[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:11",
    "text": "Alright. I think we should go ahead and get started because we have a full agenda Aaron, do you wanna go through the slides or you want me to? Yeah. You can go ahead and kick it off. Alright. So Good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening to most of us who are remote. And those who are also present In Brisbane, hopefully you're enjoying yourselves. You are in the skimworkinggroup session. Just to make sure you're in the the right room, hopefully, Most of you are familiar with the note well. So I will just leave it to you. To, to read"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "our rules of engagement, if you will, onto the next slide. Just a quick recap of the code of conduct. I don't think that's been an issue in this room, but just be respectful of everybody. Keep the discussions on topic. And not take it to a personal level. And We are always looking for volunteers, so be prepared to, to contribute And all of the work items we have. Alright. So thank you to Peter and Paul for taking note take, from taking notes. If somebody can help Watch the Zulip see if there's any other comments I'll try and do the same thing as well. And I forgot to update the meeting material since I copied it from rats. But, hopefully, you can find the skin ones instead of rats should say skin. Let's do the quick agenda bash. Next slide, please. So When we made the agenda, we didn't quite do the math correctly. So Elliot Since you were the last to speak, for 5 minutes over, so rather than giving you 15 minutes, we gave you 10. Wanted to see if that was gonna cause any issues. We have, I think, one major issue to discuss So my I I can't say that will stick to 10, but it it should be close. Okay. Well, I I will try and, Do the chairs update as quickly as I can to give you as much back as possible. If there are others who don't need as much time also please speak up. Otherwise, Yeah. I don't think we're gonna need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "full 10 minutes on SCIM events, but I could be wrong. And Phil disagree with me. can I I don't Same same for Delta query. Yeah. Okay. Awesome. So I will definitely try and keep everybody on time then. If not a minute or 2 shorter to give Elliot time back. Any other comments feedback on the agenda If not, then let me just do a quick update On the cursor pagination, So I am in the process of doing the shepherd right up I am still looking for feedback. Danny, I don't know if you're an call. Angelique, thank you for your response. I'm looking to make sure and get confirmation see if there are any IPR statements Also, to everybody who's participating I'm also looking to see what implementations Maybe out there or are planned? To be based on this draft And then lastly, I did a review So, Angelie and Danny, please come back to me If you have any questions, on the comments that provided. I'll try and reach out to you to make sure because I didn't see any responses from the the early reviews I think from Mary, I forget the other 2 reviewers. So, Angelie and Danny, I don't know if you've gotten The thumbs up on whether their comments were addressed to their satisfaction So is there something we need to take up as next steps on I those? Or Yes. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "I did provide more comments that I'd like feedback on. There were some editorial myths. There are some clar occasions I think you should make in the security considerations. So I think we I'd like to see another revision. Okay. And I'd like to make sure that that that that that that the comments from The previous reviewers We're also addressed and that they're okay with the newer drafts. Yeah. Aaron may be able to provide us some more advice here, but we we felt like we had addressed all of the previous comments, Nancy, and we thought we had followed Aaron's advice about requesting their their re review and confirmation. Okay. I didn't see any confirmations. Which is what I was looking for. Yeah. It it entirely possible we just didn't do the right things to request their confirmation. So maybe you could give us some advice about how to request their rereview and, and confirmation. Usually, it's it's just a question of reaching out to them. And you can either CC the chairs since some of them were through the records. The other thing is I can out I can reach out to them as well. Called So I will do that, but again, I gave I gave comments I don't know if it's just me. I'm hearing some feedback. Okay. So I gave comments a few days ago for which I'd like to see some of Respondative. And then we can move forward. So I think in the interest of time,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "Okay. I see Danny's commenting that he'll respond to to my comments as well. So that would be good. So The working group last call did complete. Working on it. I just wanna sure that all the feedback on the positive side from those that provided comments. And then I'll move forward with the Shepherd write up. Quick question. Roman, So congratulations on you becoming the IETF share it. Who will be our new AD, Wait. announce? Ready to Yeah. Yeah. It's gonna be dead. Alright. Congratulations then. K. Somebody. that was a That was That was at 3:30 in the morning. Yeah. I was like, oh my goodness. How should I take that? Alright. So I'll let you know, Deb, once I'm re I'm once I'm done with with the Shepherd write up. Perfect. And update we'll we'll that as well. Alright, so one minute to spare. So with that, we can move forward then to the use cases So, Pam, are you there? I am here. Alright. Do you have any slides? I don't remember seeing any I do have slides. I didn't upload them. I can also just talk to them if that's easier given we don't, you know, we don't have that much time. Would you prefer that? Go ahead and share them, and then you can upload them Afterwards? Would be good to have someone Yep. Can you do I need to be be the presenter? I don't think so. Alright. No. I think it can just take and we can give you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "I just control. might do slides and give you a lot of Yeah. K. Make sense. Hey, everybody. How jet lagged? Is everyone Not at all except it's midnight here. Oh, yeah. You know, I don't I don't see a way to get my slides in here. I'm I'm just gonna talk to it. If that's okay for everyone, Okay, can you just please upload them Later? I will. I will applaud them. I would love to have people look through them anyway. But here's the latest update on the use cases. So Paolo and I have had, many in-depth debates about how we continue forward. And I think we have actually a pretty good set of plans now. The way that this that this Draft has evolved. And as you all know, it's a long a long suffering, draft. We've been doing it for a long time. But what what we've got now is we have a set of use cases Essentially, 5 use cases that we think exercise all of the different core specifications in RCs, 76 4344, and also The new drafts, including the Delta the dynamic query draft as and cursor pagination draft as well as the events draft. So our goal with this When you take a look at the slides, what we are really trying to do is to find you know, the core specifications defines you know, the skin actions that are HTTP verbs, and triggers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "the, and, of course, the endpoints in schema. Sort of that's the those are the 4 things. What we are trying to do is put those for sets of things into a greater context of how they get used over time over and over again. And and part of that is that we think that's important for the for dynamic query as an example because dynamic query is essentially a composite pattern. Of skin actions. So, so you know, I think, Paolo, I don't know if Paolo's on the line. You may or may not be on the line. But I think what we can have is a a working I'm here. I'm here. Hey, Paolo. Anything else you wanna see? About where we are? No. Uh-uh. I think it will be important if we can get some feedback, right, on the use case, especially on well, how they are being organized, right, And, I think it even more important if we are missing something. And don't think about what is implemented today. Right? The idea is that since we are starting again from scratch, we would like for having a new use case that we are already seeing that at some point, we need to address even if we don't have the answer today, I think we need to address them as use case. The same thing that the group needs to resolve Right? Right? Right? Right. So I think we can leave it at that if it's okay for everyone. I know we have a tight schedule. So, we will upload slides. You can take a look at them. You'll see that there's a ton of time based mapping and also a bunch of sort of define these key concepts and maps that may or may be right, and we'd love that feedback. Pam, have you made so I assume this is all documented in the dressed draft draft ask him use cases. It is documented in the draft. We have one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "to upload now, the use cases themselves have been completely revamped. So that's really the the new work. Is the last time of that document? So let us know. Let the carriers know when you've uploaded the latest Update And then we can ask for reviewers because it would be useful for us to adopt something. That we can form limit. Uses a working document Okay? Okay. Perfect. Yep. We'll do that. That's definitely the next step. Great. Was that it? I think so. It's it's either this much content or we dive deep into it, and I don't not that we have time for that. Well, it's especially if you don't have the slides to walk through. Yeah. Exactly. Okay. Well, if needed, we can discuss it in the interims as well. Or in the side meetings. I should say. Also, the other piece, the the one use case that we don't know that we have down perfectly well as dynamic query. And so if we give more time to them, maybe we can ask questions in that session that are gonna help us make sure our maps are correct. Alrighty. Okay. I think with that then, Perhaps we should move on. Let's see. Fill in mic on skin events. Yep. I think Bill is on as well. Lerking some place. I'm here. Yeah. So, really, the we don't have slides I have one slide that's really I can share it if we'd like. Basically fill updated the latest draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "to kind of clarify certain things, taking out section on the delivery feeds, taking out mentions of risk signals, a couple of events that seem like we're already covered by, keep or should signals frameworks or outside events outside of Kimberdocks. So A lot of it, Phil, is it safe to say that it was A lot of it was removal. Of of things that people were finding confusing rather than the core of the draft. I've Silence is very man. Yeah. Okay. So the the latest drop is 4. It's out there up on GitHub and the right repository is it just wasn't done. We didn't make the deadline for IETF 119. I'll upload, this slide so people have the reference. After the call as well. Draft 4 is actually submitted an online note. Right. I think that's it. Unless someone has more questions. I just wanted to reflect. I I've been talking to some practitioners in the community very, very excited about what you guys have created and, eager to see it, to reach WGLC. Sounds great. Yeah. I had I had some of the same reactions. I did, to stay in the shared signals, interop it, Gartner, London a couple of weeks ago, and the idea that there was a similar"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "even if it's not as, you know, shared signals as a foundation, if it might be, we can talk about that later. The idea that Skim Events being available as well was was attractive to a lot of people as well. Hey. Thanks for the feedback, Paul. And I think That's it then. Unless there's more feedback and more questions, then. Alright. Well, I guess we see time to the chair Back. We're flying through the agenda, everybody. Good job. Hey, Mike. This is this is Dean Sachs. I'm in the queue. Yeah. I'd say it. Good for you. Quick question. Do you need additional review? I'd reviewed the the last draft do you need additional reviews to help move this draft toward working group last call. If so, let me know what you need I Good question. Well, I can't speak as a chair because I'm an author here too. So My request to Adrianne as the co chair, and the chair for this draft is said, I think we could start a working group last call on this draft. Because I think we've gotten reviews with mature of the draft. Okay. Sounds Until did you wanna say something. See you in the queue. Yeah. So I guess my question was before we go to call based on what Mike just said. Is there anything we wanna do As far as the shared signals framework is concerned, with the schemerman's draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "I think there may be There I think we might wanna hold off on last call just for for to have let people have a few more discussions around shared signals and the skimm events draft. I don't think they're in conflict, but I heard from a couple of people who wanted to give input I don't know what the process is for that. Obviously, I don't wanna do last call if there's if there's additional things that might need to be updated. One thing I noticed on that point I don't see a mention of shared signals in the draft Is that something you want to add a section on It talks about the relationship between the two. So No. I don't think I think the drop needs to focus on just defining events, and that was one of the reasons I cut out all the stuff about how to transmit it and stuff that was mainly there because the group had been idled for so long. And sec events had picked it up But now that we're finishing the end and we've we've got the last piece was the a sync event, because that does sort of go back to another part of scam protocol declared clarify that I think the set transfer specs is what it depends on Whereas as this app is about how you manage streams and do something. So it's its own thing. I have a concern that Skim servers are likely both generators and receivers at the same time. So if you can only register to receive events and you can't register to send"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "That's a worry, but I don't think that affects this draft. That's that's something else. Yeah. I mean, the you know, the push delivery and the pull delivery that you're forward to in the you know, in the draft it kind of works the same way. Right? It's like shared signals uses those same 2 things. Just defines an additional metadata on top of that. And, you know, a way to verify that the stream is alive and, you know, way to start stop past stream. So it gives you a little bit more features for managing asynchronous delivery. And that is why I thought it would be interesting to you to at least refer to or, you know, sort of, evaluate whether that's a good transport mechanism for this. Yeah. We might My thought is to avoid any notion of protocol in this draft. It's just the event definitions. Keep it clean. I think it's me. Right? Oh, yeah. Go ahead. Thanks. Thank you. So, I mean, you said you took a bunch of stuff out. I see that the picture is gone. And I I think what you're saying is that All of the stuff that was in the picture is out of the out of this version now. Right? Like, you know, if the The picture had the concept of essentially aggregators Like, it was much more of a routing type of concept that was in that transmission verbiage. And so all of all of that's gone. Is there Does that mean you're not expecting the implementers to use it that way, or you just think that they should imagine that on their own? I don't think how people choose to build their products doesn't affect interoperability. There were a lot of questions early on about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "How is this going to work? Right. And the set transfer spec explain how it's gonna work from an interoperable point of view, but but I don't think and the architecture is one possible way to architect But from a standards perspective, It doesn't seem useful to have it in there. Because it causes confusion in the sense that people they have to implement it that way, and that's not what I wanna say, I wouldn't want to Do that. I think the the key Interop is set push and pull. And after that, that's you know, there's there's a number of issues. A lot of SCIM services will be implemented as clusters. And Set can either help or be Seth can help you make the cluster work better That's my view, but it doesn't mean that people have to implement it that way. Okay. I I I appreciate that. I mean, I I think you're probably right. And I can definitely see that point of view. I guess the only question is if Everyone does it different, is it still interoperable? Would would would be the question. Like, you know, you do have to agree on how the set gets sent. That's That's what they said transfer effects do. Yep. Okay. So so you're that's enough. Just the point to point from your which And and correct me if I'm wrong at all. The the said trend for specs are kind of fulfilled in shared signals. 8936, 8935. I mean, those those provide the transport for the streams that shared in those users. And I think that referring to just those specs is okay. But if you want interoperability in the robustness, of sort of being able to manage"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "the streams, then, you know, SSL is already framework that you could use. I mean, there won't be good reasons why you don't want to do that, but know, just wanted to propose that as, like, a possibility that could actually bring the interoperability that that was sort of Great. Thank you. Thank you for answering the the questions. I wasn't sure if, you know, not saying there is a reason to problem, but I was definitely interested in your perspectives. So thank you. So, Mike, I saw you, or I heard you mention you want to have people have more discussion about relationship. Do you have any particular you're looking for Feedback On you would you are recommending holding off. Doing last call for I just wanna make sure we were clear on that discussion we just had. Is is the primary thing. I don't disagree. I mean, I think I agree with what Bill is saying. As long as it's not in conflict, you know, with something like shared signals that I think I think we're fine with it. I think I there may be 1 or 2 other people who had opinions on they were catching up to the draft, that might want input on, on changes they might want to see in it don't know how major those are, though. You think that's might be things that are acceptable changes to happen during your last call? I'm not I'm not clear enough with the with the process to know what kind of changes take place"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "at that stage or what couldn't take place at that stage. I also don't really have a handle. Clear handle on what those concerns are from some of these third parties. So I can't actually even if I did, I couldn't tell you yes or no. Very clearly. My apologies on that. Okay. I guess in that case, do you have particular people in mind that you could reach out to to solicit this feedback? And then we could. Yes. It's it's on my list. I I'll have I can schedule calls Phil, you and I and a few others will can get on the co authors as well. And resolve this pretty quickly, I think. I just wanna make sure that they're heard before we last call it. Okay. It sounds like we should wait wait. Wait. On doing the last call until we get that feedback, but let's try to let's plan on on that. As the as the plan of action then. So The last working for your last call happens on the mailing anyway. So we'll just Okay. I think we can, in that case, as long as we don't need an official IETFs. You know, in person meeting, then I think we're fine because we can resolve those is. And then it may be a kind of thing where we move really quickly to last call. On the email list once those those issues are raised and resolved. Yep. Okay. Well, that was a little more involved than I thought. Text, you know, Great. I don't see anybody else on the queue. So We can Maybe just a quick notetaker taker's request, Aaron, and Pam a tool. If you could just look through the notes there and just make sure I captured that correctly. Great. Thanks. Sure."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "Okay. Well, we are On on track on our agenda now with, So let's move on to the to Delta queries, which I believe we do have slides for. And, unfortunately, I assume you're presenting this Do you want to control the slides, or do you want me to run the sides for you. The slides from Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Next slide please. Okay. This is just a context from our previous, recap from 118, what we have worked on, what the initial, draft that we published far. We are working on Delta query. A query that is used to return incremental retrieval of resources that have been created, updated, or modified. Created, updated, or deleted, this allows for more efficient interaction between schemes client and service provider. Addresses the problem that have inhibited large scale implementation of use cases such as synchronization and entropy deduction. Next slide, please. So, after we have published a a first version, we received some feedback. And we have also been reviewing with internally, the draft and we have we are specifically working on 2 aspects simplifying and optimizing the solution further. One of the aspect is full scans related to. So the initial draft was proposing to that the Delta query also be used for doing an initial baseline and are, specifically initial delta query, the Delta token request to include return of all the resources in current state. And we have been looking at, is it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "really necessary for Delta query to return all the resources and can be decouple Delta query and and full scans. So the clients can continue to use existing APIs that are there for listing all users and groups while they use Delta query only to retrieve the changed entities or deleted created and modified entities. Simplifies, the implementation. aspect that we are looking The other is the delta query response structure? How to optimize it? Next slide, please. So from a full scan perspective, a possible flow, so we have decided on a final solution, but what we are looking at is possible flow where the skin client obtains the first delta token without doing a full scan. Scim client calls Delta query without a token. The Delta query is barns with the next delta token. But does not return all the resources as part of the query. Then as a next step, the client completes a full scan as a baseline in whatever manner they they do, either by using less APIs or any other existing mechanisms. And then once that scan is done, they use Delta query. Again. Calling it with the initial token that they received from the first step. There will be some overlaps, like, during the period they did, during the period between the the server issued them the first delta token and the time that asking client took to baseline. There might be some ads or removes that might have been already synchronized are reconciled. But and they might be returned in the next, delta token, but It is a fair, would say, trade off between simplifying the Delta query implementation and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "versus getting a few records redundant in there. So there's no miss of any records, but the the clients made a tree already recent reconcile records, which is not a security concern. The benefits in this approach is that it simplifies the delta query, scheme clients can continue to use their existing our APIs to do full scan leveraging their existing implementations and Delta weddie is an additional add on to optimize their existing, implementation either do end on tropy or to detect any changes for, synchronization Next slide, please. We are also looking at, Delta query responses so in our previous version of the draft, we had proposed to return full resource, representation for created or modified resources. However, we are looking into options to further optimize the payload. And looking into areas such as returning only modified attributes for modified resources. For created resources, return everything. All attributes for deleted resources. Just return meta information. But for modified attributes, just return. Modified attributes only. So With that in mind, we also know that not all skin implementers may be keeping track of modified attributes So we want to make sure that the solution that we come up for response payload caters to both kind of implement implementers while it's still effective and interoperable, for scheme clients to work with different implementers and not have to manage 2 different implementations. So With that in mind, we have, put together a few goals"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "so that this drives us while we are defining a solution. So the approach that we come up with is adoptable by escape server sourcing data from common databases, data sources. Efficient at large scale. So we don't want to return unnecessary information, if it is not needed. And it is efficient for clients to understand response from server needed to build and entropy logic. Some of the challenge definitely in coming up with the responses what is this response schema that caters to all these 3 types of, 4 types of, responses like returning all attributes for a created resources return nothing for deleted and for modified and return modified attributes only. It's easy to handle single value attributes, but with multiple value multivalued attributes, the challenges become more. We need a qualifier, additional to say, but then it's modified or it's, it's basically added or removed. So we are looking into that. So at this point in time, these are the 2, big problems that we are working on. And hopefully, in our next revision, we would have a solution for it And, That should be so. Next slide, please. So if you are interested in this, work, please reach out to us through PRs issues or Either we are mailing list we can collaborate on it and come up with a solution that works for all Thank you. Questions. You have Pam on the queue? Hello. Hello. Can I ask on the full scan slide don't know if you wanna go back to it or not? I mean, the first step was requesting the token without requesting any actual, objects"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "or performing it, I get what what I mean, it it says on the right that it's more efficient. Why exactly is it more efficient. Like, would it isn't that an extra hop? No. So we're not thinking from efficiency perspective, but it's simplifying the delta for logic and keeping the concerns separated. So in order to re do full scans, what does the client need They need to retrieve all resources that are there with their current state. And SCIM already provides those APIs. In the form of get users and get groups. So what we are saying is the skin clients can continue to leverage those APIs. To retrieve, all records to do their initial baseline or reconciliation. And do not have to switch to Delta query to achieve that. And from Delta queries perspective, they just need an initial token. To to to to represent the time that that at which they see that they have, done a post scan. So doing it before their full scan just covers any records that might have been updated or created or deleted. Any modifications that have happened during the full scan itself while the client is doing a full scan and base lining. So that's that's how it And it is a guidance for a SCIM client implementers. But from a specification perspective, what we are focusing on is Delta query to be able to return an initial token. And then subsequently, when a token is provided, it will return modified on created, updated, or deleted entities. Okay. So what is the actual mechanism are you saying that there's a different endpoint that you're having to fetch that token from? And the reason I asked is I had just assumed that the request for the Delta token would be a query parameter,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "and therefore wouldn't interest be already assisting us. Yeah. We haven't utilize the solution. So these are our high level thoughts. And just sharing on those. But with further details, I think we will have to wait till we have next version of spec out Okay. Sounds great. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Any other comments or questions? We will at some point need people to review this draft to by my Yeah. And, Angela, I presume you'll you'll be doing Implementations of this as well. As we move this forward Yeah. Okay. Alright. Okay. Thank you. Elliot, Alright. Oh, you've got my slides right now, yes. In our initiating number. Okay. Great. Yep. Alright. Hi, everybody. a SCIM device model. We recently posted an update to this. And I'll talk a little bit about the changes. We're on dash 0 3. And, there will be a dash 0 4. We know this already. Next slide, please. Okay. So just to recap, this is, really a reversal, the the normal skin flow where instead of enterprises going out partners come in. And the partner, by the way, might be, like, an app, or it might be direct connectivity, but the it's still all SCIM operations. The module is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "modular. So you can add what you wanna add. I'm gonna talk more about just how modular in a moment because we've learned some stuff. There are, some new models that been pondering. One of them has actually been added. Actually, a couple have been added, and I'll talk a little bit about that. The next slide. This is relevant when we're talking about non IP device is to drop brinkman, Nipsey, which was presented in ASDF and is being discussed there, because it allows for a provisioning and control of on IOT devices. Next slide, please. Okay. So a couple of changes. From IETL of 118. First of all, as threatened, I've worked with, Jeff Cooper, and we've not only have we inserted the FBO model what we've in in the in the draft, we've actually implemented it in the open source. And we did this also with the ethernet map draft because they it seems like they go together well. And so I'll ethernet map is just a very crude on on even in the draft, it says I think I might use the term pseudo authentication. But it's it's what a lot of IOT people still use. It's it's not pretty It's sort of the bare minimum, but, it's it it allows for bootstrapping. Of stronger trust. We added an INA consideration section. That having been said, anybody who's been following the mailing list over the last, I don't know, half hour. We'll note that Monty came back. Monty and I have been having a pretty good back and forth about how to improve that in a consideration section. And, I'd like to we need to we need to put that in extensions. There were a lot of editorials just, you know, we have a,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "document that was written by non English speaker. He's actually pretty good in his English, but there were a couple of areas where where I think the language did need to be smooth and actually still need to be smooth, but I've got editor eyes at this point, meaning I've looked at it too long. That I'm seeing through I'm seeing right through some of the issues. So I need help in that regard. Next slide. So one of the things we noticed when implementing FTO was that we were provisioning 2 types of things. With this draft. The first was, provisioning a mechanism them for the device, not only to provide for, an ownership transfer process. But also and that is really about provisioning the device a little bit more than we had anticipated with Skim. And this might go to some of Danny's comments from 117. But we were also doing a network provisioning operation in terms of provisioning the network so these actually so so for instance, FTO might an FGO provision might lead to, you know, various for device operations that makes a device look and feel like it's supposed to look after FDO provisioning occurs. Whereas, most of the models that we have deployed and implemented look a lot more like just getting the things network network network network network. Is slightly too too slightly different things. But they work very well complimentary in in with with SCIM extensions. Next slide, please. Alright. So, there are a couple of big issues remaining, Anna. Been pointed out to me that there are actually more then they're on on this slide. So, We had a request in 117 to handle non IoT device provisioning. If if People are interested. I'm gonna say that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "clock is running at this point because we've been waiting for a real proposal. For that for now 6 months, and it's really time to to Move on. I wanna talk a bit about versioning. And this gets to the another point that Monty when we should take the 2 of these, perhaps, versioning and extensibility together. Initially, Hassan put out a a versioning approach, which had numeric ver separate numeric versioning. Actually wondering if that's too complex and that really what we should have in terms of extensibility is either you're implementing the current if you will, extension, or you're implementing another extension, just give it another name. And that actually simplifies versioning in in one way or another, but we really need some input on that. Also, if we wanna do other models, probably now is the time And there are a couple that I that I think we've been discussing. One of which is TCG, which Monty has mentioned, another of which that I've been pondering is RFC 8995 vouchers. Which is something that would be easily easy enough, but there's a an interesting aspect here, which is we shouldn't just throw things Willie Nilly unless we understand the coding implications in terms of what's gonna happen on the SCIM server side. So for instance, if we're talking about animal, What does it mean to pass a voucher to, a an animal skin survey, it would mean that we we we would be shortening a transaction probably using a append voucher in which you don't what, what it would mean is that wouldn't have to have asynchronous communication, to the server as 89 defines at the master server. So, that's something Michael Rich and you might be interested in in in pondering at least. There were a couple other things that I think are also not on this slide that we need to cover."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "In terms of Paolo's work with Pam, we probably could stand a terminology shake down and would would really like to to see, you know, any changes that people think are important there. I also think it's probably a good idea to kick off an an early review for security. Anytime we're talking about anything in SCIM, that's probably a good idea. And, yeah, that's about those are the sorts of things that that I think need to do. So immediately after this this meeting and we're we're shortly thereafter at least, I'll be getting with Monty to try and sort those, those middle 2 bullets Danny and friends, if you really have anything you wanna do with non IoT vice provisioning, Can can I ask you to sort of move on with that. And then we'll we should talk about additional Next slide, please. Okay. So I covered a bunch of these the only other thing is what I'm hoping to do from a timing perspective is get all of these issues resolved. And there are a couple of small issues in the in the issue tracker there that have to be addressed. In the next month or so so that the draft is stable enough to get the last call in May. So that is my hope. And that's it. Comments questions, Go ahead then. Sorry. I feel like I'm the only one saying anything. I hope I'm not you know, dominating too much. I apologize if I am. But I do have so So, two comments. One is we definitely would love to collaborate with you on the terminology shutdown. I think that would be amazing. The the second one is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Kind of a a just a t a technical note. If you, like, RFC well, I think it's 7644 defines /usersandand/groups. As the rest endpoint, And this one is slash device. And that gives me heartburn. Just the plurality of it, not matching slash users. So if you're gonna do a list on slash devices, I I you've probably heard this before. Right? Okay. That's actually Panamax fixed. easily Have no problem with that. Okay. Thank you. The the the concern of the draft. I'd uh-uh, it's not my biggest concern. Let me but it's easily fixed, and I'm happy to to correct it. Okay great. Thank you. The only the second one, if I actually want to use in line. I'll I'll my head to begin No. Go No. ahead. Oh, okay. Yeah, I thought we'd meet it in person. It sounds like we come to an agreement over over the list. So, yeah, it I'm not sure how you wanna handle this if we just, you and I meet or if you have a regular phone call, But, The yeah. Yeah. Touch. Basically, it sounds like you and I are in agreement already. On how to proceed with this. Just have to find out how to do Yeah. Uh-uh. I I expect that it should take Probably, like, a phone call. And then we'll be done. Yeah. Well, like I said, that we just came from lamps and we have a very similar problem. Where we've got lots of these devices that all very different ways. Of, providing at the station of themselves at the station of he, We didn't want a hard code. Every possible way into the RFC So what we did is We took what you what's in section 7 right now and made it an appendix. And then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "have a re an eye and a registry of all of these different methods. That way you're a 100% extensible. You don't have anything in normative text. Right. It's only an example in formative tax. And then, I brought people to go Check out her hackathon, for how to do this the at the station, So this is already basically proven how we could do it. So that's what I would propose. And, you know, we can certainly have that discussion. Okay. I mean, I think the only issue is, Whether what what I would just say is We should talk through The What is needed for an in for Niana entry I think is needed is a specification that covers a handful of things, and we can talk through that. Yeah. And check the Honnesses, just walking over, IANA, to actually discuss what we're doing it would be the exact same model that we're doing here. Yeah. The biggest issue that I really need feedback on is versioning of the extensions themselves. We talked about it once There was a proposal out there. I myself am uncomfortable with it because they're too many versions, it would lead to lots of version strings inside the And so if people have thoughts about that, I think now is the time. Otherwise, my proposal will be just to simplify that. Through the registration process just to name the, you know, if if somebody's gonna do another version, it's It should be viewed completely different as the previous extension. It it's just a different extension. Yeah. And and what I'm thinking of is you don't even need that in the spec. That's their problem. To go deal with and then they get go deal with this. You can take whole bullet them that and just go away. Right. So it's not like we're you know, violent agreement with in a, let's talk about it and So we can line this up fixed. we can Sounds good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "Okay. And just one other comment while, if if somebody else has anything else say it's great. But the other comment would be, I'd like to invite Anybody who wants to to sort of contribute to the open source for this especially if you wanna implement Like, I'm in the process of doing some more refactoring on that code, but over the next couple of weeks, it's really gonna stabilize nicely. Initially, the code base there was very BLE focus and I'm trying to just sort of So you know, get that into a a way that it it it it's far more compartmentalize, you know, and and and I think that's in in process. But beyond that, and as much as people would like, right, or, you know, if you wanna implement paid pagination or anything else in the open source We could use, well coderswanted. Ham was still on the queue, by the way. Oh, sorry. it. That's okay. I can't see So One other thing I have you got a liaison in the photo lines for FTO? You working through? Officially through those 2 standards bodies, or Not officially. I mean, it Jeff and I were spending, I don't know, meeting. We were meeting once or twice a week. To try and get it done. Okay. That's that's great. I the only reason I ask because I believe there's a new coordinator that's been brought on board specifically for for onboarding. So I will make that connection if that if you haven't already connected with them. Right. And I let me just say what we've done so that it's clear. Right. The What is being passed at this point It is an FTO voucher. Through the skin provisioning system. And that then in turn gets passed to the ownership process. The owner process in FDO so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "essentially it's it's you don't have to deal with email, which I think is one of the organisms that they talk about and you you just you just hand this thing to the owner process. And rendezvous continues as Ronezvous did and all those other things happen as they did. This is just an efficiency step to pass the voucher into the enterprise. Okay. Great. Thank you. And if there are other object needed, by the way. Now is a really good time to hear that. Yeah. And I'll be the liaison for the TCG stuff. As well as working on this other stuff. Oh, very good. So, Elliot, did I hear you then request for an early security review. Is that the only review? Okay. So now My next question It sounded like you were still updating the draft. Should I wait? Yeah. My suggestion is give it 2 weeks or so, hopefully by then, Monty and I can have had the discussion. And I will I have a bunch of editorials to update I wanna clean up the I I wanna do one more pass on those security considerations, but we're passing credentials here. So absolutely, I want a security area review so that we can hear you know, from, from people who are horrified by that concept. until I see a new draft post in? Or you remind me. And we'll, Okay? Will ask you for that. Oh, and I just wanna there is something on this slide I wanna comment on. Matter has become quite popular in the enterprise, it's not quite there. And, So I don't know that matter will make the cut. It will probably be an extension that we get to as matter and enterprise come together a little bit faster."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "I'm not sure I understood that comment. I think. Okay. What I'm at is I don't think we'll get some matter in this draft. Because it's there we don't know what to provision yet. Right? So we don't know what the objects should be. And that's because matters enterprise notions haven't, matured yet but they're in I did not realize that. I mean, they're fine for consumer. Right? It's just for this use case for where you would probably use skin. They may need they may need additional objects for the enterprise. It may not. We don't know yet. And until we do, Right? We shouldn't bother trying to just guess an extension. Or you could be you actually have to have code behind it. And So we'll do that later. Okay. Yeah. No. My my comment was more to I wasn't clear to me that matters Charter, was enterprise. They're very consumer focused. Yeah. I think they'll stretch for for for enterprise later is the is the point Got it. Okay. Any other comments or questions on this draft that and thanks for giving me the extra time. Well, thank thank everybody else, and and I apologize if I rush everybody, but it seems like without slides, things just kinda went quicker. Okay. So when you're ready, we'll do the early review I'll also look to see, and then I'll I'll look to you Elliot to tell me when you think it's mature enough. To do because you mentioned May. Right? Working with last call. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "I will wait for you to to complete that indication. Okay. So we are at the end of our agenda and We are out of time So I think with that, I will thank everybody special thanks to Peter and Paul. For taking nuts And, we will continue the discussions on the mail list and our ongoing sessions, meanings, Thank you everyone. And thank you, Ned. Thank you, Nancy."
  }
]
