[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] it\u0027s actually time I given close the door and you can see if you can see Gregor so it\u0027s obviously something with the brakes here in Bangkok people are very very reluctant to leave them and come to the meetings so if we are quick about it we can take a lot of decisions now and then go and do something else yeah I was about to say that we have something out here here to share that has nothing to say we want to start the only problem with that is that the first presenter is Greg and he\u0027s far far as I see not in the room can someone like Martin help us to to find him I have one further comment I presented a long list of sleeping beauties at the last meeting at the meeting yesterday I have got some response I want more are given to send the list out in the mail so you can review it and see if you have anything there it\u0027s actually I look at the list and now and then and see that there are things that I think we done right there offering in there that I think we done wrong and there are documents that actually would like to progress even if they do four years old so no Greg who\u0027s next Oh Greg run I\u0027ve been that all morning "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:53",
    "text": "good morning thank you for the patience so as you can see from the draft short name its om for SRM Phyllis over IP or over UDP so what\u0027s in scope scope it\u0027s a fault management on demand for detection localization characterization proactive monitoring path continuity and performance monitoring delay measurement and packet loss measurement fault management so we have RFC 8287 which explains applicability of LSB ping for asar MPLS and the pretty nicely describes ping and traceroute over SR MPLS and works asaram LS over IP seamlessly drag nurse key spring PFD also describes a applicability of BFD over LS LS pianist Toronto as the main and again there is no issues to use it for a syrup the LS over IP both documents so RFC 8287 uses recommendation for 88 in Hein IP UDP encapsulation if someone is looking for non IP encapsulation then there is an issue with the preserving source ID source ID can be preserved using IP address Tildy proposed in draft that discusses MPLS applicability of point to multi-point BFD performance monitoring RFC 63 74 packet was and delay measurement in MPLS networks is entirely applicable to SRM TLS and there is no issues using it in a serum pls over IP so the conclusion is that existing Orion mechanisms in MPLS networks they work in a sarong POS with very minor extension "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:53",
    "text": "that doesn\u0027t require really a separate specification but there are some other issues interesting issues coming from the fact that when we\u0027re doing SRM POS / AP we\u0027re creating multi segment tunnels and with multi segment tunnels if we lose identity of the source then there might be some interesting issues that I\u0027m planning to explore and see what happens then I discussed with the one of the offers of SR MPLS over IP whether there is a reason to have a separate document or Abbott as a section in SR Intel s over IP document but suggestion was that since this document is mature in close to the working group quo so probably it\u0027s not a good idea just to merge anything in and restart the discussion if anything that will be of substance in this document it can proceed as a separate document so for now welcome questions comments participation contributions yes please I just have only one comment for SR MPLS or SR in general they\u0027ve also SP FTP solution for Esther policy and that also works as is yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s a very common thing is a far I\u0027ll add this reference and in the document so that it works seamlessly yes I agree okay thank you next is so far thank you thank you so this is okay we have to get a new set of slides they have updated them and we haven\u0027t really uploaded thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:07",
    "text": "thank you that\u0027s good yeah this is thank you thank you much so this is a word that we started for extension of MPLS LS beeping and and for SR SR MPLS based LS piece I\u0027m going to present it on behalf of my quarters so the main thing is that initially our 382 880 287 was defined factoids for to be using SR angeles network for prefix it n agency said and they were related procedures that are fully defined there this draft addresses some factoids there are not address in the base RFC 80 to 87 specifically the base as he doesn\u0027t talk about bgp prefix exact so we added a statement for that bgp epe CID incidentally like us found this gap as well as Shraddha who presented this yesterday in NK s working group found the gap as fall so there are two drafts that talks about VP EPP that type for BGP EPE sites and as I go I would go to just to highlight some differences but there is some discussion going on with the sugar for cooperating on that and then last but not least is the binding set so the so that\u0027s the problem statement here so for the BGP prefix said there is basically no need to define a new fact type we can use existing FAQ and just define that we can use existing factor this is just maybe clarification a statement because implementations are already using this implicitly so I think this should be a non-issue then the second one is the BGP for EPE so EP has three different type of set one is the pair node set and then you have their agency said and then you have a pair succeeds so that is define the EP be TPP draft now here this is an encoding for the FAQ for btp EP we are notes it here the information you find would be very similar to what red represented yesterday with the in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:07",
    "text": "procedure there is certain changes and that basically we also try to highlight or address the case where when you go to the neighbor of the BGP EP the the node that is I wrote I think the big appease it and you go to neighbor of it and that neighbor may not have because the different yes it may not have a route back to the source or it may not be even an MPLS router so in these cases the neighbor cannot respond to this request and then we put some consideration that I will go at the end of the talk so this is something that were different from the drafts that represented yesterday on the APB\u0027s it and the other thing is also that what we notice is some time because this is a peer node said it is possible that the ingress was trying to validate this peer nodes said may not know the interface addresses it may or may not know so that\u0027s where the I flag is set to say that interface addresses to be nolde because the peer the sender may not know that and that\u0027s what not there in the encoding that was pregnant just to reassure them but minor difference and then the same thing with respect to the BGP peer agencies it is there is no need for that flag here because this is a chance he said so you know the interface for sure so you notice that there is no I flag in this case but in terms of whether where you go to the PR agency the problem is still remains there the pier agency the BGP Pier mean maybe an IP router or may not have a route back to the source and then last is the BGP peer sets it so we had discussion just during last two hours in a spring working group with the shredder what mike and she agreed that when we have the pier we\u0027re set said we need to basically we we have the local information that the the node that is advertising this pair we\u0027re set set is the same entity it\u0027s the node so the we don\u0027t have to repeat the local IDs local our ID and the local yes in in and being coding again and again so what here is done is that is through defining these sub TLV which which are actually encoding same way as as previously encoded for the pair agency or as pair node those can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:11",
    "text": "carried for all the member that are part of this set but these member may be in a different s so this is where this encoding can take care of that because there is no one pair digit all the peer doesn\u0027t have to be in the same in the same remote yes so that is that is addressed here as well so the encoding straightforward and is almost similar always close to shelter draft then second or another sip type that we were addressing was the bindings it so bindings it represents some interesting problem because or or interesting question which happen to be similar to question that you will face if you have EPC then you go to a router which is non MPLS so we made sweep and then here is solution by the same but the portion is that if you want to validate the path the binding said and if you said packet with the binding seat then you\u0027re going to get switched it\u0027s a tunnel and the end point the LSP will appear as IP at the node which is a last set of the binding set so here we try to address that a way that we can get to the head end and just try to validate from that heaven that do you have this binding set and the bindings is identified by had an address color and the end point so basically the procedure wise we say that if you just want to validate the binding said and you don\u0027t want the packet to be switched to the egress of the binding set then you can set it a loved one and this is something is is there in the base RSC\u0027s are loud is used so that packet doesn\u0027t get switched the inner mode label packets set to one is mentioned but what is not mentioned is that the fact validation so in this procedure wide what we\u0027ll be saying is that when node receives this binding said and TTL is set to one they very clearly validate that that do I have again this label or binding said do I have a corresponding control pin state that matching my head and outer ID my the color and the end point in the fact that\u0027s what is the rasa sayang and then we can do the same thing when we know that the neighbor of EPE note if the neighbor of the EP in order the IP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:11",
    "text": "neighbor or doesn\u0027t have route to the source then we can terminate that on the polarity madhawk by setting the TTL value to one and the fact validation would just be basically checking that if that particular set is a local set any that I so with that would like to get your feedback we actually was not sure whether this work will happen in spring or or in MPLS working group and this writes some it for the spring since right so this would be really up to the chairs to decide where they help the way the work we go and the second point is that we are talking with each other on on the other draft on calibrating so I think at the moment may be best tested we get the comments on the list and then asked shares what they what is their opinion that\u0027s a given that we agree if we agree would you go ahead and adopt the work or any like any guidance if you can provide so can I ask who s register aft almost a handful the I have a couple of question can you go back to the first definition of the theory first one well anyone would actually do but this is the prefix if this is the ignition key to you have four or six in octaves or we go to the interface that you have with the and then the interface that you would have with your VDP egress fear could be a ipv4 interface or ipv6 I understand how do you know which one it is I hope the answer is obvious I mean that\u0027s something that the center if sender knows then it puts therefore the note said and it if it is a know then it put the I flack that I don\u0027t know the address so because this is a I mean really the FAQ is really pure node so it should go to this to the correct node I mean from a fact definition point of view it needs to land on the correct so that\u0027s where the ie flag will be set the I\u0027ll flood flag indicates whether it\u0027s in for octet or 6 no no the I\u0027ll flag says that whether it is to be ignored or to be considered but I think your point is different you are saying that how do I know that whether this is the 4 or or 6 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:12",
    "text": "and that could be done by the LAN or we can put something exquisite hide assembly EFT type at a f-type would say yeah you had a may in one of the slides and you go tada yeah so for the so we have no I unpack it and we say it may not be leaked out of the Duma domain I thought that there is a kind of a general that the way impact it must not be leaked out of the oral domain yeah I would like you to consider it what you should have here a insured or must the sanguine s could contain no further questions for me anyone else so we should coordinate with the spring chairs and see where this work goes so I have a feeling I know where it will go but we should make a decision on that and okay thank you thank you thank you and next is Parsi hello everyone children from Hawaii I present about if he and the SVG protocol extension for Pia okay the two draft has been updated to zero one way she addressed the comments received from ITF Oh 1:01 about MVP and also allow the comments be a working group they say the Leo defined the FEC we all needed to overlay change so I will also have some have some considerations on this okay okay make before break it\u0027s a strong requirement "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:14",
    "text": "for Marcus the k2 game the MVP in my cast we can we can review about this we need a very Konami clean changing on there on the incoming interface for example post P my mom and I\u0027m LDP use this technology to support MDF but idea PHP based appear we have revealed about this it\u0027s difficult it may be difficult to support and BB because PR don\u0027t don\u0027t use RPF or upstream check mechanism and one pfr it\u0027s a responsible for staring at many downstream be fer and the different 9 cards may be responsible for different downstream behavior so it\u0027s it may be difficult to tow and one short change and through different language but it is seem to be a fairly easy for P 2 and P LS v based appear because the already defined the mechanism it\u0027s useful for building P 2 and P LS he justa with eco extension always be away the create who the am/pm he MVP is that a router allocated different levels for different absolutely interfaces to the same pmpf you see ah so the MPP seem to be a significant benefit of this solution and also one possible impact a change of forward impede mask need to be knowing through the path to the root so the convergence may be slower than the normal Peter MPSP another probe problem this is from be a walking group they say we defined a lil FEC so we have to change our PDPA a median PTP American protocol because a little Leo type of FEC you can say in the future PTP as I PMS Iowa as p.m. SAT route needed to carry the FEC if we define value obviously then we\u0027ll need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:14",
    "text": "change at the bill attribute in P DP so how about using existing PDF you see I think it\u0027s possible and the here when is the message the message for example T centered the met him message to see with the label 400 and also a Pho a with label 401 this label is for is for Pia set set at 0 and the label 484 the inclusive are inclusive P to impede hollow also F sender to see years a little P and the season that would be business way we can say this will build totally for P 2 and P 3 1 it\u0027s for the inclusive would P 2 and P and well that other sway is for every PS set for example PF RIT one is the UNICEF 0pf RIT 257 is the set to use instead of one and the PF RIT 513 if you set a set to then we have a 3 P 2 ampere OSP for them separately this is the Peter he pays the PFOA team and we can say that the special is is is this the label is pulse P 2 and P and P a label so this can be changed hoho just add the p2 and p4 deal and another important it\u0027s the bitstream carried in the PA header can be unchangeable also can be changed but this capability of unchanging the bitstream it\u0027s important to bypass if this loader don\u0027t have the ability to pass the period appeals dream then it can bypass this packet to the next to the downstream router so this is the forwarding and the encapsulation summary "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:15",
    "text": "we believe that it\u0027s a simple way to introduce peer in the current PTM heat deployment for at least the following reasons why is make before break i TPPA may be very difficult to support and the 2nd 8th March is peer deployment because if we want to deploy peer mr tas then we need to change our SPF eius eius phobia while I\u0027m out if he it\u0027s the protocol independent and the recursive AVC high easily reaches the root i p occurs in any area yes and the secondary is the papacy so many effort has been throwing into the bypassing of some peer incapable daughters and turns out to be very complex and the side effect but this simple way only needed to extend the MLT p and the way leverages are already supported the PDMP fall ready so let\u0027s step where we or updates the amount of GPA expansion using the original PDMP AVC instead of a lil a few CPAP and updated the beauty of a Academy and also way we plan to add the PLT of a used with recursive FEC for building in Terraria p2 and PSP with beer so that\u0027s it any comments hi torik Francisco so my question is we are signalling AP to MPLS fee for every tree here right yeah I think this is what you\u0027re presenting it\u0027s not clear how or what how this compares to the existing v2 MPLS fees signaling is it better or is it equal what are the advantages you\u0027re bringing in that\u0027s one and the other thing is I sent an email or on the alias and I think you responded but it wasn\u0027t clear your response the architectures there\u0027s states that we shouldn\u0027t creating states control plane states when we are following this multicast tree in the core and you are creating States in this case yes so not sure what how is it not violating or violating that assumption "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:16",
    "text": "okay thank you the first vesicles hear about compare corporation of this solution and the this resolution I think the LePage have for some summarized this this point and for the second question about for the second question about whether this solution violate the pier architecture because there is some describe a description in beer or say or Beatrice that piya doesn\u0027t need any to a building protocol but but it it is not a constraint I\u0027m here it is not a submission that pierre-pierre want to appear Peter I\u0027m here or something also there is the text in the pier architecture RC said it aloud ran pier over some mark has the specific tree the question is only that the magic has the specific tree it\u0027s built by about if he or by ITP I did here of course it\u0027s possible but ml DP it\u0027s also I existing existing protocol that easy to be reused so summary I don\u0027t think it valid any of the pier architecture Tony P juniper so architectural site human rationalizations are wonderful mechanism this goes pretty far one of the major reasons that beer happened was that we wanted to get pin and ml DP out of the network\u0027s well customers wanted so if you now introduce an OTP to run beer to get the rate of ml DP you ended up in a pretty indefensible spot but you know good luck okay thank you any other questions so last but not least curated and kiryat "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:20",
    "text": "is actually talking about a set of drafts that is not entirely within the ambulance working group on resilient MPLS rings the reason I asked created to do this is that we will need to do some type of coordination work in the working group chairs okay yeah so yeah there are armored grafts have now been spread over a few working groups the base draft is in MPLS there\u0027s some other drafts in MPLS where there some drafts in T\u0027s and there are some drafts in there\u0027s one draft in spring and these are also a draft that\u0027s missing that I\u0027ll talk about at the end but these are the things that we want to make sure we have the right allocation and that that\u0027s why we want to keep them and LU at the back of the room is smiling away so whoops so we have the base and that\u0027s almost ready for a working group last call there were some comments on the list that have been addressed there is one small change that I want to make here which is the set of supported signaling protocols for this has right now LDP and rsvp-te it doesn\u0027t have is a place for spring I understand the spring is not a signaling protocol but it\u0027s a way of creating LSPs and we want to add that to this before we progress this to working group last well the LDP extension graft is pretty much ready and there were several comments from the list and I\u0027m not going to go through the idea I mean hopefully you know what that is but the basic idea for all of these drafts is that you create these two counter-rotating recipes and then you use the other direction in case the direction that you\u0027re going in doesn\u0027t work so the LDP draft became a working group document in july all the MPs are key comments have been addressed the diagrams have been connected corrected and so there\u0027s a new version out and so the next steps I can draw others is that this already for working group last fall we believe this is the right place for this this is the only place where we do LD be so that at least is easy there\u0027s a couple of drafts in peas the arm our RSVP extension and that\u0027s a working of document and keys there is Jeffrey\u0027s document which is proposal for how to do point-to-multipoint with RM are using our recipe signaling we believe that that should be in keys "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:21",
    "text": "we\u0027re open to you know arm wrestling between the chairs but that\u0027s where we think it should be comments and not really a comment is just what we lack is just a decision okay and yeah I think kind of it we will give you a good tease you\u0027re okay with that power okay thank you so let the notes but the minute state that power is fine with that then there\u0027s the Audemars graphs that are individual documents the Jeffries draft on how the multi-cut should work in general zero zero version was presented last right if there\u0027s some feedback and they still have to be incorporated so they will be in the next version at which point and the author\u0027s was request that it becomes a working document so right now it\u0027s individual and that stays in MPLS so do you see any reason to actually make this a working group document before we go to work and applause call with the LDP draft they\u0027re independent this is multicast lgp is unicast and then of course the last draft that we have in the system is very new drafts that\u0027s in spring it was presented for the first time it was unfortunately a little hastily written but so there\u0027s definitely a lot of work that needs to be done we think that it should belong in spring but again you know we have bruno here we have Rob everyone\u0027s pointing in the other direction that\u0027s fine so do we think this should be in spring I\u0027m not clear yet but I think we should discuss it between the shares okay um it\u0027s it\u0027s not I haven\u0027t don\u0027t have a strong feeling either way we know the comes in co-chair sauce craft has been presented this morning so it\u0027s very early no discussion of the draft so it\u0027s very very early the graphic and inventory change it\u0027s not great rank where I don\u0027t think we are at the time of working production but so far I don\u0027t see any impetus extension and I think it\u0027s Menace premium yeah in fact I should be honest the reason I don\u0027t have an opinion yet I haven\u0027t read the draft yet and it was not in the spring work group this morning so I need time to read and then I probably will save spring but okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:21",
    "text": "let\u0027s postpone the decision for the oh one draft 0:01 version I\u0027ll keep the name as spring for now I\u0027m happy to change it after that the old one version will probably have some changes in terms of new seed types in which case it does become a spring draft yeah yeah okay so that\u0027s the current status of the drafts that we have in the system there\u0027s one draft that should be in the system that isn\u0027t which is a draft in lake state routing that says what\u0027s exact here we formats and procedures so that you can you know define a ring and have everyone agree on what the direction what\u0027s clockwise and anti-clockwise and so on so the general format of this is is in the base draft in MPLS with the specifics for ISS and OSPF should be should be documented and of course they need to throw things at me and maybe at MPLS so it\u0027s a question i mean that draft needs to be there what should we do in terms of timing do we want that draft to progress simultaneously with the base draft does the base draft can it point to this as informative so my answer to that question and there might be other answers from other working group shares but the thing is I don\u0027t want to lock step okay no requirement but I want them to progress as close to as possible or reasonable maybe yeah okay yeah so um there\u0027s not a whole lot to do there except to write it down but yes before the next IETF right so that\u0027s basically the set of documents so we have the base document in MPLS and a few other argument documents in MPLS a couple of documents in T\u0027s one and spring and then one analysis okay questions to hear Utley people are hungry okay yeah okay they go around for food as soon as you close me yeah I have one thing one more thing the aura or LDP extensions are as curator said almost ready for working group last call I think it\u0027s a little bit premature I would like to see some more discussion on that so please go home read the draft comment on the list and hopefully we can do for a working group last call after draw yeah okay I will also pop some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:21",
    "text": "torch to start the conversation yeah okay and Dan I\u0027m happy you\u0027re shaking your head because I don\u0027t want negative comments on the pathways okay so and then for the Audemars I will do one more the base drops I\u0027ll do one more version and then we should be ready to go for that that one as well okay thank you thank you yeah any comments on this from the spring and teas working group shares or something we missed so Pawan shakings head I don\u0027t see Bruno yogi oh you\u0027re okay with us as this okay I think this was the last presentation for today and for the mpls in in Bangkok see you all in Prague safety of settlement safe trips to Prague and have a good time and review our drafts thank you I have one more thing blue sheets can you pass them forward you "
  }
]