[
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:10",
    "text": "hello rard and Michael welcome uh being for past uh we can start the meeting so uh welcome to this Cor in three meeting the last before it19 this is marcoa mesar and K Borman and of course the not will uh applies uh you are very familiar with that uh IPR IPR applies or IPR M applies uh as well as AR cont that so be nice with one another and the agenda for today where we are also taking notes uh Link in the chat um is mostly about the point that Christian raised uh on the mailing list on the alpn registration and a few points followed right after that mail on a resubmission on attacks uh on Co-op uh with comments from John on the main list including an open point that we can uh bring up again today uh on the raise awareness uh line and ongoing discussion that also Ken brought up on the maing list uh on mdns for not Discovery and then an early mentioning on a possible um schedule for the interim meetings uh after ff19 uh I think it will be relatively a short meeting but there's time to cover any more topics uh do you have any more topics to propose for today none uh let's start with Christian then and I think you don't have slides right uh no I don't have slides uh this is essentially just a plug for the for for the mail on the list um stating that um Michel calendar says um this this evening um another says tomorrow evening but soonish um I will ask the TLs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "experts to assign an alpn for cob or dtls uh this was not done in in RFC 7252 because alpn were didn't exist back then they were kind of two month is between Publications um it would have made sense then um Co over TCP did it and specified when to use the alpn uh the registration that I'm proposing here would not change kind of it can't because it's just registration change anything about how it's used in the protocol uh but it is helpful for things such as advertising DNS uh ad advertising uh DNS over co-ops servers and basically fits with the whole svcb record business um that has become popular in the meantime um I'll be requesting something essentially as an individual um which works with the registration I be asking that 7252 is the specification for that which doesn't say that it's used in the protocol which is fine in a sense and then let's see what the experts do but ideally this should be a simple registration Michael has already made a few comments on the list thanks for that and um yeah if anything comes up please um either say something now or at least tell me that you still want to read it and then we'll send a mail so that I delay this a bit further otherwise I'll do that either tomor either today or tomorrow I've gone through your proposed text on the main list looks fine as is [Laughter] honestly does anyone else have more comments from Christian on this registration no so I think you can just go ahead thanks for starting this okay uh on next topic uh well in a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "sense it's also about Christian as author of this uh document there was a recent resubmission that in itself uh looks a little more than editorial it was U minor clarifications on the abstract requested by m I think um but in his mail John raised um again that point uh related to this draft that we were supposed to address um somehow somewhere um on a possible fix on the use of blockwise and request tag that um Christian and John shalow presented and discussed again uh in an inter meeting last year so you can find in the notes a number of pointers related to that um so if I remember correctly Christian had in mind uh possibly to start a short dedicated document about that um at least I'm know where um it's it's been written partially anywhere or so uh but an alternative uh can actually be taking this item as part on the broader work on Cor CL uh Christian I think you were yeah I I I haven't managed to make any progress there so basically it is in the state that it was uh in in around August okay what about considering cor clar for this oh work F me your audio cut very short Christian I guess said works fine for me yes exactly okay thanks K yeah I just wanted to point out I I submitted uh KLA again a couple of hours ago um mostly because it would have expired otherwise um but also to refresh my my brain on what needs to be done to uh address one of the the discussion items um so I took an verified R report to to make life as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "easy as possible for me uh and wrote a new section there and um I think we need to do this for all erata reports and we need to do this for all 25 plus issues that are in the GitHub uh repo um so this one was pretty much a no-brainer it was obvious what needed to be done uh but of course for the the issues in the GitHub repository we actually have to make decisions and um I think it would be good to get some forward progress even if we know that we will take a year or more to to address all of them but if we we solve one of these per interim meeting then we already are in pretty good shape from my point of view so this is what I wanted to mention about KLA thanks Caren for the revision and the summary and I think it's a very good idea to use the next series of interim to uh Lively work on one or two issues per meeting actually great Christian your already cut very short again I guess you support this uh yes I do and I yeah it's uh delayed to to unmute again day again okay yeah so we we should pick one item uh at least a week before the the the inter meeting so people know what what they should be preparing for and maybe we even can have a mailing list discussion and then we can use high bandw to to get decision and uh so we will then get a new revision of the internet draft and finally get about 50 or something yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "okay uh thanks a lot and on the next Point that's also something that Caron brought up a few um days ago on a discussion happening in HTTP B and there was also a followup uh from Ted lemon I think on the possible use of DNS so t didn't seem to like the idea very much for constraint devices uh you had an opinion on that in particular Ken right yeah I think the the the nonobvious thing that that brought me to bring this up is that this not only means you have to implement mdns to use mdns which is kind of obvious and not a problem um but if you ever want to be seen by anybody else you have to implement an mdns responder and that's new that that's a completely new quality um uh about IPv6 link local uh usage and I think we we should be ve very very um aware of what we are doing here right any more comments right now on this uh anyone but otherwise now we chrisan I'm I'm a bit confused that there is a concern from Ted because I pinned him as as being being more involved with this and the mdns people generally have their mechanisms of um doing things with less broadcasts and more and more and more caching on the network um I don't know the precise mechanisms but I think there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "was something I'm not a big fan of going through that route but at least the the being always online concern should there should be something better around in the mdns ecosystem already yeah there actually is a section in the document that explains how to do that so you have to implement mdns you also have to implement SRP uh to to get less multicasting and you obviously need to um Implement some discovery of of the entity you do SRP with um it's only a half-page section so it didn't go into a lot of detail but uh I think that that's actually a Siz amount of code that you actually have to have working there did you actually plan to provide input to the htpb discussion well um I started the thread uh in the hope that we could get some uh something we can just point the htbb people to because it's really not necessarily something that the htb people interests um so Ted lemon sent a response uh which also mentioned this protocol um this addal protocol that you use for for registering Your Existence with your environment um and um yeah the draft now actually um provides more more information on how this actually fits together uh so um yeah maybe at some point we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "should be renewing the the pointer there so I definitely want to to have a look at this again because it's yeah oh because I do see how it is relevant to to core uh there was a lot of work by Modzilla a few years ago that basically where B that basically said kind of yeah they had everything working except the security part um now that there are things such as svcp record and uh and tlsa maybe it's easier now to address that but yeah I I'll I'll I'll clearly have a look at this thanks thank you Christian okay good thanks for raising this topic anything more on it no then the next one is um just early thinking uh of course as usual to uh confirm and synchronize with the Cil working groups uh on the next series of um interim meetings after Brisbane and speaking of which core got a two-hour session uh in UTC time it starts on Tuesday 19 at 23:30 it ends on Wednesday 20 at 01:30 but of course double check a thousand times on the agenda online so I take it you're not going to Brisbane either I take it online correct uh okay but uh after the Brisbane meeting uh the idea was to resume of course and ideally keeping the same uh pace so core on the odd weeks uh on Wednesday uh at the same time as usual um resuming from um April uh 10 and there would be three weeks after the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "ITF meeting basically um we are planning to skip the occurrence on may22 because it's exactly where we have the iot hakon event in Paris also combined with the t2g meeting exactly that day by the way um so it makes sense to skip uh that instance and even without it uh we are left with six uh meetings in total uh before ITF 1220 which should be good enough uh do you see any particular issue with this Christian uh no works for me okay but for sure I'll send a mail to you and Barry uh to confirm internally and then we'll confirm with the working group around it19 as usual thanks okay and that said we are um the end of the agenda uh anything more you want to discuss today about core or related topics okay the comment in the chat was about the I'll read it carefully later thanks yeah but we all on vacation in that time anyway so yeah yeah of course we still have to reason on these proposals but uh it it roughly works that way okay then uh thanks for today have a good cut off talk to you latest in the ITF one week happy riding bye bye thank you bye bye bye"
  }
]
