[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:12",
    "text": "actually we almost died I\u0027m not think we need a couple of people who can taste remotes poverty I want it like this what\u0027s happening some crystal we can combine cup no no me people use the a la taupe so that everybody can use simultaneously and put the dog and if we think something is missing you can tell or you can we announce that trust me they here find something okay you can take a some courage seconds before tea but comfort so we protecting it yeah and you can\u0027t see this hello everybody welcome to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:12",
    "text": "multiple TCP meeting thank you all for coming congratulations for finding the meeting room I know that everybody here is you\u0027ve got you\u0027re here because you\u0027re dedicated me keen and interested so that\u0027s excellent news just the normal information about that well thank you to our note takers the collaborative effort there\u0027s going to be if you can help with the notes just go meet a pattern you can you can write in nobody can write at the same time the normal reminders please to say your name Mike to help people who don\u0027t know you or the note take all the people who remote and please fill in the blue sheet which is now started going round this left-hand side and the snake at the back again the usual and no well just to remind me what you say here is covered by the it--if no well and I should also just introduce ourselves as chairs which I was remiss to do at the beginning so I\u0027m bitter birdly and sitting next to Museo Shifu me where the two chairs for this group so we have just a brief introduction on the working group status etc we have then the updates to our protocol this document which Christoph will lead on and we\u0027ll have some discussion about how we\u0027re going to try and complete that we have taught from savvy on multiple TCP in 5g h is clearly a topic of some importance and then some potential work items that might be in the next iteration no no sorry I didn\u0027t intentionally switch those with stick with the order of the supper okay right so yes so we\u0027ve been working on the Biss for a while now we are in working boot last call on the Bisson factor in theory it\u0027s completed but that\u0027s a topic that we we will come back to and yet just remind you that the the best document is to update the existing RFC it is on the standards track rather than the experimental track and that it will obsolete the existing protocol 682 for because of various changes in the in the protocol in the handshake etc which mean that it some is not backwards compatible we have some we had had some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:13",
    "text": "work in in the Charter on multi-party simi proxies just as a reminder that has now shifted to the TCP M working group where there is a working group item on the zero RTT converter which is I think pretty nice it\u0027s a slightly generalized version of the multipath TCP proxy I\u0027m so that\u0027s very good news please go to TCP M to contribute to that that work the things they\u0027re really important yes we have an enhanced API on our charter we don\u0027t have a working group document on this at the moment but that will be one of the possible working group items so we should now switch to the to the first item on the agenda - - about the protocol bits which is before n and if we will have any kind of implementations news yeah could you speak up Christoph Apple last week at dynamics net dev Network Developers Conference we meaning myself met Martino and Peter presser from Intel and mature births from Tesla\u0027s presented MPD SP to the Linux networking community asking for feedback and suggestions on how to proceed with dab streaming and to the official Linux kernel feedback was very positive if they made some we got some suggestions and overall the Linux TCP maintainer is is encouraging us to upstream empties piano or wants to see it in the next Connor and I will also give similar talk than the one we gave at net dev on a transport area open meeting I don\u0027t know when it is I think Wednesday or Thursday and will present the lessons that we learned your challenges that we are facing where if everybody\u0027s be up streaming thanks Christopher I mean that\u0027s very good news because it\u0027s you know it\u0027s proved difficult over a long period to get it in the mainline kernel and if we can do that that\u0027s really excellent so thank you to to Christoph and and colleagues from Intel them and to Saurus have been working on that any other implementation is not only green axe we have we think we have a similar implementation so anyone has the information it does know Stephen first f5 networks the big IP in f5 does sport MPTV I think only on the client side not on the server side I\u0027m not sure much the the big IP supports MP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:15",
    "text": "TCP on the client side do you like your proxy stuff so by default the bigger PE is a full proxy well we will terminate the MMP TCP on the client side and do TCP on the server side but we don\u0027t do mptp MP TCP on the server side at the moment okay so let\u0027s move on to the 6/8 24 bits Christophe yeah I\u0027ll present the updates that we made on the optics of c6 a 24 bits the version 11 only minor updates and then also some of the comments that we got for the working group last call from Phil next slide so we updated from version 10 to version 11 after the feedback that we got at the IETF in London it was basically two pieces we were we had some references to experimental drafts and RCS in our 68 24 base draft so we removed the section 3.7 about the MP TCP experimental option and this can then be rather specified in and separate RFC and the second item is we moved the references to TCP fast open and how it would interact with NP TCP to the appendix also the reason is because the gtfo RFC is currently only an experimental RFC at not a standard struck RFC so that\u0027s why the decision has been made to move those two parts either remove them or move them to the appendix then Phil launched the working group last call for the base there were quite a few minor comments about editorial issues and then two other bigger ones one of the changes that went into the best version is that we added an echo flag into the address option this echo flag allows to basically have a reliable transmission of the address because it can be lost and so we want to make sure that it actually reaches the other side and the echo bit basically is a mechanism where when the server or the peer receives the add address it will simply echo the same option back to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:16",
    "text": "client setting the echo flag to one now the question that has been raised by full during the working group last call was whoever whether an attacker could actually fake this echo bit because the echo bit is not protected by the H Mac and whether that it opens up any kind of attack surfaces from my personal point of view I don\u0027t think it opens up any new attacks but that I guess needs to be debated and thought through so this is your C from floor and so this is personal opinion that this is interesting point but other is basically announcement crying as I have this address and then it\u0027s Sabha to utilize this address so if it\u0027s Attica send back to the house Heidi address but cry and has no effect the basic client doesn\u0027t use this address so I don\u0027t know this could read severe security issue that\u0027s what I\u0027m thinking this because know if if a Kaka tried to utilize this information akka attacker tried to initiate another hello and enjoying MP join to the other s to the Sabha side but it\u0027s also neat also fray in the steering rods token secret key otherwise he won\u0027t make it snow i from my point of view even this is possible attack but after that attack also need to do stealing some keys otherwise it doesn\u0027t work that\u0027s my understanding yeah yes I agree like the if the attacker would do this by setting the echo bit here to one the client will just assume that the above at address has been received by the server which is okay if it got lost okay he won\u0027t be retransmitting it I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s a big deal and the other case is but that you did I think this rubbish he doesn\u0027t sets the echo bit right then the client might be fooled into creating a sub flow to this address but then the hmm verification would fail right so yeah but if there is any people see as a point let\u0027s share I\u0027m Feeny we\u0027ll go to the next slide comment to the mailing list so another scenario that was changed in the best version is if you nowadays you want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:16",
    "text": "announce an address and immediately mark it as a backup address what you could previously do is you send an address with an address ID X in this case and you couldn\u0027t basically follow this then with an MP prior to downgrade the priority to back up because the MP prior you can indicate the address ID and say this one should be backup now when the v9 version several versions ago off the best draft we removed the address ID because researchers pointed us to an attack that would be possible that an unperfect a car could basically mark all also sub flows as backup and basically steer all that all the traffic on his own path and so to prevent this kind of an attack we decided to remove the address ID from the MP prior so now if you want to change the priority of a sub flow you need to send the MP prior on this particular sub flow now that our if we don\u0027t have the address ID anymore you can go to the next slide now we can\u0027t do this above anymore right we can\u0027t say anymore mark this particular address as a backup right we can\u0027t do what what the above line anymore because there\u0027s no more errors ID and so the proposal that Phil pointed out to basically you revive this particular scenario again is to add the backup bit into the add address option that way that way you can basically announce the address and at the same time say hey this is a backup address and that\u0027s basically the proposal to into the best version of the draft right yeah that\u0027s what I propose yeah otherwise in order to make backup you have to establish a connection in the send mp3 oh that\u0027s very cumbersome from my point of view and then it doesn\u0027t hard security I think and that\u0027s why I think this and this this we don\u0027t want to support this case we should have this feature that\u0027s my personal if there is another people think another way this shit I agree with that opinion like I think it\u0027s very useful to have a announce the address was the backup it because then the receiver can just say okay I\u0027m not going to establish a sub flow to deserters unless unless I basically lost all my other sub flows so I think it makes a lot of sense so does anybody else want to speak to this suggestion either for it or against it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:28",
    "text": "if you\u0027ve had time to think about this and you you have a view and you\u0027re in if yeah if you have a view about this proposal you\u0027ve had enough time to think about it maybe you could just put your hand in yet so I just see if we get a feel for if there\u0027s enough people here who know about it apart from the three of us in the front does anybody else thoughts about this enough to have a view about it okay so I think my conclusion from that is that we should put the question to the to the mailing list and not trying rich of you before before you go so one of the other questions that came up was about releasing the the code because Christophe has written Linux code for for the base an implementation of it but not been able to release it yet so I just wondered if you can sending news about that I will work on getting the approval to release the code this week and I will let you know about possible eighty-eights order that\u0027s good news and thank thank you for implementing it and and yeah going through the through the process which is which won\u0027t be paying for it released and that\u0027s obviously important so that people can experiment with it and and test it out you know to make sure that we\u0027ve got this right before we actually launch it on the world I can give that at the end after we and that\u0027s what the estimation is so there are any more questions about the growth before I put one okay so we\u0027ve we\u0027ve had okay I say the largest is a short question what do you plan to do with the extension because you it was supposed to be moved to somewhere else do you plan to still you know I have the code for to add an extension because that could be useful for a Foley for other work you mean the experimental options yes yes as far as I know the plan is to write an RFC around it but probably all of you who kind of originally proposed his ideas more context okay so so we see with him Ike "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:30",
    "text": "we can see with him underneath something I would suggest that maybe he is also listening and might respond thank you he was listening but he\u0027s disappeared any more comments or questions this point so we\u0027ve had we\u0027ve had a month or so for working group last call and unfortunately we we didn\u0027t get comments apart from Yoshi and I so we really would like some more eyes on this document from people who are potential users or potential implementers or people who\u0027ve who\u0027ve been involved in the discussion over the last few years on this document you know I know we\u0027ve had we\u0027ve had an extensive discussion over quite a long period on all the bits that have been added so that\u0027s you know it\u0027s not as ODEs come out of nowhere this document it\u0027s been reviewed and discussed a lot by the working group but really to meta to move this could complete the working group call last call properly and so we can send it to the ice gee we really could do with more than just the two chairs reading it so I\u0027m basically after some volunteers we\u0027re after volunteers to read this and make some comments you don\u0027t at least read parts of it you don\u0027t have to take it all on but to you know to read that you\u0027re interested in and say what you\u0027ve read and that you like it or you don\u0027t and you know positive comments are good just to say yes already I\u0027ll prove it or I\u0027ve read the section and it works for me so people in this room you\u0027re obviously very keen you\u0027ve made it to an end of a long corridor so I\u0027m hoping we can get some volunteers so this really am now after some individuals who are prepared to stick their hand up and and agree to review all or some of the documents over the next few weeks the document on Bravo Java from Huawei Technologies each other and there\u0027s also this MB TCP implementers list right I\u0027m not sure many people on that list and how active that is but maybe we can also try to recruit some people from outside the IETF to just read the document and send a final feedback to the list I can do that yeah no actually not do that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:40",
    "text": "so yeah more volunteers of obviously fantastic but thank you very much to to the two of you volunteer that\u0027s that\u0027s really cool okay so we\u0027ll we\u0027ll we\u0027ll work out what to do when we\u0027ve when we\u0027ve had the extra reviews and we\u0027ve heard the news about the code release we\u0027ll work out there the next steps for the time scale than pushing this to the ice gee I think we but you know the time depends on those two factors but when\u0027s the right time to keep to push it firm to the next step thanks Kristen hi so this is a presentation on MPCP operation in 5g on behalf of my coworkers revision zero of the draft was presented in the last meeting and the feedback included the following both on the mailing list and in the in the room first the there is an interest for NPT p5 genes mainly but the proposal should be more concrete and also the second point was that the DMM is defining session continuity types for IP addresses and we should take that into account so between the last right between the last meeting and today we adapted the section on session continuity and it is now using the session continuity types as input to the mptp scheduler it is possible also to send the session continuity types over an HTTP signaling so that the way most capable can also use this information just to clarify with the history the goal is to session Canadian wagons when you have an IP address which is replaced or complemented with another IP address by the network know for example when you move and so you see you know alternative details after that so on the other side there was also some progress on dual "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:41",
    "text": "connectivity which was the second half of the of the draft but no major update the top of the draft was performed on on this side but there will be a still a slide on on the acuity so just a bit of background on decision continuity types so they are defined in the DMM in the Vietnam draft on demand mobility for IP addresses provided by by mobile networks so we will be using 5g there are some letters and statements and four types are defined so we have fixed session lasting non persistent and rescuin replacements so our fixed IP address is valid for a long time the session lasting address is valid over the lifetime of the a position and non-persistent IP address does not enable session continuity nor address which ability and is typically associated with a break before make between non persistent IP addresses when graceful replacement IP addresses are bit similar except that they are associated with a make before break so an application can request an IP address of a certain type using a new socket API call and router advertisements also make every session committee types that\u0027s different in a different raft and you have additional background information in the last slide carried over from the last presentation so just now this slide is on the slide on the session continuity type it described basically it\u0027s a modification of the of the draft to adapt to know using session continuity type in MPC P so in SSE mode 1 which is the 5g mode with a fixed anchor the initial IP address is a session lasting IP address or fixed IP address and it can be it can be temporarily complemented by a non persistent IP address so just for this case the session content type would not be very useful except it\u0027s may be useful to make a distinction with the other modes now in SS single term this is a distributed your case will break before Meck so it it\u0027s adapted for certain types of applications the initial non-persistent IP address is replaced with another non persistent IP address after a short break the session continuity type for example in this case now I can indicate to the MP TCP stack that a break before make transition is expected so that may be useful that may or may not be useful really that may be useful for example if the timeout we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:42",
    "text": "want the timeout in this case to be different from the normal or more general break before make support in mptp and then a second usage is the the type can also be useful to try can update the backup address because you know you get an IP address which you say is a backup but that then better that IP address disappears and is replaced with another one for example well the other one replaces the first one so it should be a backup as well so and just to illustrate the type of info that we we need when we think we need we need a session continuity type on the IP address the new IP address the fact also that this IP address is relating to an origin or IP address which it replaces and of course the you have the continuity type of the original IP address so these three information elements are good input which can basically which can make it possible to make a decision and execute one of these one of these actions in SS symmetry which is a distributed encoder case with the make before break the initial graceful replacement IP address is replaced with another graceful replacement address and there is an overlap period so in this case knowing the and the type the session continuity type animals making the distinction with as a single one because otherwise it would look it would look similar and the application is deciding it is deciding which as a simple to use so it\u0027s important for us to learn about it so and this type is also also enables performing a graceful migration of traffic from the first to the second IP address and maybe as importantly you know it enables releasing the resources on the first IP addresses so that the network can actually use them for something else the remote pier can implement this behavior as well if the type is transmitted over mptp signaling and also the type is also useful to track and update the backup address so I mean as a conclusion so the session continuity type we think is a useful input to operate in fact G scenarios you know just to basically to track what\u0027s happening to this to this IP addresses for example to the cellular IP addresses which is associated with the session continuity mode and it enables distinguishing between cases and also it offers flexibility for future evolution so now a few words on the other section so dual connectivity and immediately "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:43",
    "text": "some co-authors so that\u0027s basically Ken and his colleagues at an ICT I\u0027ve analyzed the 3gpp see especially specification sorry with the focus on the issue of MPCP of virtual connectivity and as a result about paper it\u0027s an empirical analysis framework for multipath communications it models dual connectivity and optimizes the traffic splitsville latency and expect to use that with MPTP in the future so there was no major update of this section but when we see in the net last next and last slide but they also implied for the future so this is the last slide what are the next steps so about the session connectivity the continuity section we would like to collect an address feedback from the PCB working group on the recent change to use the DMM defined session continuity type well so we also sent the notice to the DMM group in case they have some comments then also we plan to do some experimentation using simulation or emulation because of the lack of availability of G of Phi G system now about dual connectivity about the the section on the all connectivity our next step is to prototype MPC P overall connectivity and to identify impacts on MPT CP and 3gpp standards so now about working with eruptions I know it\u0027s a bit early but it\u0027s because there will be some discussion on the new charter on possible new work so maybe it\u0027s still a good moment to to present this to say that you know would like to know if the working group is interested in discussing or adopting this work at some point the topic could be really MPTP adaptation and optimization for 4G we think that at least for session continuity and possibly for connectivity something Joseph LG saying work may need to be done and at least it could be a general topic which could be addressed in various ways so that\u0027s it thank you any question I\u0027ve got one question maybe they\u0027re not here are there any implications for the MP TCP protocol yes a purely separate I think that maybe first there locally the the stack then PHP stack will very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:45",
    "text": "likely need to you know be aware of this session cata media type and the relationship between an address and its origin IP address we know this but we think that in s asymmetry to enable some optimization to release early the first you know to release resources associated with the first IP address as early as possible it would be beneficial to send this information over the year but basically to send it over the protocol for example that could be a message saying when it\u0027s it\u0027s a bit similar to the backup bit you know like but it could be a separate message or a part of the add address but it could eat something that as the session continuity type and if it\u0027s a separate message we\u0027ll need the index to the to the address that\u0027s why you know it could be potentially an extension of some kind when we used over 5g but I would like to say it\u0027s for 5g but the the session continually types on our general so anywhere where a session continuity solution will be deployed it would it may be beneficial ready to have this information so I think you\u0027re saying that yes you think maybe there should be it needs more discussion but maybe there should be some modification to the to the best document in order to get some optimal behavior for this for this scenario which is not just a 5g but it has more wider implications if I\u0027ve got that right maybe you could try and just pull out the the summary of the suggestion and why and put it to the main missed as part of the sense and we\u0027re gonna will be a comment for the working group glass call essentially that you think there should be a modification for this reason to this be very specific if you want to make that suggestion as a working very mask or comment sure yes sorry it\u0027s the impression will be late to make this suggestion that\u0027s why I didn\u0027t make it make comments in the working boot last call us why stick to make sure that people got you know comments and mods to mate and then the working group is it\u0027s Liberty to decide not to take on the suggestion or to decide to it not say thanks can I comment very few me a cool even it sounded a little bit like what you\u0027re looking for is mainly in the face questions in implementation questions I\u0027m not sure if they\u0027re actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:46",
    "text": "implications for the actual wire protocol I think you know I think that there may be the the thing is it\u0027s a twin a it enables optimizing when you are in SSC mode three to shoot enable optimization of the transition and also it should enable realism the first I mean resources of the first IP address early because you just make a one small point it seems to me the SSC mode 3 was kind of defined for applications like a browser or something like that so you open you open a small or short session you know here\u0027s the first IP address then we change you the new IP address you still keep using for the existing session the first IP address but when you open a new session in your IP session you use the new IP address and since that\u0027s relatively short a positions when you stop using the first IP address and you move on but here if you are in PCP and you want to use all your links as optimally as possible you will keep using that first IP address as long as you can and maybe the it\u0027s not really as the network operator would prefer you to use that IP address because it provided a new one that it wants you to use so some form of you see it it\u0027s not like major thing it\u0027s not like it won\u0027t work if you don\u0027t do it but you won\u0027t realize the first the resources of the first IP address early enough yeah so but that\u0027s a local decision right it\u0027s a local decision of the end point and you may be one like network input but like MV TCP is an end-to-end protocol so like how to get this input from the network to the client as a completely separate question okay I mean I\u0027m any some of your points I\u0027m sorry about this I need to think more but yeah my understanding is that the both sides would need to know that this is we are on SSI mode three so that you actually stop sending packets on on the first phone on the path using the first IP address so you need to send to stop using packet to stop sending the packets otherwise you need to wait for the network to just bring down the IP address I think we would like to see it no comment and then we can think about this is just the implementation model for is easy or we can we need to change take one up anyway thank you my way valleys I\u0027m working our auto body in the fact is that nuts for our Stan Stan Stan Stan for man standing the fact is such an continuity yes is working on the IP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:48",
    "text": "address that you say Abbott resin layer because you para you\u0027re talking about MPT CPO I do not know you when you doin this work maybe you introduce some deepen a pataiiputra did not appeal I just have but is okay but Adams and confuse that for our selling continuity will only for Apple layer then for all the TCP layer or UDP layer and what or the other layer or quickly who can support but at you you\u0027re not only talking about MP TCP my concerns maybe you should\u0027ve proposed your proposal in the in IP some IP relates the working government dot on MPCP part because o Montolivo and peaches tcp this one guru is only says the UE should suffer empty CP this confuse a lot of people what is working groups kabadi you know to a certain extent the PGP understanding its acting and it\u0027s between the application and the IP layer so it\u0027s actually acting as a user of the IP layer so it\u0027s it it won\u0027t try to use the different IP addresses typically as funny as it can and but that causes it I mean to me I mean I think we identified the possible issue in asesino 3 that you keep using all the IP addresses as much as you can which a normal application like a browser when will not do because a browser knows I mean in will be associated with assessing node 3 so any application which is associated with as a single tree we all actually I mean SS me ma tree is designed for a certain type of applications and MPTP does not behave like this type of applications man essentially the app your proposed 3 tab or fourth tab oh I\u0027ve just I\u0027ve read this is very helpful for the SE model one two three but massaging my concerns that this type of use shape in general for all the plant water protocol is not a related for UDP quick or TCP or CTP its general "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:50",
    "text": "of habit tab I mean if your proposal from here it means it only use the per MPCP paper ue o is used by all kind of UE this my concern like it\u0027s it\u0027s just a problem with the order you can start from NP TCP you can extend to the other protocol that\u0027s one way to do it my the second comments is that now people in the 50 you\u0027re talking about is v6 it is 1550 now that are working in CPP on the width is 16 in the restricting a lot of people have posed a lot of solution for the new 50 feature for the example for traffic steering between different access tell Marta for example you can access Wi-Fi and the faculty in selectivity can use an TCP to submit the the one the IP fellow from different access in such a case the enhance the enhancement the video access and increase the done in the data also people also in in the last acetyl meeting people also proposed and please eternity to enhancement the communication in two because there are two paths so one man passes failure and that have can can be survived with the communication so there\u0027s a really sixteen I think in the faculty this actual Apogee and no latency communication so people also propose that technology can be used for the you are RC so you can continue this work I think it\u0027s very helpful I have one question with the dual connectivity that you mentioned where basically you have you mention it is in the draft quickly look you have two cases where they mention where your ones is where you have different IP addresses on the two bearers the other case is where you have to say my piano is under both arrows right so if you have to say my PRS on both barrels you basically when you\u0027re sending you need to kind of indicate which bearer the subfloor belongs to the question is how can the base station know to which bear or discipler belongs to because the base station is not really aware of MB TCP port any kind of signaling or I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:53",
    "text": "know what I know about this and it\u0027s not I can know a lot about this but my understanding is at lower layer it\u0027s really at the layer tool that between the UE and the base station but these two links are basically you have different PD new sessions usually you should have different musicians I think not necessarily coming if you have to say my Piero\u0027s on both barrels it\u0027s one video session on the both terms in this case it might be transparent it may be transparent to you know when it\u0027s transparent to the UE usually it\u0027s one right now so here you know my understanding that Canyon disconnects they they are then they need to define a way to expose this as you are saying the application layer and that that is not something that is done right now so yeah and it it can be exposed on the device side but the tricky part is then to expose the same thing on the base station side because when the return traffic is coming back right it needs to know over which bearer to send which sub flow sort it becomes a little bit more complicated on the downstream link I think if there\u0027s no specific signaling or if we want to avoid them to do deep packet inspection that\u0027s my it\u0027s possible actually I don\u0027t know how they plan to do that on the network side sorry I mean the duo community we could already work just by already just on the upstream path and and it\u0027s already benefit and even if the base station doesn\u0027t understands the signaling it\u0027s fine yeah for that your connection is a layer 2 technology in the faculty system in such case only full of one IP address for the one up he flow DiSpirito to that the packet have a flow path to put even the connection this that your connection so this layer to technology that doesn\u0027t like at appears Kaname solicit that they the the base station and not a know any happy fellow human it also is not allowed at the base station to know the IP flow information because of a lot of country and not a lot of a station in need to to the packet filter in because of issue Nexus no initial so so only the pristine only to the near to civility "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:54",
    "text": "and a companion communication baton or to the less necessary layer layer or policy layer speeding and combining communication hello this is your serum for um yeah it\u0027s interesting and so you said you have three SSC mode and then in my understanding if you see mode is determined inside I was in attack my cry yes I believe it\u0027s associated with every application by policy so MP TCP application can only know okay I mean if they see more diversity more to that means if you know it\u0027s a MPD\u0027s application had started and then by using some special API and it can know the current SEC mode and the it said if you are SSC mode one then there is not so many single student for this MP TCP application but it\u0027s it\u0027s only for one IP address so basically if you are using a system mode one and you are Wi-Fi also you know it\u0027s basically like 4G but it\u0027s just the application is associated with a system with two or three that basically you you gain something you know you because you have shorter path but you have to work more for it so you so my question is there any way from I\u0027m TCP application check can choose I want to have him as a system or two OSS Amal 3 is there any way to the discipline I just think that that could be an interesting it could be interesting to think about that right now I believe it\u0027s associated with the application if the application is making use of MPCP and maybe there is something there to investigate clarification question you can have a multiple PD you in a single host on the one cost let\u0027s say if I have to attempt it is your application then I can have a to PDO session for each MPDC publication it is possible answer answer your question yeah in the faculty they have defined the policy on the network send out that to the UE says that this application you can use a similar one is application usage a symbol to this application assemble three but this is a this application tanaris I am participation it has an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:56",
    "text": "application north am participation think that I would see more concrete you know exchange between TCP layer and Hal you know we can utilize the sea SEC mole yeah sure I think we need to understand after two we can discuss more about your question on the list or directly by email thank you my shoe type yeah okay so this is the last topic of the discussion and previously I sent a message to the mailing list but right now we are about to finish 6a 24 bits draft and then after we finish this draft we don\u0027t have working group item right now and then and then right now yeah I see lots of people in this room but compared to the you know for Paniagua two years ago we are losing some energy in the working group and one might say you know we can skip several meetings or in the worst case you know let\u0027s say it cross the media but ah I probably I see some still some energy in the working group so vara i\u0027ve tried to figure it out but we can do in short time and wrong town and then some previously we see lots of interesting presentation in the previous meeting so I tried to summarize some of the nice proposal on the you know working group meeting on the on the it a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:56",
    "text": "mailing list as well and so I have listed several topics here for example api\u0027s we have several you know presentations about api\u0027s and then also about some feature extension we can have some security feature experiment by using Tiaras or we see some proposal and then these days no tcp ink has been deployed and then and previously original if an sctp bug STP ink working group has me establish one of the application for se tippy ink working group is to support and participate so maybe we can go back to this status and then maybe TCP ink and MP TCP collaborate each other and maybe we can think about some method and then another thing with no happy end high performance environment and then there are several approaches like a happy eyeball sending March MP TCP initial initialization message to multiple you know destination at the same time and so that we can enhance a performance that\u0027s one way and also we can think about packet scheduling our quoi spec does not talk about packet scheduling and right now it\u0027s live to the implementation but if someone come up with very nice packet scheduling mechanism it might be better to standardize it that\u0027s another possible idea and then there are some suggestion that we should interact with working groups more and DMM is one of the good example you know by you know we might be you know find a nice way to utilize MP TCP on 5g network may be promising idea and block ops there\u0027s some segmented routing proposals maybe they might utilize MP TCP and everything working group we can utilize some Marsh pass information and then we might be able to utilize MP TCP here and there are several there may be several way to collaborate each other but I would like to see you know what we can do especially in short term and then also we can see something in long term then if you can have some opinions and please share and and then you know we can think about future problem with the working group more query any opinions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "oh yes so since how so is there any timeline for the rich country there is no time right but right now we don\u0027t have any working group item and then um if we don\u0027t have working right then and there is no strong reason have a meeting probably so we might skip one or two meetings until it all possible promising working group item has proposed yeah we need to think about it if there is very promising idea and they win you know there are so many people start feeling this it\u0027s a good idea to discuss and then we can have a meeting and all right if we don\u0027t see good show tonight them maybe we can skip several meeting that\u0027s but I would like to figure it out what\u0027s the atmosphere in this group that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to feel right now so our constant is better are you going to have this is this the proposal you solid state already on Mellon East right sorry discussion so are you so are you asking us the plane that it is okay to write this into the Charter or no no no I mean that\u0027s a good question so um this is this was a collection of ideas that people have raised about topics that people might be interested in working on so in order to threat to become a working group item it basically needs a community of interest so it needs more than one person to say I\u0027m interested in this topic so you need several people to work on it at least you know you need people to work on it but you also need people who say if somebody does work on it I would use it so it needs a community of people rather than just being one individual who\u0027s interested in the topic and will be the only person who would use it so that that\u0027s basically the selection criteria so there has to be a group of people who who want the work want the output and they\u0027re prepared to work on it they don\u0027t have to be completely overlap doesn\u0027t have to be exactly the same people in each set yeah if that makes sense okay that sounds more clear so in general still if if someone wants to preserve some items forward just some in Madras and have more discussion or at least is that it doesn\u0027t even make drafts of the stage it needs these needs you to say as a user I would you know if you if the working gig "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:02",
    "text": "produced something on security enhancement using TLS I would want to use this okay I can got time to work on it or was it got the expertise to working it but I say user ah yeah that\u0027s very that\u0027s so is that that sort of thing on the mailing list would be great okay thank you for a guide you want to say something media meuk live in respondent lady so if this working group has reached the end of the Charter then what we usually do with close working group right I\u0027m not saying that you cannot like reach order and figure out new work items but if there\u0027s like nothing to work on the working group will be closed that does not mean that you cannot work on NP t CP anymore I think before closing the working group I would like to talk to the T CPM working group and see if they can reach other and explicitly include any maintenance work on em V TCP in their charter because then you also have like you have one working group what the whole key CP community can actually talk which I think would be very valuable yeah and like and even if we close a working group we can so leave like mainly must open so you can have further discussions there the queries know what we can do if you want to continue working group you need work so I think you purple knowing that will happen is but I mean like even if we integrated into TCP M if like a lot of new work shows up there\u0027s also a way to whatever T CPM could get two sessions per ITF and have one more focused on MBT CP and one more focus another tcp question i mean that\u0027s kind of what we do as a transport area or can group a transport working group for example that they very often have like one sessions that\u0027s focus on an sctp for example right so like as I said like just closing you\u0027re working group doesn\u0027t mean the work has to end but if there\u0027s not enough work in this room with interest for these people then closing the working group is it\u0027s a natural thing to do some kind of day trying to make such kind of decision yes as soon as the last item on your list it\u0027s kind of - the process we have to make a decision to continue the working group of please work hard that\u0027s the message from maybe how are the blue sheets doing as who has who has not signed the blue sheet oh dear where is it Christophe Apple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:13",
    "text": "I think what\u0027s probably going on at the moon is like people are busy deploying it and finishing up use cases that already have been identified in the past and pushing to get MP TCP out there in the implementations and so on so that\u0027s maybe why working like the activity in the working world has calmed down a little bit and also feel like sometimes them please be working group is highly location dependent where the meeting is it\u0027s more or less activity because the people who are working on MPSP are mostly centered in in the European location and so personally I think it would be okay to like wait a bit and see where it goes because people are busy deploying it and there\u0027s a lot of activity going on in mp TCP even if it\u0027s not visible at the IETF there are billions of devices out there that are using it every day and they are more coming by the way Christophe why are you working on implementation to you you are seeing some need to work on API what about API for Linux implementation iOS API definitely not because we control our API we don\u0027t kind of yeah personally I always think that IETF is not the right place for API standardization because it\u0027s more the implementations but it\u0027s just my personal opinion I know others have other opinion yeah we are definitely looking and Linux up streaming work into how we can expose and participatory user space whether that would be useful to standardize that I don\u0027t know quick question so you say people deploy MV TCP it\u0027s great and like if they have like smaller changes comments needs there will be placed in the ITF to work on this do you expect any kind of larger request changes coming out of it I don\u0027t think they are going to be well kind of depends personally I have a long list of things that I would like to change but that\u0027s not going to happen because we need to talk to servers so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s going to personally I don\u0027t think there are gonna be lots of huge changes at least not in the foreseeable future a long-term attractive well I know I have a list of things that are wrong but that\u0027s a different story "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:14",
    "text": "my main concern with that group is that a lot of TCP experts don\u0027t show up in this group anymore and we have seen this with the proxy discussion that those people suddenly then show up again and have different opinions and so on so I think it would be valuable for any kind of MB TCP extensions to go into the TCP and again I don\u0027t want to stop anybody from working on this protocol because it\u0027s a good protocol it\u0027s really nice to see that it\u0027s taking off yep I think we\u0027re done yeah thank you very much and thank you for those reviews coming in all very well thank you and as I said no are we and not we right now we are not clear vision to have a meeting at Bangkok and if you really want to show something no you should please notify us beforehand "
  }
]