[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "only when you go to the when you give me the green button then i see i i would see the slide text to pick and could look into the slides okay so i uh now i've just given you the i clicked the the the green button for you actually you have to stop sharing this light and then you can grant christian the ability to share okay okay oh yeah now i can select something so like um i select gm admin clicking share and now i can hop through them okay so we will try it's not a good day because we're very busy for this session but [Laughter] okay so i i i think we should start now so i'm gonna share my screen yeah the window so hi everyone um so you are in the ace meeting um uh logan uh is gonna my co-coacher is gonna reach me in a few moments he had an emergency uh meeting so he's gonna come later you have the nut well in case you've never read those or um you were not aware of those noteworld meetings um so please have a look to do that and um um we're looking for a minute texture so we already have christian but if anyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "else is willing to help him it's more than welcome so um do we have a second minute taker yeah i can help okay thank you garan i guess it's goran um so just be informed that we have a new code of conduct at the itf i don't think we ever had any problems in this uh working group before but um um i mean we need to to to make the the conversation professional and um it's a quite a quite standard behavior so um if any one of you is noticing something please let me know i would be happy to act on that so we do have um a pretty busy agenda so i am going to be um quite short and i'm going to ask the the other um presenters to remain quite short um the goal of this meeting is clearly to end up every uh document that we have in working group last goal or that are going to be in the working group last goal in a few days so that's the priority for the the first priority for that meeting the second priority is um about adapting new work and to have those discussions um and uh that's it so where we are um with this working group we actually have um one two three four five documents so it's go up east uh waiting for dtls we have the dtls authorized the oauth os os params and osco profiles which are the main ace framework that are in the rfcq"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "so congratulations to all the people that have been committed to that we have three drafts into the isg evaluation so that's the um aif the cmpv2 and the mqtt tls profile um one comment i'd like to say um and mostly to make it very clear um to everyone is that the the cmp v2 draft needs to progress uh through the rfc editor in parallel with um some other documents in lamps mostly because they are um they have a um they do share um a registry at the ayana so um that's one of the reason um yeah so and we do have two documents in working group last goal so that's the key group comms and the co-op eep um and um a few uh other working group documents um among those um the key group combo score that is going to be moved in working group last goal um hopefully in the few next days um that said i'm just wondering if ben or adi is willing to add anything if he has any question or if anyone has any comments to say to our 80 so please is ben on the queue i don't see him on the queue so um as anyone to say anything about 2r80"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "no so i suggest that we move on maybe we could start with the ip document so i'm going to ask dan to go to the queue and to ask for oh okay peter said tell me that um ben has left a meeting so he he will probably come later on and feel free to to catch him on gather for example so um then do you want me to present the slides or do you want to um present the size yourself if you if you can please uh present the slides and i can just indicate when you move forward please okay so i'm gonna do that so i stopped sharing my my screen i am asking the first line and let me okay yes sorry do you see the slides yes i can see this light [Music] interesting because i don't see that so you see the slides because my problem is that i don't see them you you might need to switch around on one of those top top icons presentation view gallery view one of those should give you slides so i have to share something presentation view maybe okay good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "so uh basically shall i start yeah yeah sure go ahead thank you so in this version we have integrated all the comments and discussions with christian carson and we have give it also a little bit of restructuring and we understand that we have now the version that we expected after all these discussions and we also added a annex regarding how to use graphite with tls which is something that has was commented but we did not add something concrete until now but we we added in annex so if we can go to the next slide we have the summary of the main topics we have been adding to or modified in some meaningful way in regard with the last version so we added a some discussion about the discovery of the authenticator we added some of the the recommendation from christian to send a resource in the first message we are also sending the sender id and recipient id for oscor instead of calculating it as part of the derivation of the material also to improve the the way of choosing these these identifiers we confirm the the use of oscar for doing the key confirmation of co-op if we also added some consideration for the use of proxies and basically we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "gave a definition of a silver structure to carry some information for the negotiations and finally we we show the current flow operation and we give some comments in this presentation regarding how dtls can be used in in the annex so in the next slide please basically uh for a discovery of the ip authenticator since copied is expected to be used in different iot environments we leave it out of the scope but we added some discussion of how can this be done we understand that co-op brings some tools to the table for a resource disco discovery and we are using that as part of co-op but in terms of getting the information of the ipv6 of the border router or the entity in the domain with which the ip authenticator is going to talk to we leave that out of the scope but there are different approaches that could be considered depending on the deployment scenario such as dhcp or multicast dns so next slide please so one of the modifications we make to the flow operation to to save bytes over the of the link is to send in the first message from the e-pier to the authenticator is to send in the payload the uri of the resource that is being created in the iot device for attending the next exchange so this saves the flow operation from having to use the well-known uri they co-appear well on uri twice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "so it is a cleaner approach and the next slide please another thing that we do we do is to send in the second and the third message uh the uh along with the ip message we send in a silver structure the crypto street negotiation the values of the christian scriptures with negotiation and we also send in the request and response the sender id and response id for uh oscor this is uh this can all this can also be reused as key id for the tls as we will comment in the last uh [Music] part of the of the presentation but this is the the basic idea of this exchange uh the next slide please so we maintain the use of oscor in this case in the basic exchange as a way of confirming that the key material derived from the hip authentication is established correctly and we double down on on the use of a score by establishing the oscars security association that could be used from that point on to secure any exchange between the iot device and the controller to do so what what we propose uh and also think uh i i want to take a second to thank christian answers for his input on this uh we create a a a template an incomplete oscore"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "security context that is missing the key which is completed after the authentication is is completed and what we do is that upon reception of the if success what we do is to complete the oscar security context and be able to complete the key confirmation uh the the detail here is that uh basically we generally generate the the the needed context but we need to use the oscar message the first task or message as a alternate success indication for ip because the content is ciphered so we use the first oscar message as an alternative success indication for the state machine to release the msk and then complete the process and with the recipient and sender id that are now sent in the previous message we are able to to complete the whole process the next slide please basically we also have a a brief comment about the use of proxies because in the exchange there is a role reversal in qua from the first message in which the iot device acts as a client but on the rest of the exchange it is a cloud server so this that is something that needs to be considered when using proxies to send any needed information to the controller uh to be able to use the service through a proxy so this this additional"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "information could be sent also in the in the server structure that it is defined so we are preparing this structure maybe the next slide i think is is there yes so we define a silver structure that carries some of the information that we need to exchange for cyberspeed negotiation the sender id recipient id also the authorization information such as session lifestyle maybe we can we put it as extensible so maybe we if we need in the future to add some additional information and we can do so uh in this structure to add maybe a further a feature or another functionality so that's also integrated in the next version and i think that we are close to to the end in here you can see the current exchange of operation and now it is cleaner we have us abstracted ourselves from confirmable and concrete mobile messages and just focused on the basic exchange there you can see how the context is created when the negotiation is done and basically when the msk is derived it is used as in the in the seventh message to complete the oscar context and to send the eighth message confirming the the key and finishing the club exchange lastly in the in the in the last slide we add in the annex some considerations for using for establishing a dtls security association that could be used instead of oscar and for this we are reducing the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "fields as a source core we also do a crypto suite negotiation for for dtls the key id for the dtrs pressure key is generated in this case by concatenating the center id and recipient id and in here as we do with oscor we consider the client hello message from dtls as an urgent exercise indication to be able to to obtain from the state machine the msk and be able to run the dtis so that that that's it thank you very much for your time want to have some comments yeah so so from my point of view um the the document is ready to be shipped to the isg so that's uh that's to me the next step for for that document so if anyone has concerns if anyone see any issues clarifications um i mean it's time to show up um and you have until then i would say the end of the week to to to raise your concerns so i'm hearing no comments um i think that the document is uh pretty much ready and i suggest that we move to the next presentation so it's uh probably gonna be marco yes i can hear that yeah great uh i can't share those lights if it's okay to you yeah so you have to request this okay yeah do you get those i think you'll have sharing as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "yeah uh i think yeah you have to clear your sharing first before i can go on so i have to stop sharing the slides yourself oh yeah i am sharing those yeah i thought so i uh sharing slides stop sharing slightly yeah sorry huh not requested okay great okay i guess this should be the one uh this is an update on keygroup com most of this was mentioned at the latest interim so uh i'll be i'll be fairly quick um this revision was major and it was about addressing two reviews we got from working group plus called uh from your random sick them thank you very much for that and to give a recap word clarifications on general terminology and use and semantics of some parameters and messages both in the phases of token uploading to the kdc and then later on joining process for a new candidate group member another clarification was related to the overall table of content uh since texting the draft was parsed here and there with a lot of repetitions so now it's much more linear with error handling mentioned uh once and for all about its uh common general part uh when introducing the kbc interface and then we go through the uh resources at the kdc one by one followed by handler one example i'm going to example um and so on in terms of design changes it was also agreed to bring into this document the definition already of some parameters that were otherwise defining keygroup common score where they remain used"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and we define here some new parameters for enabling uh control messages that the kdc can send over multicast and in particular when using advanced uh group raking schemes and related to that also uh a resource about the public key of the kdc initially defining figure common score was transferred here and remained used there uh as requested especially by iran we also enforce the categorization of the parameters defined in this document and used in its messages as must should may be supported by devices leaving some of them conditional to support and leaving to profiles to have a final word on this as a requirement and we categorize also functionalities that have to be minimally or additionally supported by devices with profiles to follow this categorization also for possibly even more uh new defined parameters and also we also gave some more guidelines on error wrangling when enhanced animal responses are used following overall the same rationale considered in the main ace framework as also requested in the reviews we collected all the text we had sparse in the document about uh group wrecking now we have a single section about that introducing the overall problem and task at hand we introduced an optimization about possibly including uh public keys of just joined uh new members in the working messages and we give high-level guidelines and examples about different approaches that can be used uh to perform a group routine like the very basic one-to-one or one-to-many using pub sub or multicast but extreme details leading to actual content and encoding to use on the yr are up to yet other documents that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "should describe how a particular raking scheme uh is used in this context possibly considering even the specific profile of this document uh so as a summary this version has addressed all the working group last call reviews as far as i can tell plus additional comments we got uh during the july meeting so we also extended abstract an introduction to clarify even better um the the scope and the goals of this document in in this group com landscape and we also extended the security consideration to highlight the the big amount of trust that we are putting on the kdc in the first place and what that implies i'm not aware at this point of any other open issues uh or open points to address uh as authors so we believe this is now ready for a next step we should be shepherd review and write up that should be the last one thank you yeah so um my comment would be similar to the prison to the previous presentation is that this document is going to be shipped to the ihg very soon so if you have any concerns please do raise them by the end of the week okay i think we can go on with the next presentation okay coming up okay and this is kegro kamal score a profile of the previous uh draft uh specific for the use of group of score in groups and everything i've done for this version was really uh adopting the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "to make this trust this draft consistent with the previous one so moving out parameters and resources in terms of their definition as i mentioned was still used here and a lot of alignment to be done in terms of terminology uh parameter semantics and the optimization of possibly including public keys and wreaking messages and so on and the categorization of parameters and operations is now also enforced here uh and this document is now overall following the updated list of requirements for profiles of sql.com that we have now uh most of the clarifications that were done in aceke.com were were also to be done again here for new parameters and resources defined brand new uh in this document uh there was some clarification requested on uh who can access what resource to do what and on error handling and on ayana considerations but relatively uh minor things i would say and really to summarize i think this version 12 is now stable version 11 was already but this is now aligned with the also stable and versions of keygroup conforting and also of the grupo score document in core as a reminder i have an implementation of this draft for eclipse californium where the group manager acting is kdc supports but the group mode and pairwise mode is used in the score groups also about this document i'm not aware of any further remaining issues or or open points uh so i think uh it can be considered now for uh working group plus goal um as a heads up the the grouposcore documenting core is also uh going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "approach its second working group last call in fact which is good but uh of course we cannot exclude all together that the group will score documenting core with possible uh future updates is going to uh to affect this document in turn to adapt something it's just the way it works as we keep updating the documents in the later stages but right now they are stable and consistent with one another yeah this is my last slide yeah so my my understanding for um for this uh document is that we will issue um a walking deal classical uh very shortly so you will have a two weeks a two week window to make any comment i would like um people to commit to review that so um please um i mean um just um i don't want to to waste a lot of time on that but do we have anyone in the room that is planning to review the document okay current it's just you want to speak no i just want to review okay good so that's uh that's very helpful okay so we will go through the working group last goal and um thank you karen for the review and um hopefully have that shipped by the end of the month thank you thanks so i know i have two more presentations in the agenda but in the interest of time which one should i pick so um i i suggest that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "we focus on the new adapted um a potentially new uh work item to adopt so i would encourage you to to go to the token okay yes uh i have to give an update on this one it's now in version 6. i think it was presented last time in november last year but of course we've kept working on it the whole year so as a recap the problem here is that access tokens can of course expire but can be revoked for a number of reasons uh before they reach expiration time and the problem is how to make this evident to the involved parties so the clients and resource servers having an interest and involved in the use of that token uh you have token introspection available of course but practically only for um resource servers that in case have to take the initiative and request the authorization server to introspect one token at a time this document in addition so to complement not really replace an introspection defines a new service a new interface at the authorization server which basically preserve uh keeps uh one single resource a token revocation list intended to keep let's say short identifiers of tokens that are revoked at the moment but not yet expired and then both client and authorization and resource server sorry register that that authorization server can access that resource uh through a get operation possibly observe that resource uh to be informed possibly through automatic notifications about their pertaining access tokens that are revoked but uh not expired yet and when doing so they in fact retrieve information only about the tokens pertaining them not really all of the access tokens issued by the authorization server and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "there is really no need for new ace endpoints here defined that client or resource server this resource is at the authorization server so for identifying these revoked tokens to inform about we don't use the the token cti or anything like that we actually compute the hash of the token using the 6920 approach of naming things with with hashes and the hash input is the only thing that all the three parties involve c as identical so the value of the access token parameter in the response from the authorization server when the token is issued and the resource identization server is basically a list of the token ashes of the tokens that are revoked but not expired yet and when registering at the authorization server uh the client service or server learn the exact url where to contact uh the authorization server for for the trl endpoint and well can interact with it as i say to to learn about the revoked access token uh this can work actually in three different modes of operation and the first one is very simple and mandatory to implement for uh the authorization server uh say the client just like a resource server can send a get or get observed request and retrieve back all uh the token ashes for the pertaining token tokens that are revoked there are two more advanced diff query modes uh so the one in the middle requests for the n most recent updates uh occurred most recently uh to the pertaining part of the trl so pertaining to to the requesting node and can be supported uh we developed a third mode out of input from karsten about considering the series transfer pattern and about then i think at the november meeting uh last year about considering retrieving not really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "that the end most recent updates but actually the the most recent updates following a certain uh resumption point um in time and putting things together we actually developed this mode which is currently an appendix but we have an ambition to to move it up to the uh document body and it's now also detailed in terms of uh yeah message payload uh error handling and so on uh in the latest versions uh other than developing the uh the stp based mode we added a number of clarifications about the difference modes uh the early registration process and the error rendering we had the possible additional use of the pmax attribute as a query parameter when requesting to observe that's something defined in the co-working group and basically the client original server is really requesting the authorization server to send observed notifications here and there with maximum silence maximum intervals of silence between one and another to be kept posted and yeah we defined bit more in detail in the recent versions how to format the messages for the most advanced um operation mode uh most recent review we got or comments on the list were from michael richardson about a number of very useful clarifications of different aspects of the document that are also integrated now in the latest version so to sum up this is an additional service that the authorization server can provide to both a client and resource service to um inform about access tokens that are revoked but not expired yet and that information can be accessed still in a polling fashion with simple gets or it can also benefit from automatic notification using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "uh co-op observe uh this is building uh on input from carson and then especially on the advanced mode recent comments from michael and if you uh go back to old versions of the draft we really built uh on initial comments from jim and the review uh from trevi spencer the big mess that we have in mind is moving the third most advanced mode of operation up to the document body and to integrate it better with the other two to make everything look more homogeneous but um otherwise we think the document is is stable in its latest version and i'm aware of an ongoing implementation from a cnr uh research institute in italy they are building on our implementation of va's framework on eclipse california and i'm assisting with that so overall we believe uh this isn't a good shape to be considered to be adopted as a working document okay so anyone um i'm just um i'd just like to understand how many people have read one of the version of that document please just uh raise your hands some are also mentioned in in this draft in this slide sorry yeah yeah well what is worth and um um how many people would like to to review that document if adopted christians is willing to review in the chat okay anyone is opposed to this draft moving forward [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:07",
    "text": "okay so i'm hearing no position so um i would start a call for adoption please um do state whether you're in favor or against uh very clearly so that we can um we can be something else in a parking lot for um document okay so thank you um marco thank you um i suggest that we we do um a presentation on um the tns oscar profile and that we we then switch back to the um to the gm admin from marco if time permits and i suppose we will have time for that okay thank you so i'm joran salander and i'm going to talk about this draft this is just once this presentation is just one slide long and you see the title of the of the sl draft here the the purpose of this draft is to discuss the applicability of another draft uh with the dtls profile of the ace framework to tls and the content of the draft this was submitted late i should say so it was in in the two week weeks period between the submission deadline and and the meeting and we just uploaded uh that on monday uh as a compensation this is a very short draft so the content is essentially what stated in this slide it's saying that the dtls profile of ace applies to tls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "as well as dtls and we could use the same access token the same profile so that's the content of this draft and and the rationale for using this is for example in in case uh udp might be blocked and you would rather use uh tls and tcp for nat and firewall traversal for example and there is another context as well and that's the um that 3dpp has started looking at i think the use of co-op and in this service-based architecture where they all already have adopted tls 1.3 and oauth 2.0 and when they now add co-op to this setting ace makes a natural a natural solution to the authorization problem so that's basically my presentation and and the question is for the working group is uh first of all do you think this is uh do you like this do you agree with this this procedure of having a uh a statement just about applicability of something um do we need a separate draft can we solve it in some other way could we could we for instance consider including this sentence or this paragraph in the ace details authorized draft which is currently in auth 48 so it's it's kind of late yep that's my question thank you any any spontaneous answers do we have an ad in the meeting at the moment i think we have two ladies in the meeting at the moment um so i mean yes you're right from a technical sense we could pull the details profile back from all 48 and try"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "to add to it uh but that's a pretty heavy hammer at this point and i feel like i would want to redo like the last call process and get some uh visibility into the iesg about it and i'm fairly reluctant to take that approach i guess i'm not going to rule it out entirely but i think there is a fair bit of overhead and i would want to get a fair bit of review to try and get this change in at such a late stage and so my preference would be to not do that and yes it feels a little silly to do a two-page document but sometimes it might be the right choice i'm also happy to hear if there are other opinions in the room please john yeah i was would it really need the last call isd added dtls 1.3 without having a last call i would say that's actually a bigger change than this change this would i don't see any the draft before mention some dtls one or two details which have now been fixed but for the tls i don't think there's any changes needed at all then you're saying what this drop does that this also works for tls right like it looks like there's no changes needed but i i feel like i would want the review to confirm that there are no changes needed because sometimes there can be subtle differences between tls and dtls that come up i don't have an example off the top of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "my head because it's early in the morning today but i feel like there have been some cases when i'm doing isg review of other documents where they they want to combine them together and there's some subtle difference that needs special treatment usually i think that would show up when you start with tls and you're trying to add dtls less clear what the issues would be going the other direction but i i think there's enough of a risk that i don't want to just make the change at the last minute without actually giving it some thought okay fair enough thanks thanks for that what so what's your proposal do you want to review this and then make a decision or is the decision or your at least your strong recommendation here that we go for uh making it separate draft uh so i guess my q is currently a little bit long so i think my recommendation would be to go ahead and adopt this draft and if i happen to have the time to look at it sooner we could maybe short circuit that process but i think adopting this draft would be a reliable process that we can get started on now and would not be blocking on me indefinitely okay okay thank you then i'm i'm done with the presentation so um one thing um it's not clear um to me if it has been said but um um to a little bit of context my understanding is that the request to extend the dtls profile to tls i mean to address the tls use case has been raised by 3gpp and so my recommendation is that we had we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "start a working group adoption for this document and move that document pretty i mean pretty fast so i would like to have a lot of people to review this document that is shorter than the slide so just as a short questions i would like to see how many people have read or willing to review this document please raise your hand so we have only one person okay anyone opposed to that document to be okay so i i'm gonna start with a call for adoption um um keep in mind that we we need to when we adopt a document we need to make to have a sufficient confidence that um the document is gonna end to to um be thrown to the isgs so um similarly to the previous document uh clearly state whether you're um you're gonna review the document or you support it and um and we will see how it goes um i think we have time for marco for your last gm presentation so please go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "great so i requested uh sharing powers can you grant them to me oh yeah thank you do you have it yes there we are okay um this is also um an update about oscar germany now version 4 and i think this was also presented last time november last year to recap this is uh another restful interface at the same oscore group manager of the keygroup draft but this interface is intended for administrator users to create delete configure reconfigure uh the oscar groups that that group manager is responsible for and right now we are already supporting interactions based both on link format and sybor or with corel in bottom line at the group manager this interface exports a single root resource for the sake of creating new group configurations and retrieving the current list um and when a group is created you have a child resource of this of this root resource the child resource is associated with a specifically accreted group and and contains as value the configuration uh currently used for that group clearly here the ace client is the administrator and the resource server is again the group manager and to put all the functionalities in one slide again the root resource allows the administrator to create a new group or retrieve the list of existing groups all of them or part of them using a fetch with a filtering criteria and then for each child resource associated to a particular oscar group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "you can retrieve the current configuration so the list of parameters describing how that group works all of them or part of the answer fetch you can entirely override the current configuration with a new one using uh put or as recently introduced you can use a patch for just selectively updating that configuration altering only some parameters or you can delete all together the group configuration thus deleting uh the uh oscar group altogether uh what updates have we introduced in the last three versions um error endling got improved mostly for the sake of chasing how that uh changed in in ace group com from which we are reusing again the same uh content format and rational for parameters and their semantics we started to seriously build on on an idea that uh christian triggered when this document started about having multiple administrators not only one that can have to do with the same oscar group and the direction we are taking now is that you have for sure a primary administrator that creates a group configuration and can do anything on that but at the same time you can also have additional um secondary administrators that might be allowed to do at least something uh on on the group configuration they didn't create uh themselves and to practically enforce this it is about defining the semantics of the scope we have in the access token for this uh kind of application and we are not done yet but we have sketched uh the technical direction we are taking already in a section we currently have as a placeholder and that requires more work uh otherwise as i mentioned we have recently introduced the possibility to perform a selective update on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "configuration on the oscar group um through uh patch and while if you do a put you really override all together a group configuration and if you don't specify some parameter you fall for default values uh with patch you really act on the only parameters you specify uh making them take the exact new value you specify uh it's pretty straightforward for most of the parameters it's really about specifying the pair parameter name new parameter value there's an exception for a structured parameter up groups which is a list of names or a list of strings if you want to think of that so it's a bit more tricky with with patch but we we have also defined how that can be um handled uh you basically have two possible ways uh each with pros and cons uh you can't combine them in the same request uh but you can choose what better fits uh the particular request ahead uh also we improved a bit how default values uh are handled speaking of which uh as i said when creating a group or overriding its configuration if a parameter is not specified the group manager is supposed to consider a recommended default value in case for some strong reason the group manager doesn't do that and goes for a different value than the recommended default one uh the chosen value assigned to the parameter has to be included in the response given back to the administrator that's good for for consistency and good knowledge and also for possible follow-up uh registrations at the resource directory for group discovery but the details are all in the draft we have also defined some new configuration parameters for the oscar groups in case those oscar groups allow the usage of cachability of responses protected"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "with oscar and that mechanism is defined in another code draft here we just defined the parameters uh describing how the group works in that respect so that that information can be consistently provided to uh to join in nodes when they join through the join interface defined in the other document this reference here to korkashabaloskar is informative at the moment i think it can remain for informative because for the sake of this document you don't really need to understand how the mechanics of kashaboloskar really work you just need to pick up those two concepts here mapped into two parameters so hopefully that can indeed remain an informative reference uh but i'm happy to hear uh feedback in the other direction in case um other than this it was mostly about keeping this document up to date and the line to changes happening in document related to it meaning keygroup com kyogre muscle and the group of score documents in core so that's just a summary of what i've just said for your convenience uh of course we are not done yet i think the main next step is defining in detail the semantics we want for for scope in the tokens here so that we can enable both a primary administrator creating a group and doing whatever it wants with that but also possibly additional secondary administrator that can do something on groups they didn't create themselves uh and again we have a direction sketched uh pretty well in in the draft already but i was hoping that a discussion a bit more in detail around this to get early feedback can happen at some of the next um asynchrony meeting if possible and just get early feedback and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "that's it i think comments input are welcome of course any any comment please christian um just briefly on the topic of the informative reference to deterministic score if that doesn't work out as an informative reference um it should be possible to just remove that part and move that part over to deterministic all score where it would then be published later so i don't expect any showstopper there yeah i i made a first attempt here because having this in the cacheable oscar document would require to bring up a lot of context from this draft that could could make the document a bit heavier but yeah in case we can go for it it's it's i prefer it to be here but if it doesn't work out we can do that thank you okay so um i think we we've had we've um we have three minutes left so um i'd like to give those three minutes to our ad if he has anything to say and basically conclude this meeting so thank you to all the presenters for um making that uh happen and that we i mean we were able to to do all the agenda items during this meeting and i'm leaving the floor to ben and wishing you a happy ietf yeah uh thanks since you passed it over to me i will just say that the main action item on my front relating to this working group is that the mqtt"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "profile i know has published a revision uh and i have not yet had a chance to look that over i expect that there will be a lot of good changes in there and hopefully i can go directly to a itf last call after that i was trying to clear out my publication queue uh in the week weeks leading up to this meeting but i actually got a little bit sick and that really disrupted my my pace through the queue so i'm feeling better now and i hope to continue uh during and after the meeting that's the update from my end and have a good itf week and we'll see you and gather thank you thank you bye bye bye bye everyone thank you bye"
  }
]
