[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "you handle the key with all that stuff i don't think i have that but you use that too by the way can you manage the room yeah sure testing yes all right good afternoon everyone welcome to philadelphia this is the transport area meeting if you are if you are not interested in the transport area open meeting please find yourself another room but i expect we'll have a fairly uh interesting discussion today i'm martin duke one of the transport ads and this is ahead all right okay this is the note well some of you already seen this once this week you'll see it many more times basically please read it if you're not familiar with it it covers a lot of intellectual property principles to follow here at ietf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "you can find it in any search engine again for those of you who are just getting started here at iatf are some meeting tips on how to use mute echo if you are here i strongly encourage you to use your mobile device to join miracle lite which will allow you to enter the queue we will manage an electronic queue today um and uh of course if you're a remote you've already figured out how to use meat echo um and as always please mute yourself if you're out there online oh also the policy here is to please wear your mask um i see if you're not presenting so so those of you who are here i see pretty good compliance so um thank you and of course here's some you know transport area we're always helping to um summarize the state of the area for you here at 114 so here's some more information about the meeting okay our agenda's going to be a little different than usual i historically have an invited talk uh i will do a lot more talking than normal but um hopefully other people talk as well there'll be a plenty of opportunity for that we'll run through as quickly as possible our normal kind of summary of how things are going in transport area we will move up the open mic to the beginning for any non-congestion control working group topics um and once that is we'll we'll cap that at 10 minutes and then we'll leave the balance of the time to discuss the congestion control working proposal if you have not if you've no idea what i'm talking about there's an email on the tsv area list that you can consult that could maybe give you a quick intro to what we're going to talk about here today and if you have not read that already or the associated github i encourage you to do so all right i'm not going to read through all this but um a lot of stuff has happened as always um in the transport area uh across numerous"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "working groups everyone pretty much every work group is making good progress on his charter um the only thing i really want to call out here is thanks to wes eddie from the tsvwg who um was brought on as a third working group chair specifically to help with the um very intense work of getting l4s through the system and network is larger than pete now thank you wes and thank you to everyone else who contributed to that quite robust process is there anything in particular you'd like to say uh no i think i think people can read it from there i think only i think of course like quick has been the champion of deliverables and we have one working group nfsd4 which is basically slow progressing but we'll see like this this in this item meeting we're going to discuss more about how to progress on that one i think you guys will be there and put your thoughts on it also later this week mask is likely to begin its rechartering discussion so if that is something that you have input on please find the time to join mask um very productive uh interim for for the um transport area a ton of very important rfcs hp3 uh is obviously probably the most salient but major deliverables for also major deliverables for for um ippm and uh sctp like obviously another major transport protocol we did a complete revision of that spec so nice work to everyone involved there's a lot of work and a whole bunch more stuff in the queue including 793 bis tcp probably foundational document of the transport area i dare say has completed its revision so good work everybody this is our three times a year blurb for the trans for the transport area review team um uh as area directors we find it um incredibly useful for other transport experts to get put another pair of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "transport and aware eyes on drafts that come before us from other areas it really informs our reviews um it's always looking for reviewers and as you can see the number in parentheses there is how many they had to do since itf 113 exceeds averaging out to about a half a document per session so i don't think anyone would claim that as an incredibly onerous workload so if this is something that intrigues you to get a little broader exposure to what is going on across the itf please consider volunteering you can contact either wes or magnus to join the team and thank you to our reviewers um we also have an area director ship coming up for march and so i'm going to pass the mike to zahed yeah so i think uh you know like i'm coming looking for um for announcing did you hear me right the sponsor you were complaining about okay so yeah so if um so it's about like nominating yourself or somebody can you if you think somebody can be a good transporter you can nominate nominate and that person um the thing is like i can i can tell you to explain my experience of running uh sitting on the isg uh doing the transport id yes i must conference like you have to do some extra work but that's the part of the job i mean you you read about you different things you care about different things there might be some fireworks that you need to firefight [Music] so but it's it's exciting i'm sitting there for uh one term it's exciting and i would encourage everybody to actually for the sake of your own experience and for the sake of the serving the community please comfort nominate yourself or nominate who you think should be running for the uh area director position thank you yes well zahid has definitely been a great idea great partner it is always important for the community to have choices and um i think a a one-person"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "race is is never um good for anything so please do consider and feel free to spoke to i speak to either meteors ahead if you have any questions about what being what an area directorship is like i think we'll both have pretty positive to say about it thank you feel free to reach me i mean i'm here to help you okay a couple of important uh notable side meetings that have some pertinence to well actually one's not a side meeting but some some transport related things that are not on the area agenda number one there is a um you can see there the details of a side meeting about openssl there's some discontent in the community and that opus open ssl support for quick is going to be um not what some implementers had hoped and um rich sals from akamai is hosting this meeting to talk about a possible way forward um i don't want at the danger of summarizing incorrectly i'm going to say something with maybe forking openssl and moving it to apache um to find out more you're gonna have to go there i don't have any more details also iot ops is having a uh presentation by kathleen nichols and uh van jacobson about um define trust transport um it is aimed at limited domains and you know which is why it's sitting in over iot ops and we had a fairly packed agenda here at tsv area so we could not take this talk but as this as the um as the draft title there suggests there are very significant transport elements to it and i'm sure that the proponents would love to have a good transport area showing on friday to attend that talk and um ask good questions okay before before we get to that um before we get to the main subject today uh i think it's time for open mic if anyone has any issues not related to the congestion working group you would like to discuss with either of us area directors or the area as a whole now would be the time to enter the cue or approach the mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:09",
    "text": "going once anyone in the queue no going twice all right everyone wants to talk about the main event great can i see a show of hands of who read the email that i sent that introduced this topic okay about three quarters of the room maybe a little bit more so that's good in that case i will move through this relatively quickly to give you guys more chance for some discussion um just very briefly uh why are we doing this uh there's there's three problems of varying severity uh related to congestion control and for now i'm going to table the question of what we should call congestion control that's an interesting discussion that i don't think we have time to get into today but what we commonly know is known as noaa's congestion control is a difficult process to get through as i think anyone who tried to do it recently can attest um and it is so difficult that in fact many actors in the internet simply deploy things at scale maybe with a sidcom paper and then come and sort of ask for ratification and that's not um that's sort of forfeiting our our the ability of the congressional experts in this room to shape those things before they reach scale and so that's not in my view of particularly healthy way for the internet to develop furthermore our only actual proposed standard is reno new reno which is um not not dead in the internet but is a distinct minority of tcp traffic and so we are our so-called standard does not really reflect the reality of what is going on out in the real world um today iccrg our kind of sister research group is not um is not really is not producing documents for the most part and lastly uh tcp has traditionally been the venue for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "connection control discussions because it was by far the most important consumer of that but now we have four communist controls of varying relevance and increasing relevance that all use very similar conjecture control mechanisms and um have them all having to all be sort of t speed native seems to be an antiquated uh uh conception of them so before we go sure we need the note trigger yes yes i had a very good point of order um we actually need someone to take minutes um and we forgot to get a volunteer beforehand for and a jabber scribe um there's no need to take notes for what's happening everything's i've just been reading slides up to now so there's no need to uh try to retro con but do i have a volunteer for either jake in the back for minutes thank you and uh thank you jake and uh the um uh that talking uh of from this from the chat thing jonathan thank you very much all right okay painless thank you everyone um okay so what would be the two things that what are the there's a two-prong strategy to kind of address this problem one is to beef up iccrg this is really a matter for the iccrg chair uh johnny ingar and uh of course the irtf chair colin perkins we've spoken to colin and uh i think there's interest in certainly getting a co-chair and maybe expanding its its it's uh de facto scope to include more experimental rfc production uh and the second step is to charter a new working group uh here in the transport area of the ietf um it's kind of short-term goal would be to revise the process and we'll talk about that in a minute and then also to be open to standards track proposals i don't know what will emerge there's certainly a number of candidates out there i don't know what will be ready for standardization in the near future but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "this would be part of the purpose of that group okay so here in a perfect world we get through all four of these questions today we don't need to get through all four of these questions today so i'm just going to run through them in order certainly i'd like to get at least through a couple so let's start with the first one do we agree that the problem as i stated it is a problem um okay we can just let's see is there a cue how are we going to do this can we just all enter the queue through the is that okay with everyone if if if you can't enter the queue through the tool just raise your hand and wide you manually so jonah yes okay wonderful uh thank you for taking this off and thank you voting my question martin um so i i i think this needs i i don't i don't know what the problem is that we're speaking about here there were two things that here on the y slide if you could go back to that slide um i think the second one is a logistical problem no go back yeah the second one was a logistical problem i want to talk about the first and the third because i think those are the fundamental ones right um so the on the on the first problem it's yes it's hard to get documents through the process but i don't think that you talk about the there being more standard but reno the problem here isn't that it's hard to get cubic through the idf yes it is and we can solve it in other ways but i don't think that that is the fundamental problem here for instance i've been trying to get bbr documented and through the process we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "had a lot of presentations from the google folks over the i'd say past few years we've had a lot of uh talk there but what i've not seen is actual documentation and tracking of the document through a working group like process and there's a fundamental reason why that doesn't happen and prime that primarily doesn't happen because condition control remains unilateral you don't need multiple parties to agree on exactly what it needs to do and getting people in the room to talk about exactly how this ought to be done and how this should be done correctly or well is not something that is necessary for uh progress of deployment of this thing so if anybody is proposing a new condition control protocol not protocols or a new conditional controller they don't need ratification from anybody and they can't deploy it if they have the ability to do it and it happens so it is fundamentally different than any other standards work that we do so i want to call that out finally on the third point i want to say that with tcp act be quick and dccp sctp and dc have been around for 20 years right so if the problems of multiple transports we have had that before and we've used tsvwt as a place to solve that problem in the past um so i'll say that the question to me when you ask do we agree on the question it's not clear to me exactly what is the question i don't want to talk about the solution of a new working group i just want to understand which problem we are trying to solve here okay i think i should probably try to answer that so um so right so the iccrg thing is slightly orthogonal to um to the proposal on the table today uh but i do think it's important to understand that that that part of the for us to solving this overall problem of sort of having a path to standardization is to have a more robust irtf presence that is producing experimental drafts because i think that's a clearly intermediate step to standardizing conjecture controls so the the problem so the problem to solve is to fix the process rfc 5033"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "defines the process and um i think it was written i mean without i don't want to get into it but i think it was written in a different time and uh maybe needs to be reviewed and that would be the first deliverable for this working group jonathan um i would respect respectfully disagree with jonah that it is um a unilateral thing uh to deploy a congestion control it does interact with other congestion controls sharing the same bottlenecks in the network and um well there needs to be at least some compatibility there's also the possibility of future congestion controls which uh work in a different paradigm than the current ones and so [Music] uh current assumptions might not be valid so i think having somewhere to discuss all that specifically you would be at least interesting thank you tourists oh i'm sorry gory my mistake hi you hear me yes great okay so yeah i mean i think there's a lot of truth in what you just said martin our guiding rfcs here are very old they come from a different age i like the idea to do something i haven't yet seen any proposal which might work for a replacement i think i have heard also the reason better loss"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "recovery or lower latency is something we can easily code for we can easily measure it's cool we people will deploy people get the better one when you come to congestion control it's more tricky to demonstrate that you don't have a significant impact on other flaws that use different algorithms or different types of bottleneck that isn't so easy to measure it requires quite a lot of evaluation from partners who aren't the key partners who want to deploy the new thing so this is a tricky thing to get right i don't think it should be an obstacle i think we should move on but we should also admit that this one is a tricky thing to measure so tricky to measure definitely need to update the words that guide this because they're they're old now toilets yeah i wanted to maybe get up to the level where i see um the the working group can really help and and that is that now as you said we don't only have one protocol that you know uh where we keep alive you know hundreds of phd every year to improve congestion control on them um but uh we've got quick right and there is the opportunity and and the big risk that i see that a lot more you know novel work is going to be done only on quick even though that's completely unnecessary so the biggest reason i think give or take all these wonderful details corey and and myself and everybody else will then punch you with but high level take it out of protocol specific working groups and make sure that everything congestion control is done once and applied equally to the different protocols that we have that are applicable to it seems like for the most general purposes it's at least you know quick ntcp and maybe others as well but uh making it modular so that i mean i've seen in so many other places in the it have the duplication of work right uh where often it is necessary right let's say you know isis ospf we redo millions of encodings right just because we started twice uh let's try to see if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "can you know stop this from happening now between quick and tcp and that would be you know the the biggest starting point and whenever you have more questions about thousands of details that i think we will disagree on but i think this is the most important one to have the working group thank you um matt joris so please introduce your name before you start speaking meta and co-chair quick uh so one thing that kind of building on what gory said is that i find that the current discussion is somewhat lacking nuance in terms of distinguishing loss recovery from congestion control um so a lot of the proposed charter notes and a lot of the discussion has focused mostly on congestion control um and loss recovery is kind of in there as a sort of bolted on thing and they're not strictly you know they're related concepts but not really the same thing and i think it has implications in so far as how we develop mechanisms for different protocols uh loss recovery is often very protocol specific so as an example for quick we have uh currently several adopted documents that uh where loss recovery is a integral part of what the documents are focusing on um and those being able to know like where where the scope is like what what should be discussed by this proposed group versus like what should be discussed by the individual uh quick working group would be useful to know and what people think about that sort of thing because they're you know lost recovery is not necessarily done the same way between protocols and neither is congestion control but loss recovery especially is can be very protocol specific thank you matt david"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:05",
    "text": "martin i certainly admire your uh your bravery and i hope it's that not something else as this is a very complex space you've waded into on question one do i agree there's a problem i would agree there is at least one problem if you look at how congestion manifests in the internet writ large there are at least three interesting domains there is the access network where we have uh inconvenient things like uh wi-fi and mobile devices that can't always send when they want to and have to deal with uh with radio interference we have the backbones where for the most part we've evolved an operational paradigm that existence and evidence of congestion is existence and evidence of operator error then we have data centers which are a completely different world and i've seen a number of data center congestion control ideas sort of come into the ietf and go nowhere because we focus on the capital i internet and these data center congestion control ideas are highly optimized for very low latency i know what my hardware is i know how i put it together i know what he does environments and hence won't fly on the general uh open internet so a yes is a problem i think we do doing something about it and we are as part of that figure out what we do or don't want to do about data center congestion control china i think i i miss a little bit of what uh david said at the end there but i want to ask i think this is what i was trying to do at the beginning i didn't do a good job of it there are a uh i want to separate the discussion if if i may and then i don't want to go the discussion here but at least i want to say that i think we should separate the research part of the discussion there are a lot of phd you know dissertations on construction"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "control and a lot of people publishing papers that's fine we can you know talk about those in iccrg and other places that's one part but i want to separate that from the practical and the deployed construction controller because i think that's the piece that's interesting to the ietf and that's the piece that i think we ought to be interested in um so i'm going to just focus on that for a moment and say that if that's the focus that's a difficult thing to do let's look at the current state of the world if you look at the cancer of the world it's not just reno or cubic that's deployed we've got um bbr we've got compound pcb we've got fast and we've got a huge number of other condition controllers that are deployed right now that have that have nothing to do with the iedf and uh uh i want to call out that if you try to go out and try to get them to publish in the idea the first question they're going to ask you is why why should i come publish a document here what do i get out of it and then trying to keep that motivation and energy going and i i want to i want to share one experience here that we've had right most recently is with bbr i i love the pvr proponents and i think they've done a fantastic job of coming and presenting and discussing at the in iccrg meetings um however there is a continual desire to understand not not on their part but but but i think that that's always been there to understand what the purpose of engaging uh in document form at least not just in you know talking and presenting what's going on but in document and publishing a document going through the pain of actually publishing an rfc rather than just putting out a blog post or a simple paper um what is the value of doing that and in it is my opinion somebody else you can disagree with me if you want my is my opinion that there isn't a value to them of getting a document published in the standards track because there is no standard here to be published by the time it gets to the standard set two years from now the document the algorithm is not going to be the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and it shouldn't be the same it's evolving it's continuously evolving condition control is not static yes we have reno as a document that doesn't mean that what's deployed out there is what is published in the document it's not you've got all kinds of variants deployed out there right even of the simplest lino algorithm um so i i it's fundamentally difficult to try and capture this to try and take this thing and put it in a bottle and try to fit it in the form that we have for rfcs or for idf documents because those are fundamentally for interoperable standards condition control is not an interoperable standard i want to say one one last thing to matt's point about loss recovery i completely agree loss recovery is a separate uh but important thing and i want to remind us that we've done this in the past again sctp if you go back to the mid-2000s you will see documents which are like i early retransmit comes to mind limited transmit comes but early transit comes to mind at least we have things in there which have like sections of tcp and scp and you go to the relevant experts to get those portions reviewed and i believe that psvwg used to be the house for it i still will ask the question of what is tsvwg to do if you have a separate uh thing for this what is the what is the overlap and what's the gap between the two algorithms now do it in the two working groups sorry um and and finally last point on data center controllers the problem that you have of motivating people to come document things that they've deployed already in the wild is like 1000 times harder when you get to data center controls because they have really no motivation to come and talk to this people um so i'll ask the question of what do we if if you if we want to charter a new working group for doing construction control work i'd like to see people in the room who are working or have deployed these controllers come"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "up and say yes i want to document these in this working group and i'm happy to review those documents but i want to see people raising hands to say yes i want to document this conditional controller that we've deployed yes that's certainly one of the objectives today to see if people are actually going to write documents um i think genre raises an interesting point which is that if the purpose of the working group is to is to reinvigorate and then use a process to generate standards track congestion control occupants if the if the community does not agree that generating standards track congestion control documents is important then we don't need a working group we the research group can publish documents so what but there's people in the queue so now we'll give uh spencer do you have a quick response there david is that yeah this david black uh where my tissue dwg chair chairhead john i asked what is cfdwg going to do if we stop arguing about congestion control useful work please look at the agenda for our meeting coming up next thank you spencer uh spencer dawkins um i had uh two thoughts and i'm trying to remember both of them but let's go let's go with this one one of the things that i wonder about is whether it is useful to break up congestion control into the components that we're talking about like rate control or loss recovery and things like that and see if that if that helps any if you know if there is some component of that that it is particularly controversial or dumb to try to do in the ietf or something like that maybe it would be good to know what that is my second one is i i would remind uh all of us here that working groups can also produce bcps and it seems like to me if one of the things we're trying to do is give a signal that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "competing fairly with new reno is not the only criteria for us to standardize something and that you know this was the discussion we had when we started quick um you know it's like well is anybody going to use that don't care you know it's it's standardized and we you know we we're doing we're doing standardized uh we want to have one standardized uh congestion controller so i mean like for that one i was there so i would i would uh ask the group to consider whether producing a bcp that could guide iccrg so that the icc rg guys can research anything that they want to but also to give them some kind of clue about what the ietf would expect for their output if it's supposed to go into the ietf especially as especially a standards track so because you know right now the the answer is neurino and no one cares and that can't be good guidance for iccrg thank you i'm going to close the queue in a little bit to move on to some of the uh other things that other slides presented but um consider oh if you have a quick response please put it please go ahead i just wanted to respond to janna about uh this is vidi from apple i wanted to respond about whether uh folks are interested in publishing standards track or congestion control yes um we are and i mean at least i am um and i think uh what uh spencer said about that we are using reno as kind of like the only standard stack documents and every time we try to publish something else it's always compared to new reno and maybe new you know shouldn't be a standards track if if that's the case we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "don't want any standards track condition control because we just end up comparing with reno and um i don't know how that's valuable in today's time and when it comes to so i agree there's a problem to the first question and we should um we should publish uh standard stack condition control algorithms and if if that's something that everyone agrees on then where is where what's the place where we do that because there isn't any right now cubic is being uh you know making progress in tcpm it it's not the right place and uh we're also working on l4s condition control and at some point we do want to take it forward from experimental to stance drag so where would we publish that uh so these are some open questions because these apply not to tcpm alone so yeah thank you all right the queue is closed bernard uh yeah it seems to me that rfc 5033 does need to be revised and i think that's fairly uncontroversial and in the process of doing that you may want to try to work through some of the procedural things that people have been talking about here so i think definitely the 50 33 revision should go forward and that may help uh address some of the issues and figure them out over time you don't have to know everything right away to charter this working group thank you torellis yeah so i've i've heard a lot of what shall i say uh you know roman empire chief concern officers and that is all good and important when we want to you know do something for the internet and the next standard or so but i don't think we should be constrained to that um and we should and i think that's always been the problem that i've seen tcpm and tsvwg right so i mean we should hopefully still have experimental as well right i mean as i said that gives you the risk that you know hundreds of phd students with their ideas will come to this working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "and not only stay in iccrg maybe that's not a bad thing if we really want to establish a community focused on um congestion control and then try to figure out if there is one or two experimental ones that we can adopt and slowly start you know having enough experience in the community to really you know get to that long-term standards for the internet right but i also think there are a lot of better congestion controls for controlled networks right i mean we we have the big internet but there's so much more uh tcp quick or so in a lot of other networks whether it's satellite network industrial networks all these networks where we can come up with a lot more you know advanced uh congestion control much more quickly and and not have to bother that much and it's just that you know with the groups we have right now it's very hard to to expand and improve yeah yeah and so uh i think i think there there is a there is a point of like bringing like all the work to itf but there is also a point like having the all the phds and all the all the academic work all the research new research on the condition control go through some sort of like iccrg before coming if this working group happens if it comes to this one because i think this working group if it happens the accepting work will have a really high bar of like getting deployment and getting support where people will be implementing those things and that should be one of the criteria this working in this working group if this happens we'll consider so the other point i'd like to add is that so experimental rfcs can of course come out of the ir or the ietf as a practical matter the irtf bar is i think it's safe to say a little bit lower in terms of just how many detail points it has to pass through um so like as a practical matter if you want experimental rfc irtf is probably easier and i'm frankly fine with that um if there's a strong desire for the actual ietf stamp of approval on experimental documents i don't have a fundamental issue with that happening in this proposed working group but i'm not sure there would be a lot of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "demand for that jonathan a very quick point just to um it was uh it was questioned a little earlier about why new reno is a proposed standard specifically and the reason is that it provides the minimum required functionality to avoid congestion can collapse in the internet so there is a standard for doing that if you do that minimum or something compatible with that minimum then the internet is safe it's as simple as that thank you sorry this little presentation thing just crashed but uh all right um i would just like to briefly uh run through a couple more slides before we open up for more discussion uh because we're starting to um bleed into um what this group would exactly do um and i'm not gonna read the whole charter to you nor are we going to come to consensus on the exact wording of a charter today but i think there are two salient things to this discussion um first of all i mean there's two basic categories here one is like the the administrative work to clean up the process and the second one is to actually approve new congestion controls at this point i don't actually know what new congestion controls in the course of the next year or two will feel they're ready to be standardized rather than you know experimented with so we'll talk about that in a minute but this slide here just shows the the administrative work that has to happen first the one is rfc 5033 bis this is a 15 year old document that's that explains the process on how to go standards track and it is written for a world like in my opinion is i wasn't there it was explained to me it was written for a world where crash controls came out of academia and really the ietf was an effective gatekeeper to wider deployment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "and that it at least thought it was uh although cubic might be a a counter example um and that is not the world anymore so reviewing it in that light and seeing um is like like what is the trade-off between huge performance gains the internet and some damage to existing new renal users like is is the correct bar the right one um clearly the bar is not you can just stomp on everybody um but you know there's there's a lot there's a continuum there that that i would like the community to to work out the second item is to develop a framework and i don't know what this looks like to accommodate all the all the transport protocols that um [Music] that uh use these sorts of standard congestion controls um like if you have say an implementation of a new something like bbr um and you did it in tcp and it works and you didn't quick and it works but you didn't do it in sctp is it safe to standardize it for sctp i don't know but maybe the community has an answer to that um and then i wrote this here like tcpm of course is going to publish cubic i don't know if that needs to be um if there needs to be some sort of side part of that to adapt to the other protocols but that would be a nice test case for that kind of work um and then the other part was just i wanted to again this is a very this is a straw man charter uh this is pretty far from becoming a group right now but um i do have some language in here about if if protocol if algorithms do come forward that are ready and one that is probably ready frankly is dctcp right now which is an informational rfc in case you didn't realize that um but anyway the so the idea that this is open to taking those standardization efforts if they if they arise we won't keep the group open forever when the administrative work is done just in case a an algorithm shows up but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "um what's probably most interesting here is the scope of this i think i've already seen some pushback on loss recovery which is fine and that's noted and i'm inclined to take that advice but also it's the question of domain um i wrote this pretty broadly to not be only be um you know like open internet download you know traditional file download stuff but also you know media congestion control um multi-path stuff uh special use cases like like data centers internet of things etc and um you know i i think that opens the scope a little more and will probably increase the connection controls ready for standardization don't necessarily grow on trees i think opening the scope a little bit creates the right body of expertise and also increases the probability will have a steady stream fork but um that's really all i had to present i'd like to open the queue up again for people who want to comment on any of this yeah just repeating i think what i just said in before maybe you know that that first bullet point standardization there i think might not only include experimental right i mean depending on how careful you want to be the most careful thing is is a separate sense about new experimental work maybe added to the charter you know upon you know interest by the community and agreement by the id right so that's the most defensive position the more you put experimental into the charter the easier it is to have these what did i say hundreds of phd you know okay thank you torellis ian yeah again please state your name and affiliation at the mic ian sweat google um yeah with the the charter with the loss recovery removed i would support much more strongly i do think this work is worth doing it's kind of unfortunate that um cubic is about to be standardized yet again in tcbm and there's no applicable quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "specification and similarly uh bbr is you know also not uh kind of a standard track item and not uh written as designed for real quick um but i think uh the ex recent resumption information about like cross connection resumption and such as mentioned in the quick working group could potentially belong in here so i'm generally supportive of it being created and this charter looks like it's going in the right direction anyone else tourists what i asked right so in terms of maybe the concern officers if you know if you ask these working group chairs of the existing groups how they think it overlaps with any of the work items that are in their group and come to conclusion what that should mean for for for that work right yeah it's not directly the charter but maybe they want the charter to be you know refined so sure that it works best for them i mean cubic is so close we'd clearly leave that in he's pm but if there's other work that i might not be aware of that's that's out there we can just discuss that jonna um hello um i i know i'm being very carmagenly today but perhaps that's my role today um the i don't understand the question of the charter because i still i'm still stuck on the premise of the working group and [Music] are we am i am i to comment on the charter based on and based on acceptance of the of the questions that we asked upfront um i guess i'll say this right like there's there's there's a lot to be unpacked here in my opinion and and the problem here is that i've put my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "comments on the chat so they'll be available for later as well but i'm happy to engage on this there's there's i think there's misalignment between where the iedf is and where uh people working on these things are yes you'll you'll get a you will definitely get some work there's never a working group with the idea that has no work right the question ultimately is how much impact you actually want to have and i'll say that if you want to have a certain amount of impact let's look at the condition control and loss recovery landscape and ask what are the big things that we need that we've missed over the past five years for not having this venue and will this when you actually create a space where those things will get addressed and i don't see that so if you create a venue that's open-ended enough that we'll have work coming in absolutely you'll have that but my fear is it'll become busy work it'll become committee work and it risks become irrelevant and um that is my concern once we open up something like this it's hard to close it so i want to know exactly what are we targeting here in more precise terms than than general ones because i understand opening up 50 33 for example is is seems like a concrete thing but honestly that could be a five-year effort in of itself because that's a pretty pretty broad research requesting uh to ask what is a safe condition controller to be deployed we've tried to address this in many ways in iccrg in in in various forums and we've not gotten very far so to be able to address those questions i don't think it's a concrete ask it's a concrete also say let's revise let's publish a new version of it but that conversation is going to get out of hand very quickly so i guess what i'm saying is what are the top level items that we want to get addressed given this is the engineering forum this is the itf not the irt so um on one to answer your question on on one level um you know this is administrative work right to clean up processes to so on and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "so on um i would say that there are a few a few things out there that are that are emerging out like bbr like tcp prague that are probably close to being if not already well certainly in the real world are experimental uh could be experimental rcs at some point and after that years of pro you know years of effort to clean up this process we would be in a place where we could actually realistically try to standardize them if if we felt they were ready and if they you know have successful experiments um i don't think that if they were ready to standardize today we would be in a good position to do it based on our recent experience trying to standardize congestion controls um right so uh twereless yeah just just quickly jenna um can can you reformulate what you said as changes to the proposed charter because it's not quite clear what you would like to have added or removed to get to the point that you like to have maybe we can take that to the list but you know i think maybe that that would help better to to make progress here okay jonah go ahead and respond um tell us i think my i'm questioning the premise of the working group itself right so to ask me to revise the charter so that i would delete the charter basically it's what i'm suggesting but that's not that's not constructive um but i am asking the question about exactly what the chapter is supposed to be writing it down in words is fine we can do that but um to your point uh uh martin of of uh documenting say bbr this is concrete so let's see so if i if i saw input documents to charter a working group what i what i want to see is what are the input documents going into this i don't see any i mean this is not a buff which is also confusing a little bit because it's not it's not articulated as a buff but it's it's what i'm calling ba fish uh it's it's not clearly in a bar so it's not a barber but but if is bbr one of the documents we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "are talking about is a new loss recovery mechanism that is shared between quick and tcp one of the documents is compound tcp one of the documents like what are the documents that are going in that you're going to say okay well these are documents that will form the core of our initial bunch of work right so connect just quickly sorry yes um so the um if this is for example exactly to that point like are the individual solutions that have been built like bbr and others at the correct stage then i think what this working group may start to do is similar to what we did in multicast you know decades ago when reliable multicast you know with congestion with all that stuff you know the thousands of solutions from researchers were brought to the ietf we exploded and ultimately we said let's define the building blocks and let's uh assess them and i think the first slide had basically those those principles right so one of the things we can achieve is then if enough people think that bbr and the others aren't ready or so then let's force the bbr and other people to work towards the criteria that we do through this working group and through that intermediate step we will then develop whether or how we can adopt bbr and others as experimental or standards right so take it a step further down look into the you know the congestion control stuff and then go back and look at the full protocol specifications for them so i would just to answer your question john um in terms of things ready to be standardized now i think they are things that are um that we're well aware of and have the wrong status like cubic like cubic for non-tcp protocols like dc-tcp i think those are pretty well established very stable well understood ready for standard this other stuff is not ready to be standardized in my opinion it is ready to be experimented on i would like to see experimental rfcs for all of those relatively soon if it were up to me which it's not um but my hope is that if we get all this work done that we would be ready when they are ready to be standardized in a few years time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "but like the charter does not name those protocols because there's algorithms i really don't know what's going to emerge out of the process over the next few years gory i i'm asked about the charter i'm not so happy with that this bullet here and to me each of these seems to spawn off its own problem set that we want to look at like how to do multipath properly and what you might use for judging and what iot transport really looks like and how it aggregates i'm worried that that widens the scope i think people are going to be successful in producing better guidance again cubic crew and prague or whatever that turns out to be um we shouldn't be looking at all everything all at the same time so to me they look like research problems recent problems we'd love to solve but not ones we need to standardize right now bob you're in the queue hi there um bob briscoe independent um uh in terms of the um janna's question as to what drafts would come into this i think i was trying to wait before bringing this up because i've said this on the mailing list about adding aqms to this and so um i think there's just very briefly to catch people up on that um you know one of the problems we're trying to solve here is sort of congestion in the tsvwg working group as well and um aqm needs the same expertise as congestion control largely defining the the problem means thinking about the two at the same time and so i think it'd be useful if they were both in the same working group and so in answer to janna's problem i would see things like f q coddle pi or an extension to pi like the pi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "squared or something like that the dual pi squared eventually coming in as as possible candidates for standards track you know thank you bob so i'll use that segway to say that there is that this charter is on github and i would strongly encourage you to file issues if there are specific concrete changes you would like to make and i've i've cut you some stuff that's on that was already on the list um i'm not sure all these are necessarily good ideas but a lot of them are um uh so please take a look at that i would actually like to take a moment to um as we're running out of time here to have like a show of hands of people that okay first of all i don't i haven't heard yeah we could use the tool but but let me preface that by saying that i i hear some some concern some totally legitimate concern from janna if this is like going to be a productive exercise to set up this working group and aside from that fairly strong support for doing so um so i'm going to ask you people to use the show of hands tool to um to ask like without committing i'm not asking i'm not gonna take names or like take this as a promise but given those documents that we discussed let me see if i can find them there we go 50 33 bits like this framework thing maybe one or two other um uh existing informational documents that should become standards like who would be inclined yeah can i do it from here yeah you can do it from there or this thing nope you can't do with that thing thank you would you be inclined to help right any i can't type to co-author"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "any of these drafts oh european keyboard one minute the question marks i'm looking for there we go okay start it and while the votes are while the votes are coming in um i i would say that it's like zaheda are gonna take a look at the results of this discussion um and also peruse the the chat which we've not had a chance to do uh at this point um and uh i'm seeing about 13 yeah it's not done yet but like a fair a fairly large number certainly if if they all said yes which they won't ultimately um that would certainly be more than enough people to write these products yes sir i mean you asked the most important question first i hope you're not stopping there right because i mean i think they're they're people that really just like to see the work uh happening even if they don't feel competent to contribute as for well i mean i mean i i do think there's a um okay yeah yeah so so tourists frankly i've detected pretty strong support with not not by any means unanimous support but pretty strong support for this and if anyone thinks this is a bad idea besides janna or is concerned it's a bad idea besides john has not said so please please feel free to do so are they here on the list um so like i think i think uh based on this i'm feel pretty positive about it um so i would invite you to continue to discuss this on tsv area list i would invite you to to file topics on github and um and discuss the points in in the github and we can start to evolve this document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "um and if if you are interested if you decide after this on the spot question if you um decide that you actually really would like to work on these products please contact me we can maybe organize you and if we have a couple drafts zero zero giraffes are ready to go then we can really think about getting this started i don't know if we're going to do a boss at 115 or just do it it depends on how the speed goes and if we think their questions still be resolved but if i mean if if if we have authors lined up and chairs lined up and people seem to more electric consensus on the charter then we probably won't if not we probably will um if like all the interest dies away we won't we won't do either uh but okay do you do something you wanted to add yeah so i think the important part here is like this this this community need to decide like what they want to do with it and they have to come up with this working because we are now we're we're guiding this this work guiding the idea of this uh creating this working group but it we all have to work on it so it's important that you you try to contribute and try to convince also uh to the community like what do you want to achieve here so that's the important part the second question we wanted to ask if this community is willing to contribute yeah right exactly right okay so thank you very much um if anyone we have a couple minutes does anyone have any last comments for the good of the area last call for comments jonna hey thanks i i i want to i want to share something more constructive here right basically i've said this for a while and i want to repeat that here i think that condition control is an active and dynamic uh space and i think we ought to engage in that space we ought to create a forum for it i just don't think that using the same standard templates that we've always used is the right way to go about it i think that we need to create a space where people can engage where people can bring their work that they're doing and maybe the format is different and i want to have a broader discussion about this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "rather than an administrative one about whether we should do a working group to open up 5033 or not because i really think that that's not the most valuable and impactful thing that we can do in terms of valuable impactful things that we can do i think we can create a community i think we can create a community of people who are not at the idf who are in the industry working on conservation controllers but we bring them in and i'm happy to discuss and i'm happy to bring some on what those things can produce if all it is is a video if all of it is a presentation that's still super valuable if all it means is that we are all sitting around in the room and having a dinner and talking about things that's still super valuable so i think there are constructive things that we can and should do i try to do some of these things while we are meeting in person uh through iccrg but i'm very happy to engage on on those conversations i think that that is where i want to put my effort lovely john of course as chair of iccrg you're in pretty good shape to help but that community and uh i encourage you to do so i have no objection to that if you have other concrete proposals in that area um feel free to email me or take it to the tsv area list i'm sure that's that's certainly germaine to what we're talking about here um no one else is in the queue and i have 2 30. so thank you very much for joining us have a wonderful week here in philadelphia yeah yeah that's right i thought that was the point so if you missed that one you can you cannot still put in the java i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:14",
    "text": "okay i guess i can still just talk to the room from here you"
  }
]
