[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "let\u0027s get started can someone at the back close the door please hey man check any close the door please thank you welcome to t\u0027s again this is the second of the two sessions that we are having this week in the Land of Smiles the blue sheets are out please do sign them there are a set of links here that you would want to check out if we would be using ether pad as usual for collective note-taking we you don\u0027t necessarily need to capture everything that\u0027s presented here just capture the gist of the conversation that happens here note well if you\u0027re not familiar with it get yourself familiarized there\u0027s a links link at the bottom that should give you the full details if everything that you say here or on the mailing list is on the public record in terms of logistics this session is being streamed both video and audio for the sake of folks for the benefit of folks who are participating remotely please do speak only using the microphones please state your name before speaking we did talk about ether pad we are also on jabber so please feel free to join us there folks who are participating remotely please do join the me taker queue if you have something to say nothing has changed in terms of personnel since yesterday I\u0027m Pavan biram blue bucket to my right and our secretary is still Matt Hartley so that said let\u0027s just jump right into the session we will pick up from where we left off in yesterday\u0027s session if Sergio if you\u0027re here can you walk up to the Sergio aurita low let\u0027s go to the next presentation a city in yang okay hello this is a harem Harley I\u0027m presenting the update to the applicability of the old young model for a city in where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:49",
    "text": "okay thank you so this is the second update after the working group adoption wait people just take a seat so the motivation of this craft is to fit the existing models has been designed in different working groups into the existing HDR capture which has recently be published as RFC and after the previous meeting the main change of this draft is something editorial by clarifying the obstruction and performance monitoring description and the fixed previous issues on this kind of topics and we also provide some description on how the multi-window can do the inter up in the a setting architecture and for the specific models and corresponding interface we link more related graphs saying layer number one two-story service model into the exiting architecture and we also add some description about the southbound interface so you earlier this was not in the scope out facing team but we only provide some information for description and this is useful between the PNC and device next Chris so here is the CMI interface model usage after the updating and the change is highlighted here we basically adding the layer one two three service model into the CMI and this should be co-located with hazard models including the we ends the service mapping topology obstructions everything and we we have actually as a other document describing how to connect between these models next and then we also update the MPI modeling usage is a mainly changes to as microwave into the how architecture and though we as a microwave body model abstraction as technology technology specific options and it would be coexist with other technologies specific models including ot and W so that\u0027s great everything next so this document the summaries summarize how the a city in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:50",
    "text": "interface can use what kind of ITF young models and the related models referenced in this draft is basically becoming stable and another good news is a sitting framework has been published as RFC but I believe there is always new coming young models and should be fit into the whole architecture so we are looking we will look into this in the future but currently on the perspective of the author so we believe this document is ready for the working group last call that\u0027s all thank so this reference is a bunch of models right sorry this references a fair number of models that are yes progressing through various stages yeah so I I don\u0027t personally I don\u0027t see any good reason to hurry with the progress of this I mean yeah right but yeah but we need to have a common understanding on how to finalize this work yes because the model never has at least the basic models that you are referencing I would like to see them first this is my personal view I would like to see them progress to a sufficiently mature stage before we can take it forward yeah but yeah I agree with you but we need to just clarify what is a basic model and how mature it is exactly Daniela I totally agree with your question the point is that here we are referencing a huge number of documents so probably is a good idea to define a subset which we are going to wait for and then progress I agree with you that at least at the basic 1t topology t tunnel path computation I would say could be my proposal as the showstopper for the drafter but then we can okay we cannot wait forever but I get with you probably these free it\u0027s my proposal one way to one way to think about it is when this gets published as an RFC which references do you want to be that are listed as drafts and which ones do want to be listed as RFC since it\u0027s informational and they\u0027re informational references which is completely appropriate the document once we submit it it will be published basically as fast as it as soon as it\u0027s ready to be published which means that all your references that our drafts are gonna be published as drafts and I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s really the outcome that makes the most sense we might want to have some RFC\u0027s there yes those three I would like personally I would like to see those three reference that as RFC\u0027s and the rest can be drafts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:56",
    "text": "so we\u0027ll continue with our agenda and try to have a little time left over to come back to the tardy Sergio and Italo [Music] yeah it\u0027s working hi everyone this is truth I\u0027ll be talking about a CT and en yang which is one of the yang models from the previous discussion so this is just a since we are starting with the session just to show you where all the a CT and yang models and other te young models kind of fit in and some of which are going to be discussed next so what you see a service model on top this is the augmentation of all the service model this was earlier tea service mapping which i think is the next presentation as well so now we are orienting the service model with the underlying te information now this underlying T information could be a a CT and VN yang model or T topology model or a tee tunnel model so these are the three different levels of mapping that we have so this is just gives you a weight is the all these model kind of fits in what is in a CT in Vienna myung V and yang model just as a high level this is the yang model that that models the VNS operations which are defined in the framework and the info model it is from the point of view of customer it\u0027s on si mi after all and the abstraction it\u0027s basically an abstraction a higher level abstraction on the tito book and the tee tunnel model and of course we depend on those models and I will show you what\u0027s the relationship so they there is some similarity but they are quite different as well so this will give you a very high level what is the relationship we have an AC T and V n model which references the T topology model as a single node so that\u0027s what you see as the second level the single node in a tea topology model and then we use the connectivity matrice information that exists in unknown to further have underlay topology at multiple recursions so you could have an abstract topology the third level which is VN which could is which is also very useful for VN type two and then at the end you have the native tea topology which is also on the same model so you can see how there is this recursive nature in the yang model but while the tea topology model is from the point of view of a network it is describing how the network runs the AC T in VN is from the point of view of customer this is something that we went "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:56",
    "text": "over last time as well but just to refresh what do we mean when when we say that a CT n VN points to a single node this is basically what it looks like so in a single node in the T topology model you have connectivity matrices which is the generic property belonging to all the elements in the matrix and then you could have very specific properties assigned to each of the connectivity matrix entry as well so that\u0027s what the VN member pointing to the ID what you see right here and the generate thing up top I think kind of same thing in a different way of single node and mapping to just a reference to that node and then each VN member has an ID in the connectivity matrix where you can use the underlay information in the connectivity matrix to further no other information including tunnel topology paths etc example from the customer point of view we would simply have I have this VN it has four VN members those are the points that needs interconnection and when you set them up these are the properties for these so these basically maps to with a reference in the T topology model one node all the attributes go to the connectivity matrices this setting so we have this relationship but from customer point of view he can think of it as a VN which maps to a tea topology model this is VN type two with the difference that you have a single node topology on top but also have a VN topology which is an abstract topology that you show to the customer and customer can also set parts based on these two T to power based on this VN type two topology and it is all modeled in the same fashion as before so you have a CT n simply V n VN member it points to a single abstract node the single abstract node use the underlay path to refer to the VN type to and which can further recursively point to the actual native T topology and just the what was the main idea behind it when we wrote the actn info model these were the set of actions that we standardized in RFC 845 for that you have be an instantiation V and modify V and delete so our main aim with this yang model was how to clearly map these are these primitives that were define in the info model into a clear yank but at the same time there could be various operations that you can do you could create a V and explicitly that\u0027s where the VNS comes into picture when you are explicitly creating a VN or the VN could be automatically created what is the case for that the tea service mapping that when you customer only creates the service and the VN mapping to this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:57",
    "text": "automatically created so there is no config happening here but it\u0027s automatically created like an auto tunnel just to equate it to how that works it exists in the state but that state information is very useful so you can map to how this service is using what in your network right and then we in the document you will see there are some advanced use cases as well where the actn VN helps such as multi-source multi resonation and VN compute use cases status we got adopted couple of five years ago main comments was the relationship between the other models were not clear so we have tried to update and clarify how that\u0027s been done updated the other consideration section so that\u0027s where we stand right now and that\u0027s my presentation Adrian Farrell thank you drove I\u0027ve been trying to do my technical adviser thing and get between the authors and the chairs on is the this VN model does it have a purpose or should we simply use the T model and I found your slides quite good at explaining what\u0027s different and how the VN model is like a wrapper on the T model so I have a question for the chairs do the chairs see that a bit more clearly now or does there\u0027s more work need to be done to explain it I think the question is for the working group of whether the working group sees value in this in this work in the work and the again and in the model that\u0027s a very valid question but it isn\u0027t my question that\u0027s fine but that\u0027s the question I\u0027d like to ask fellow fine fine so take you take your place in the line behind me my question that I\u0027m asked in is do you because you were the people who raised this issue and and give us a second to go through a little bit of the process let\u0027s talk about the room and we\u0027ll talk we\u0027ll continue to talk but give us a moment so I\u0027m asking you to wait a moment to respond so how many people have read this document how many people think that this is good work now that\u0027s not a surprise because this is a working group document right so that\u0027s great so I continue with the work is a good thing so I think we\u0027ve answered your question is is this going well I didn\u0027t ask that question does anyone object to the direction this document is taking so I think that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:57",
    "text": "answers your question well thank you thank you for for assuming what answers my question Lou but might be I have some respect for the chairs although it may not be apparent at the moment and and the chairs were expressing that they as chairs or as individuals reading the document had some lack of clarity about the where it fitted in so I\u0027m asking whether that whether we\u0027ve managed to clear that that lack of clarity or whether more work is needed okay so I heard you saying is you\u0027re asking the chairs that the chairs think there\u0027s value in this model no and no that\u0027s a question I don\u0027t think it\u0027s for us that\u0027s not my question so if you want to ask what the what issues we have with that I\u0027m happy to answer that right as well and why don\u0027t we do that right yes sir there was a specific issue that was raised and and yeah it was a it was a good question which was what what is the difference between this and simply using the team offer and and I thought dhruv did quite a good job of explaining what that was and I\u0027m asking did that explanation make it help make it clear to you or do we need to do more work to explain that again I think that fundamentally is the question of whether we need this model versus just using the TE topology model if that other model was sufficient and I think the room has answered that question I\u0027m glad that the working group think that\u0027s that\u0027s good and that\u0027s fine but you know you you you guys have got technical ability and I want to know have we addressed it in your minds not not has is the working group happy but you know so if you I do have a technical question it\u0027s not the one you\u0027re asking and if you let me I would answer ask it now if you want to ask the question ain\u0027t it want me to answer the question that you\u0027re asking is do we have sufficient justification to have a separate model from Te topology I think we\u0027ve covered that well I guess that\u0027s good that\u0027s good I mean if he wants if no I won\u0027t say I\u0027m really tempted to say the thing I said to my children which is if you I\u0027ve given the answer of yes let\u0027s continue if you want to keep arguing I guess we could change the answer to no [Laughter] to it to be totally clear I\u0027m not implementing this and in a sense I don\u0027t refer or what\u0027s it but I actually wanted to understand whether we\u0027ve done the job of that you asked us to do I think you have done it because the room believes there\u0027s value in this I think the doctrine has gone a long way and thanks for the work and making things clear thank you that question I do have in going through this explanation which I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:58",
    "text": "do appreciate I think is a good one is the the model that\u0027s defined and the notion of VN is that something that is intrinsic to an AC TN implementation or just does it apply to any type of VN implementation for example I go through this isn\u0027t a comment on the description I think the description is pretty clear but if you go through the actual model it seems that there\u0027s nothing actn specific it\u0027s all about virtual node control and there the the description of a virtual mode and mapping that down the topology all good stuff isn\u0027t that a generic thing let\u0027s say someone has a PC controller which can control a Paula G but it doesn\u0027t conform with the actn model does it need a different model or can it use this one but I think you can but my confusion is like I think this happened during a chartered discussion as well maybe we kind of think of this in a little different way in my mind when we do talk about AC T and V n BN is a generic thing in such as a virtual network but we define V n in the context of what a CTN can do so in this model of course it is but if he adds something for example if we say that this needs to be used for network slicing yes you use this as a base ad Augmented and do something else but this is the base could be a base for it but that shouldn\u0027t mean that we should not call it AC T n that\u0027s the part which I\u0027m not really sure about what\u0027s wrong with the word a CDN it\u0027s that the next person that comes along and wants the support virtual know represent a VN he had to do it with this model because they\u0027re not implementing actn and I don\u0027t think we want to stop them so if this is in fact a flick generally applicable the only change we have to do is to the model I\u0027m not talking about to the document go to the model remove the turn actn and then the next one come along and say yeah just use this not evolution actually only by the way the only critique or question I have it\u0027s just the namespace idea of slash a city noise and actn is a collection of building blocks none of them individually is se tiene if you put them together you have a CDN so you can implement all of them individually and where I\u0027m headed is or maybe us suing Pavan doesn\u0027t jump in and tell me he disagrees is that we\u0027d like this work to be generally useful and applicable wherever we have or modeling bien information so I I agree what a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:00",
    "text": "loose saying so basically when we talk about the city and and the models are a city and user it\u0027s pretty much everything that we are doing in this group right so so and those building blocks it\u0027s just like a just players okay they could be put in one way or another or could be used individually so for example if you use IT topology model say in how we were saying that you are using the CTN but it doesn\u0027t necessarily mean that the solution needs to be anything to do with the city and it could be like any other like a framework that just happens to use the polity model okay thank you hello everyone my name is Jung Lee on behalf of our course I present I\u0027m glad that I don\u0027t it doesn\u0027t have a city in here trafficking young model maybe there\u0027s a bit more prophetic oh yes yes the issues discussed since couple ITF so go you know we proposed originally tea service mapping as a single independent young model and I think the argument was why not augmenting existing service model layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 service model and then share the same grouping by creating some you know grouping model so there\u0027s some discussion and I think I personally was convinced with cherry suggestion to simplify and operationally I think augmentation up is simple because it\u0027s just one model and so we change you know young structure without changing the capability instead of having one single mapping model that connects service and traffic engineering we created tea service mapping type as an independent grouping model and then each of layer access and model basically import that and to argument so so picture basically shows we have layers layer access and model and this model basically argument the layer access M model to inherit all the properties and then whatever grouping studies needed for you know you know mapping tights we based basically create one common tea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "service mapping types young and input being imported to this augmented layer accent model and then this model have all the references on here and theater policy and theater know so in doing so we reorganize a little bit of VN and T\u0027s tunnel selection policy one of the main changes is we put isolation requirement which is not expressed in original service model in the context of network slicing like hard isolation with deterministic characteristic for certain PPN instance this service may require a very hard isolation and the deterministic latency means that there\u0027s no little overview of variation of the latency and hard isolation and soft isolation I think this one is kind of synergistic with what dongji we\u0027re going to present a VPN plus framework and then we added another type which is like availability certain DP an instance are require higher availability then the others so we specify that as a one of the map type yeah so this look like or layer I believe yes so this is a layer 3 SN T cells in epping which is augmented augmented model of layer 3 SN and likewise this is layer 2 and this is layer 1 so the structures are almost identical and layer 1 CS and has a little bit different structure so it looked different a little bit but basically it shares the same grouping that we defined as a separate young model so I think next step I think also believe that this draft is a good base for any working group adoption comments questions so at the last two ITF we rehash the same discussion and I remember that we had that I don\u0027t remember the details of it but can you tell us what the resolution was of those discussions yeah resolution was actually you proposed that why why not augmenting you just to model there was another discussion that Igor was bringing up about about the service mapping no this is different I don\u0027t know what do you remember all the notes and comments on it we can bring that up during the adoption calls also sure on that with that in mind oh by the way it\u0027d be great to have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:02",
    "text": "non ACP an example the doc yes how many think that this is a topic we should be working on so again this is that seems like a reasonable number how many have read the document I\u0027ll note that it\u0027s a it\u0027s actually more than think we should even be working on the topic that\u0027s sort of interesting usually it\u0027s the other way around how many think that this is a something that we should adopt as the foundation is the starting point for work on the topic in the working group remember and just keep in mind when we it doesn\u0027t say that the solution is locked it says that this is where we\u0027re going to start and you can change so who thinks that it\u0027s a good starting point I think that\u0027s a very reasonable moment so we\u0027ll take it in list okay thanks let me read the title young mothers for tea performance monitoring telemetry metal autonomics okay yeah basically this model support performance monitoring telemetry as a report of 48 owners and a CTO NBN\u0027s okay so we have two modules 8ft KPI telemetry and ITF ICT nte KPI telemetry and if you want Lou I can replace AC 10 at the end just to be clear I\u0027m talking about and actually we both agree on this is that if we\u0027re defining a solution we shouldn\u0027t constrain ourselves just to actn based solutions so if someone wants to build a controller base model that they say is not conformant with a CTN but they still want to implement this model they\u0027re free to do so and that\u0027s that\u0027s really what we\u0027re all about it\u0027s not that we\u0027re anti actn you know we\u0027re all about the the controller based approach that\u0027s AC yeah so we\u0027re we\u0027re not trying to diminish the name what we\u0027re trying to do is actually enhance the work and enhance the applicability of the work okay I take it very positively okay yeah and then not only our telemetry performance monitoring data is associated with the eternal of the end but we also have autonomics for scaling in scaling out intent being able to subscribe by the customer and depending on what primary choose it can be end operation or all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "operation or you can actually bingo multiple performance monitoring parameters together to define scaling in scaling out operation as a subscription-based so we have as I said we have to model one insert eternal and the other one is a c10 VN we argument respectively so stereo says I think the only issue was when I present the last time there\u0027s a question about stamp stamp work I think Greg some of the data may be similar to stamp data so why don\u0027t you use stem data so data stir history and then in the revision of tea.i tivity types which was just separated out from the tunnel model I think or Turek and other quarters work hard to define at this model and in doing so we actually reshape a performance metric container grouping to have a one-way and two-way performance related data for delay and and packet loss and so on and let variation and so on so basically a dis model input that I TFT types and then we don\u0027t reinvent any parameters used for this model we just import so that is the resolution and why this is different from stamp stamp first of all doesn\u0027t have anything about bandwidth but we need Bendis so which is actually imported from IETF routing types again and stamp is more measurement but this is more reported as a concatenated information not just link data because we have to give customer tunnel view or VN view so that\u0027s the resolution so as I said here we use a T types for the group being defined in arty types specify performance data on te KPI telemetry and also I see TNT KPI telemetry we use the same thing so these are the gist of the model I\u0027m not going to go in detail but we can take a look at online so next step again we believe that this Draft has a good base for working group adoption this time DT Bella Nokia I noted that there are a few performance attributes like delay delay variation and packet loss which are technology specific so I thought that teaser should define yeah malts which are technology independent or neutral "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:06",
    "text": "delay is a delay is technology specific a delay variation in circuit switch networks okay there is no delay variation okay this one in the context of and there\u0027s also no idea optical you know our assumption is always IP is a server layer and optical is a IP is a client layer and optical is a server layer so we are talking about in the multi-layer multi domain context you always hit router elements it\u0027s not your secure end-to-end transport that\u0027s not our scope here our scope here is multi domain multi-layer networks there\u0027s always a packet optical interaction and that caused some delay and delay variation so it\u0027s not necessarily technology specific but that\u0027s the reality of the network context that we are modeling yeah but shouldn\u0027t those attributes not be defined as augmentations for these specific layer networks about packet loss I I agree with you but not delay delivery I was talking about lay variation which is zero for circuit switch networks what is ICT and is that transfer only what is it contacts is I thought you said this was generally applicable anywhere how to use easy I mean without packet router and audience optical switch what what what what what else we are talking about I mean that is the contact fine it may be yours but we have different people here who\u0027d like to use the same technology building blocks for different technology and our approach he\u0027s correct has been to do a core model and then technology specific augmentations it\u0027s not a big technical change and in fact from an implementation standpoint it\u0027s no change but it for you but for him it means that he doesn\u0027t have to mark that he\u0027s doing deviations so it seems like it\u0027s a compatible approach and one that follows what we\u0027ve done in the past I think it\u0027s a reasonable thing to consider and if we were gonna do an adoption call that would be something you would want to see address that\u0027s okay then I think we have a trouble with T types this is maybe I can find a few types okay or something because I happen to have attended the ITU meeting I think a few weeks ago there was a very nice presentation about delay variation caused by asymmetry I synchronous mapping in OTN oh I said thank you so maybe that settles the issue yes there is delay the occasion another issues that we we just import that T types that\u0027s a te types not generic types so it\u0027s not my problem I just inherited so I think we have to change the T types do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:07",
    "text": "you know go back to that trace probably not right so if the issue is I want to deploy it is on something that has nothing to deal with packet switching and so I don\u0027t want to implement packet loss I think we could separate the module but I wouldn\u0027t go for another draft with one just one one thing so if this is the requirement I think we can do it as an augmentation but I mean we risk a to have tens of documents and then I said keeping everything together is a risk also because this would be a document to belong into another working group probably so if we did the packet we did a lot of yang with packet it okay even if he\u0027s these please let\u0027s avoid having a document adjust for one value Tariq as a co-author of the tea types so we had a discussion on the performance parameters that we imported into the tea types yeah I mean what we wanted to make sure that they are technology independent I think you were engaged in that for years well and I agree with the comment that the technology specific parameters can be augmented for OTN know for a honda optical but we what we wanted to make sure is that the types only covers the generic ones so we don\u0027t have anything technology specific we his point is packet loss is technology specific so and that it is in te types I see okay and you know we do have as we talked about before we have the yang doctor comments that we\u0027re addressing so the rest probably something that\u0027s worth looking at yep yep so we can talk about that shortly right okay okay yeah I don\u0027t know if any comment on the performance metrics but for expressing the scaling intent mm-hm do you have any references or I would like some discussion on how the scaling intent is expression right now yeah fairly arbitrary no yeah I think you know depending on the parameter so you have VN okay you have a location one and you have a two destination location you know load balance maybe utilization so I think scaling intent basically you can define you know your when a certain utilization exceed or below you see customer be able to program please set when those things happen I\u0027d like to see you know load "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:07",
    "text": "balance you know in different way well you know things like that so it depends on performs many monitoring parameter or yeah I understand why you have it uh-huh just the way it\u0027s Express I I would like to see some options discussed on the list yeah absolutely yep okay how many people have read this document a decent number of how many people think this is this is this is sufficiently baked for it to get adopted with the caveat that the comments that were raised today get addressed little less than the previous number so I was unclear and actually the question you are asking do we address and then go for adoption that\u0027s the caveat yeah yeah so given if if and when those comments get addressed do you guys think that this is this is enough this so this will be sufficiently baked by that time to get adopted I\u0027m not sure it did it\u0027s the it\u0027s little bit a bad number I think please do an update based on comments that we received so what is thumb because I depend on tier types unless to resolve it I cannot do anything about it so T types is gonna be resolved to be generic as well as I mean they were you saw on the on the list there\u0027s some other changes that the anchors okay were so there\u0027s gonna be some change so maybe I\u0027ll going to be taken out most likely right so Tariq again so the the the the grouping that we define it he types it\u0027s actually applicable to multiple packet technologies and PLA this is what it always tena me in Ethernet they wanted to use the same grouping so it is kind of genetic but not applicable to optical maybe so we can take out these groupings because they\u0027re prepackaged specific I don\u0027t mind and put it there or I would expect you would still have the type who just would be out of out of the base grouping you might correct so they\u0027re expected to show up but with some restructuring yeah we can create another grouping with our packet don\u0027t give it and call something else okay sounds good right then I think we are quite sure okay okay alright but it\u0027s it\u0027s a useful packet losses an important yeah yeah so I would it doesn\u0027t have to leave the document but it would be taken out of that grouping jug there right okay yeah that\u0027s what I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:07",
    "text": "meant but the TU types mm-hmm the T types change wasn\u0027t the only caveat making it a city and agnostic was the other piece yep V and instead of a city and replace with via fair okay think we\u0027ll swap the next two presentations we\u0027ll have the announced VPN first and then we will do or Dan Kings presentation this is Jayden from Maui and I\u0027m going to present update on the framework for the enhanced VPN okay first a little bit a recap of the purpose and scope of disrupt basically is draft describe the enhancements needed to the VPNs to supporting requirements of emerging new services particularly in the 5g scenarios such as to provide a network slicing it includes enhancements in the data plane so as we could provide different levels of isolation from the soft isolation to the hard isolation and he could also provide a determinism a packet loss on delay and in the control plane posted under a and overly control protocols need to be considered so as to enable the integration of the physical network the virtual networks and the services the management plane will consider the dynamic creation modification and deletion now to enhance the between services and also the other components like OM protection is also considered in this current draft ok this diagram shows the overall architecture of the enhanced VPN we can see that in the bottom in test enhance the underrated plane which it based on the mechanisms like resource reservation or the scheduling to provide the guaranteed performance then in the upper natural layer it is responsible to create the customized virtual networks which can provide an integration between overlay and the underlay network and on the top we needed a hybrid mode of the control from the controller and also the distributor control protocols to provide a dynamic flexible and select scalable control plane and also the management plane then we will need a northbound here face to talk to the service or custom or the other like the in the 5g and UN sized managers to exchange the service requirement or the service status with an standard interface and tech models "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:10",
    "text": "okay this diagram shows the spectrum of the resource isolation I should think this the concept of isolation has been disgusting this draft we can see that on the left hand we have the statistic multiplexing which we already have today and on the right end we have the absolute isolation which can be provided by dedicated networks and what enhanced VPN I\u0027m still provided is something in between which is called pragmatic isolation in this case the purpose is to we provide some necessary isolation in some of the aspects well we still allow some resource sharing in other aspects so that we can achieve them more economical solution for the brilliant requirements in the emerging services so here the certain resource here can be any natural resources in the either the data plane the control plane or the management plane okay he released the candidate technologies in different layers this list is not exhaustive just some typical technologies we can use hope to first in the annual a data plane there are several candidates for example the floods go isn\u0027t that we can use as a dedicated queues to provide some isolation that underlay forwarding plane also the time-sensitive networking is another option then in the natural layer we can use several technologies to build the enhanced VPN service which is we can either use I\u0027m here te week I think it\u0027s already available today and we could also build it based on the Stegner RT either a service an arrest or as a v6 post can be used and detonator is another candidate technology in this layer and actually wasting some may be some enhancement will be needed to integrate that net with a virtual networks requirements in the control plane we you can see the posted distributed protocols and the centralized model for the distributed protocols the ISO apt is one option if we use sin morality to IGP BGP you need to be extended to support is in the centralized the model where you will need to rely on the P sub P GPRS etc then in a management plane I think we can make use of the actn now he tells her and the data models defined in under this architecture and also the service models like a layer 3 sm near to sm may "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:10",
    "text": "also be used for the service creation okay here\u0027s some history of this document actually this draft has been submitted and presented since ITF 99 it was firstly submitted to RT g WG and also presented in the nano slicing path then in the following ITF it has been updated with more information like architectural sections have been updated so that we can have a more complete view about this overall framework and ITA 101 after the presentation the chairs suggested we move this draft to T\u0027s that\u0027s why we come to this working group and then in last IDF I started firstly presented in case and we got extensive discussion and interest to move forward after last the ITF we had two new revisions to this draft based on the comments received okay this is the latest update since the last idea basically we add new references to the network slicing related works in the industry and we clarify the description of the isolation requirement in the requirements section in the candidate technologies we simplified the introduction to the same routing because because in this framework it is just one of the candidate technology and we also update a control plane subsection and add a new subsection for the management plane we also had new references to the candidate technologies in the draft and there are also some editorial changes to improve the readability of this draft okay so for the next steps I think this trump has been discussed widely at a number of meetings in ITF and this draft actually is a foundation of other relative drafts in the other working group like in spring and in the air SR there will be also more related protocol extensions in the other working groups after several rounds of update the content is getting stable so the authors for you maybe it is ready to initiate adoption on this document hi kitten sisqó yes so this document has been presented several times and it\u0027s an informational draft yes but it has a lot of things that as you mentioned in this presentation and it looks like it\u0027s attempting to define some sort of an architecture right right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:12",
    "text": "and that\u0027s really going into spring and NSR and all of those areas so the question is is this I mean what\u0027s the here to standardize or is it just like a white paper because the standardization or whatever changes you need I believe you have in the other drafts right just to be clear this is the t\u0027s working group traffic engineering architecture right and my question is what is what if your statement is correct that it\u0027s an architecture document this is the place to do it yeah but that\u0027s the question it\u0027s an informational draft it covers microphone please microphone please named one of the authors it is an informational draft it says informational on the front page it\u0027s intended to show how you bring together a bunch of technologies in order to create in order to solve this problem can you clarify what your what your objection is or what your question is about the draft if it\u0027s I heard a couple of different things I heard something about architecture and I heard about what\u0027s the value of an informational document so I from a process standpoint this is the right working group there\u0027s no other working group that can talk about traffic engineering architectures yeah I don\u0027t think I asked about whether it\u0027s right working group or not I that wasn\u0027t my question my question was that what are the things that we are trying to standardize here it\u0027s an informational document so by definition nothing okay so okay so but from this document we are we are generating requirements to that need standardization in other is that know the other two documents that I refer to which are in spring and LS are our standards tracked so so it could be we we often define mechanisms that can be used in different ways yeah and so this document is informing how different one of the standard mechanisms can be used in a particular way to solve a particular problem we have a lot of documents that do that absolutely normal go and look at any of the MPLS TP documents go and look at the pseudo wire document should go and look at 101 sort of documents for there trying to operate in the transparent but it is a reasonable question of what\u0027s the point and is there value so the question will be to the working group is there\u0027s a working group C value in it and if the workgroup sees value great we can move forward if enough people feel like the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:14",
    "text": "person who\u0027s asking the question that there isn\u0027t value we won\u0027t vote we won\u0027t move forward so that that\u0027s our process so I like really I like to say a couple of things one is that there is a draft that I have asked for slot in the spring but didn\u0027t get it in pass and and that draft has complete overlap with the content that are here and if you want to bring this work to tease work um I\u0027ll be happy to bring that draft here but there is another draft that addresses the same space but the solution points are different we here there are very specific notion of asking for protocol changes and and and and new sip types that are so in the context of the architecture it all of this is questionable so now I think the best way may be that if these working group wants to work on this and I bring that draft here as well and so the board draft will have fair chance but my recollection is that this draft is a superset of the draft than you\u0027ve produced because it\u0027s not restricting itself just to a spring based resolution so I think the question is that do you need a super seven then I also have problem with the with the terminology like it looks very much marketing thing which is not our idea of does solely pn+ or enhanced EPN and and all of that so I mean I have serious objection it would be fair if we have some discussion on both drafts and this draft is asking for basis which is not needed some requirements are are posted here some ways very specific ways are proposed here that are not needed and this has to be studied and any also is has to be studied by spring working group as well it\u0027s not just a decision of teeth working group it is multiple working groups that has the study this is this is the right direction if this is what you want to Hedren Farrell I I would agree with Zafar if this document was proposing any changes to a technology so if this document was saying we need a new SID to do something we need a new piece of segment routing then we should definitely be talking with spring and similarly if this was proposing doing something new with an IEP then whatever "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:16",
    "text": "I don\u0027t believe that\u0027s what this document does that my reading of it is that it\u0027s saying spring working group has produced this technology and it does what it does and we can use it in in this architecture and that seems to me like a good thing it\u0027s if you like it\u0027s saying settlement routinely it\u0027s good look how you can use it and in another section that says MP ste is good look this is how you can use it and that will just seems like good and proper I mean I have no issue with MPs the east side of thing but for segment routing there are specific sip types are defined here no not in this one I mean if you go back to your slide you have some where stars and yeah this light right when you say one that one means what can you explain yeah that will be done in the if it is some second relative relative extensions will become in the spring growth one in this one on one end to you have a specific group of those yeah no not in this one he\u0027s saying that will be done in this way no no I I understand that and and this is these are the areas where we have overlapped as well so this is this is my objection Center routing extensions where you present present a draft in spurring tomorrow morning and we would be very happy for the architecture discussion to happen here if you have something that you think is relevant to the architecture discussion please bring it that\u0027s great oh I will be another comment just a question is right place romantics Nokia I think one of the questions I have on this draft is what is the scale because if you look like spring deeply it was a stateless architecture we are going to introduce more state into the network with this technology I think it would be good to clarify in the document what type of scalability in terms of state which we are expecting when using these type of things because it probably the reason why I am asking is it might say which technologies are in scope or not in school because I think the scale is an important factor in this architectural framework to clarify I think what we aim chief with this I was actually just talking to the spring working group one of the spring working group chairs about a problem we have right now because of and I will use go back to the term that was talked about we have some marketing going on and the term srte is very confusing at the moment because you have people that have been doing TV for a long time and when you do tooi you do introduce state into the devices in order to support traffic engineer path because you\u0027re doing resource allocation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:17",
    "text": "and then there\u0027s other people who are looking at srte is purely just path steering or PE as I started to call a path engineering and that means something very different and and you have two different people that are hearing a term and thinking oh yeah I want to use that and that that solves my problem the problem is one one set wants to use it for one way and it implies certain state pieces and other want to use it another we really need a good definition and this doesn\u0027t belong here a good definition what srte or PE or whatever you want to call it is so that the two different groups can understand that they\u0027re actually talking about different things and so I think part of what we\u0027re hearing here is you have one group the ones that are here that are they\u0027re saying srte of course includes resource management in the network because that\u0027s what te means and we have another parts that says of course it doesn\u0027t because tesr is all about stateless so I think we have a larger problem that that\u0027s causing a little bit of this conflict yester point on that spring has an architecture document for SL policies or srte policy they can\u0027t have a definition anywhere of srte and that\u0027s exactly what I was asking that the working group chair for is is can we get that and so that when we have a debt when we say the words us are te know what we\u0027re talking about and we end up with one definition we don\u0027t have that right we\u0027re hoping that we will get one and the second point just to what Wynne said when and and I completely agree with what we\u0027ve said is is that when we add these states in the network for this bandwidth management there has to be some scaling and Lissa\u0027s there because if your support let\u0027s say proposing using agency said along the path that has to be properly documented in the article document what are the implications scale implication on that so from that angle is lacking so I think of srte that said it excluded the resource management that would have that if it said it included resource management we would have that so we need that definition first or we need that definition that\u0027ll help and then we\u0027ll understand that we\u0027re talking about different things with I completely agree different state implications Danijela this is the working group of owning a tea why don\u0027t we do give the definition of tea instead of srt then if spring is okay with that I will call it as a tea otherwise otherwise they will call it as a repeat I think it would be perfectly reasonable to have an informational document that says this is what we this is what do you mean my tea and I suspect that an outline of that document was actually written in order to prepare for the the presentation that was given on Sunday by the two people sitting in the front row Nestor Stewart talked about te in the in the ITF so maybe if they turn that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:17",
    "text": "document into a draft who they have exactly what you\u0027re saying they don\u0027t mean for ha me so I think that that\u0027s the marketís caution about this to the srt in fact that we proposed the draft about the sr for the net host I see yeah so I think that this is the framework uses not a user confined who the confined who is our this is our safety so I think that\u0027s the later maybe move on to more discussion for the heart heed and also that\u0027s the the same user that also maybe discussion the heart key for the network\u0027s Lyceum for William class if we used to be discussed in the Supreme working group or you know that he is the working group I think maybe their next step okay okay thank you so we have another document that\u0027s actually pretty the next that comes up next we reverse the order but it actually I\u0027m not quite sure why the author\u0027s were asking to reverse order was there a reason that the other document had something about merging said you let\u0027s go to the next presentation and then we can get back thanks guys yeah so hopefully the motivation for switching the order will become clear momentarily right so this is the ability of ACM to network slicing and yes it is hdn because it specifically talks about actn and its applicability to network slicing we can\u0027t generalize that this was a piece of work actually the original motivation for this document was to present a debuff I think it was cons when we were looking at network slicing and the potential technologies from management control plane and also potentially forwarding as well so it\u0027s really sort of something that was just very informational it was never really intended to be anything more than just a discussion document specifically for that session what\u0027s happened is we started continuing to develop the document trying to think about what do we mean in this working group for network slicing when we\u0027re looking at the kind of traffic engineering requirements what are the parameters its network connectivity its bandwidth there\u0027s also components functions that need to be interconnected in order to provide some kind of service and then we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:18",
    "text": "started looking at the DNA of the potential solution that you would use in an HTM based environment so we would have the the HTM functional components we would have so that\u0027s on the left there then we would have specific service models that you would use from say the CNC to or the customer to the CNC or the application to the CNC and then CNC to the MDS C and then the MDS C to specific technology domains for the end-to-end service that we kind of map through all the different models and then most recently the service function aware topology model was also included now at the last meeting I think youngly presented this document and the chairs will kind of ask the room well is this something that the working group would like to continue to work on and it seemed actually that there was a good indication on the room that yes this is a useful document now remembering that it is also nice to kind of generalize some of the discussion documents that we have this of course is highly specific because it talks about actn and given the previous prep presentation and the scope of that document as well as another document that I\u0027m also a co-author of which is applicability of the actn architecture to enhanced VPN or VPN plus there seems to be a lot of overlap between these three documents and over the last kind of number of weeks we\u0027ve been trying to figure out if there was a place to segment discussion across at least two of these documents but actually I think the pragmatist in me says that merging these three documents it\u0027s probably the most optimal solution and removes the necessary requirement of me to actually edit a document so that\u0027s even better yay now of course we can\u0027t decide on sort of behalf of everyone and in the room if this is the right way to go but our proposal is to take the previous document as you as you saw in the previous presentation it\u0027s really a discussion document that talks about sort of requirements for VPN and network slicing the potential management control plane and forwarding technologies that you can use a CTN is just going to be one subsection within that document and really we\u0027re not saying that ACN is the only way that you can achieve network slicing but it\u0027s certainly one of the ways that you can achieve network slicing Adrienne do you have a question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:18",
    "text": "no okay it\u0027s it\u0027s yes it\u0027s good to stand occasionally yes so that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of our current thought is to maybe take portions of of this document move it into the previous document sort of as a subsection talking about the flick ability what I was also kind of thinking about with my co-authors for this document was preparing a version of whether you know let\u0027s call it this composite document G\u0027s G\u0027s document with this now sort of potentially be a document that we would have an informal and maybe a formal liaison to some of the standards organizations that are looking at network slicing solutions so that\u0027s another question I have for the working group and a question I have for the chairs is for my process perspective would we wait for a document to be adopted by the t\u0027s working group before we actually had a formal liaison to another standards organization say look we\u0027ve got a discussion document on network slicing does it meet any of the requirements that you might have last one we don\u0027t do liaisons right so I generally generally I could look to Deborah but I don\u0027t remember ever doing one I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s a hard fast rule about it but I\u0027m not sure what the idea say about an individual document to anyone other than it\u0027s an individual document yeah this is Debra um looking at this it says Lou said we don\u0027t usually do individual documents but what we could do is layer zones based on 3gpp already did lay its on to us saying about interests in the work and another one that is doing this type of work is itu ascetic with 15 they\u0027ve started a 5g work so you could lay eyes on to them just saying we have interest to to look at architectures to support 5g or network slicing and we\u0027d be interested if you would communicate you know the standard words we used to you know if you can communicate with us on on any work you\u0027re doing now I mean the question or timing of whether we do it now though we have something adopted no I would do it now I 3115 is going full blast along with this and the only thing I would caution also on the individual documents because I saw on the earlier one the data plane technology was flexi well that\u0027s not the only data playing technology and in fact that one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:18",
    "text": "depending on how you define flexi is not standard so um be very careful I would be very careful on any linking even to individual documents just say just make something very general you know you started looking at this it\u0027s those are those data plane technologies blunt ah you know to either Oh AF or to ITU driven I if you think we should be setting a liaison proposed some text and will hash it out and Deborah will certainly take a look at it make sure we don\u0027t step into any minefield cool Adrian Farrell so there\u0027s a win-lose in here for odo consultant so Dan is carefully getting himself off edit two things and I find myself being the person doing the merge so these are all individual drafts at the moment so I\u0027m working with the author\u0027s across the three drafts to try to do exactly what Dan said and which is essentially to put a CTN into Jaden\u0027s document as one of the candidate technologies for approaching the problem space and I think that\u0027s working okay but I keep having these wretched meetings to go to instead of editing what I notice him along the way and that cuts into this thing that you were talking about with liaison is that we\u0027ve got four terms kicking around which almost the same set VPN VPN plus virtual network and network slice and they seem to be pretty much nay same names for the same thing depending on where you view it from and I hope that that will actually pop out it explicitly in the edited document and then to Debra\u0027s point about data planes the original genomes original document was very packet focused which is fine as we bring a CTN it massively opens up the underlay network to be pretty much any tea technology as as you would expect so that that becomes clear as well so I want to make it I want to confirm that the Adrian and well the authors think that it\u0027s worthwhile to do a merge of the documents or if they think we should ask the working group if they would like to proceed with separate documents so I\u0027m asking the authors of the individual documents which way they prefer and the interesting thing about is Adrian and Dan may argue with each other here because they have may have opposite interests so specifically authors do you want to do the merge or do you want to see if we have support for doing separate as a cause of different Rockefeller he has an APN draft I mean supportive of the merging of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:18",
    "text": "these three trapped yeah I think that\u0027s pretty clear statement Thank You Daniella I didn\u0027t have a question either but it was freezing there so I preferred that to stand up which it\u0027s good it\u0027s important to exercise as well yeah no it\u0027s warmer so provided that that I think the BPM plus is a good work something that is missing and something that we should work on we should be careful with saying that for us a VPN Plaza is a metal slicing because if we merge everything and we say this is our solution for metro slicing we are implicitly saying that the BPM plus is Metro slicing not one of the possible declinations of Metro slicing etc that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying Netta slicing is a much bigger problem is not just VPN plus solves part of the network slicing problem yeah yes it was it was originally intended to solve the data plane and lower layers and some of the control some last base of it network slicing it\u0027s always a much much much bigger problem and we deliberately when we first did this didn\u0027t use the term network slicing because we were trying to solve a problem that the universe was useful in its own right was applicable to some aspects of networks licensing and network slicing is a very controversial subject or it was when we started so but it\u0027s not the complete solutions Network slicing okay it\u0027s a core cause of one or two of the three drafts I support merger with clarification of what EPN plus and that tuck slicing means also another thing is we use a network slicing in T\u0027s working group for te network slicing so I think we need to clarify that as well we\u0027re not talking about 3gpp network slicing but transport or traffic engineering network slicing that\u0027s what our scope is so we actually need to wrap this up because we\u0027re massively over time so but the plan is for some document merging and maybe some clarification going in and do we have a estimate of when that will happen are we talking months weeks I was okay so all right so that that\u0027s gonna be pretty quick so we\u0027d like to see if there\u0027s interest in working in the working group on this topic yet so who\u0027s interested in working on the topic of the last level and that\u0027s a very healthy number the he of course will need to see the merge document to know whether or not it is a good foundation for work in the working group I think we would like to give him the level of interest and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:18",
    "text": "discussion we\u0027d like to not wait for the next meeting to do a poll and so expect the chairs to take a look at the document see that it matches what we think the discussions have been and then then move towards a poll one question so there is another draft as well third draft so I\u0027ll be happy to talk with the authors but I think your assertion that we should not wait and all is very hasty unless the working group see the third draft is unfair so something\u0027s adopted that\u0027s the start of the process and the nice thing is is the content of the document the the ownership of the content moves from the individual authors to the working group so it\u0027ll be perfectly appropriate at that point to look at the content that you have and have the working group say yeah we want to bring this into that same document and bring it in and we could even do a replace if we think so if that that\u0027s the right thing so just because we adopt doesn\u0027t mean we\u0027re locked in stone and it doesn\u0027t mean the text that you could contribute goes on the floor means that there\u0027s an opportunity to bring it into the working group document yeah but but I think I mean I\u0027ve been willing to work with the author of the to draft even before the working adoption poll my dad would be that\u0027s a question for the other yes yes be happy to have input yeah so I mean I think then I think we should all work together and come down with great thank you we are behind by about 15 minutes now if the next presenter can jog over here that would be good afternoon yes I\u0027m said develop tea I\u0027m going to present the interworking between controller and gmpls this draft has been already presented in the sea camp last time but was considered more technology analytic so now is presenting here in teeth so what is the purpose of this draft the purpose is to present to make some consideration about the fact that with respect the scenario in which there was GPL as in the network and maybe with the animation about and with the set of protocol that we know the MPLS is base "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:20",
    "text": "now there is the new scenario in which the yes Sdn and particularly we consider the case of your article controller light intensity and contesta on top of gentlest network and the question is that someone can consider that as an alternative and this document want to show the fact that the scenario is absolutely compatible and complimentary one to the other the major changes since the last IDF is replaced the name because is now is this the document and we receive some comment and remove some signaling option like a CL DP and we have updated references there are other comments that we received we have not time to address about bt pls consideration some comment from adren well we will update accordingly next version ok this is a example of interworking the the topology case in which you have practical three type of interfaces we have the interfaces well that is at local resource discovery level that is basically provided the island P\u0026G MPLS contest then there is the the the face number two that is providing flooding of information by routing protocol that creating topology in the context of JP Ellis and we have the new one that that is the third one between the controller or PC in case the PC is acting as a central controller and the different network element in the network so in case you have topology update you have showing a new number of Ln P message to update with the new node we have flooding of information providing the new message and we have update towards the network controller if for example to Usenet conf and we use topology model we use also use a notification to provide information they control at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:22",
    "text": "about the exchange the change in the network in case of service provisioning we try to encompass all in this type of table in which we provide information that with the different level starting from complete distributed control plane so practically based on what we know about gmpls with the path computation based on OSPF information path set up with as opt and resource update again with the OSPF to create the traffic engineer database and they the second column that is exactly the best the major interested that is the inter working between the centralized path computation with the distributed signal so with that but computation can be provided by pi support net conference cough and then the setup that is providing still providing with our sweetie with signaling protocol and then a complete centralized approach in which again we can also exploit both PS at the support net confit and model so these are the three level and the three type of possibility in which we presented the situation in which there is also complete interworking between a central controller and distributed control plane so we receive on the last time eating good consents of about the topic so the christening they\u0027re working between distributed and centralized control we are open to suggestion regarding more detailed description of the scenarios maybe for recovery we think that is a good starting point for this work and so we would ask so to ask working on abduction and well one point that we probably need is to have some support or some interest from operators that can provide feedback about scenarios and so to improve the document with the reactionaries from operator prospective comments I noticed that the document says it\u0027s a most standard is that the intent or is this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:22",
    "text": "going to be in a desert is this tool to become what will be an informational document or a standard track document I think it is there you see is informational document okay I think that\u0027s what it says apparently I\u0027m wrong okay how many have read this document how many think we should be working on this problem in the working group it\u0027s actually related to some other so both of those had you know an okay number how many think this document is ready for adoption it\u0027s an okay number about saying how many think that we should wait for the additions that the author suggested no one so I think that\u0027s an indication I mean I wouldn\u0027t say that that was a huge support not overwhelming so I will talk offline and see whether what we think should be the next step the chairs will pop so thank you and keep it short okay I can do that so just a very quick introduction like the previous talk was about gmpls this is kind of focusing on IP network and specially focusing on interaction with other protocols like BGP I\u0027ll skip that let\u0027s just focus the first key part is the interaction between the P components and the non T components so T components is everything which is described in a CDN and how that fits in with the other don.t interactions that needs to happen within her idea of IP controllers so that\u0027s something that\u0027s basically being described in this document so we have the T information kind of well hashed in the last update this time with the help of my co-authors and new contributions basically from the BGP point of view added what are the various things in the BGP protocol that can be used when you have a variety of controller what role would the root reflector play what role would the routing policies can play what are the different work that could be used that\u0027s been done in the idea or in other places when we have a variety of IP controllers and how it interacts with the that the TE tunnels or the or the AC T and V n that\u0027s been created using the AC TN philosophy so we added details about the flow spec the BMP the bgp LS etc this is document is not describing anything new it\u0027s just referencing how the work that\u0027s been done in the T part and the non T part can come together in to reach services like seamless MPLS so it gives step by step how things would have happened here l3 VPN etc and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:26",
    "text": "what we go in detail also is all the various control plane and the management plane protocol that can come in so we described the piece of work which fits quite well and in this update we added details related to BGP as well so policy flows back BGP LS a BMP etc just as a informational document describing how everything comes together still from the yang models as well we kind of listed what are the various yang models that are of interest so we added BGP related we still have a big question mark that still undecided is the yang model at the service layer that is above the MD SC or the super controller is quite clear things are very clear at the device level things becomes a little dicey when we talk of network configuration model on the domain controller so especially if you are doing an interest and 3 VPN setup how do I tell only the the domain controller of a s1 what to do that part is not yet here so with this exercise we also wanted to bring out what are the gaps that are kind of missing and something that we need to work towards and if there is some other work that you feel fits into this we would like to add that so we really require some feedback here as well we also listed some gaps something that we think could be useful between the set of controllers so when the two controllers are talking to each other what\u0027s the best way to learn the capability of each of the controllers could the yang model work best or should we use some other mechanism how do we set up the relationship what\u0027s the best things to do here what if there are multiple instances of controller so all these questions which are still open in our mind so we really would like that discussion also to happen somewhere here and basically the main aim for the presentation is we still need a lot of feedback we have got few especially from the BGP side but from the other side as well om and other yang model things we would require some feedback some gaps maybe what is missing and you like the previous work which was focusing on the gmpls this being focusing on IP we wanted to see if there is interest in the work here walking to the mic is the scope just for applicability of actn to packet are you going beyond the ICT and framework so beyond the actn because I\u0027m talking about BGP so that\u0027s definitely doesn\u0027t come in but if this document does have the BGP related stuff air and I think that\u0027s the main thing because when we used to talk to some customers they wanted this clarity that how is this everything coming together like I understand this model exists you have a CT and you have this thing but how does it all come together what are the things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:27",
    "text": "that I need to worry about so with that in mind we wrote this informational document said it will find a very quick question do you see the possibility of a generic integration of all controllers type document that is all of your draft and all of the previous one and possibly something else as well I think we can definitely talk about it that\u0027s a possibility okay that would be interesting although I note that this scope was just like.he network yeah so like so it\u0027s still interesting it\u0027s an interesting yeah I mean his his was IP networks and Hamlin\u0027s was sort of Jim Gillis networks and I wonder whether there\u0027s a all controllers or networks how many are interested in the topic even if you haven\u0027t read the document are you interested in this topic that that\u0027s a reasonable number I think it would be really good to follow up on on Adrian\u0027s idea and report back to the list what you\u0027ve decided okay thank you and we\u0027re gonna say the same thing we said the last Locker speaker five minutes please okay this is not about that um okay so basically this is about you know that I have like already at several service mapping to tunnel models and this kind of mess a little bit right so basically to solve that the wrote yet another model right so basically the problem is today is that the services they the service to tunnel mapping its server specific and it\u0027s explicit basically you define the servants service foo you defined like a Cyril configuration parameters and somewhere down this configuration you have this little leaf ref that point to one or several tunnels that you want to the source to be carried by bye-bye okay so in in many cases it works fine especially like in hard separation cases when you really need hard separation between services and tunnels that they use it but in other cases it presents some problem like for example the cardinality of services two tunnels could be M to n where m could be a very large number of different services instances of different types so let\u0027s say it\u0027s 500 okay so you basically configure 500 mapping and the first question is how do you know how many services you could put on this number of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:28",
    "text": "tunnels okay so before it goes beyond the utilization the capacity of the tunnels the second question is what happens if you want to do a change okay like for example you add another site or you change the tunnel and so so today the only possibility is to go and issue another 500 reconfigurations to remap the tunnels to remedy services to new tunnels so what happens if some tunnels basically become underutilized and you want to remove them so those kind of questions so I\u0027ll flip you wanna flip slate yeah haha sorry okay you have less than two months but let it go back yeah right so our solutions basically you map services to two tunnel pools you you you basically make service steering implicit you can feel your services and you say instead of weapon sources to tunnels you service food to tunnel base tunnel pool like fast tunnels okay and you\u0027re done with their service Syrian so everything else is all about managing the pools okay so for example you can start with the one tunnel and measure the utilization see if it goes beyond certain threshold you can add another tunnel and you don\u0027t have to do all this remapping if you add another site again basically you create a new tunnel and so yeah but because it\u0027s already within the pool so you don\u0027t have to do anything else so this this would in our opinion will clearly decouple the service definition from service Tyrian okay and say you can have a service which could be delivered say by IP network or it could be delivered by Orion network so we can have the same model that where you define the service per se and then you just map it to different pools okay so at this moment we just is just an idea how to make the source steering like a cleaner and easier to to work with that\u0027s all you know eating in the air time I\u0027m eating my time it\u0027s fine a very quick question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:28",
    "text": "I like the idea of but I would suggest it whoever also pools made by one single tunnel if possible because I would like to see to give the possibility also to say I want that specific tunnel to be used and not one of those tunnels the service mapping per se right so for example if you define the service you have two options we just offer an additional option we say you can use this tunnel you use tunnel Igor okay that\u0027s it most or you use a tunnel pool which is say red or fast tunnels and then you do whatever you want to do within the pools okay you forget about service steering at this point yeah ETL you say I agree with Igor I think it\u0027s better to have the option to other references that the tunnel or the pool because otherwise we have to create a pool with one tunnel and a reference a pool it\u0027s much simpler if you my requirement was a single time and if it\u0027s a ton a pool of one ordinary and go to the next one it was yours so they think there\u0027s clearly interested interested more discussions on the strap and so you know just I wanted your people you know the chairs opinion about that so that\u0027s an idea if if we\u0027re going with that we\u0027ll walk with that again it\u0027s it\u0027s not the chairs to decide it\u0027s for the working group and I think the conversation has demonstrated there\u0027s at least interest in talking about it on a list sure I\u0027ll try to be as short as possible to mean it\u0027s more than enough if this works you are eating my time not the sex so it right so you have seven minutes what can I tell him five more minutes make it work no I trying son back the fester back yeah okay okay so scope scope of the drafter basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:28",
    "text": "we received a lot of comments during many a CT and presentations and words okay but how does is does this apply to packet optical or more in general to multi-layer so main scope of the draft is to explain the applicability of a city and to a multi-layer environment and how VPNs map into this focus is mostly are the isolation because you basically you go deeper into the stack when you go want to go for our diesel isolation this is a strictly related to the te and service mapping function next please previously I\u0027m not touching anything so yes so before jumping into the packet optical stuff for just a recap of our actn and the layer 2 layer 3 VPN services fit into the same picture so here we have the article Sdn controller the MDRC is one of the functionalities of the Sdn controller so it\u0027s the guy that talks to the various PNC\u0027s and the dependency itself is one of the functionalities of the domain Sdn controller one other functionality could be the VPN provisioning we call it a VPN service box which can use network models to ask the domain controller to set up a layer 3 VPN layer 2 VPN or whatever or device models to go and directly configure it on the nodes so this is a slider that you\u0027ve seen in the previous presentation these are the different types of te and service mapping models so Nubian with the tunnel bonding existing anubian with the tunnel sharing or Nubian with the tunnel modify in particular in the first case we have three different subsets as are the isolation with the deterministic characteristics hard isolation and soft isolation the focus of this draft is the first two items okay so in the drafter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:35",
    "text": "you will see three different scenarios proposed them we can go through the first one because they are very similar the first one is about single let me say client domain IP MPLS domain a single server domain so AE an optical domain but after describes how what\u0027s the procedure to follow to build this Vienna spanning multiple domains of something that is needed for packet optical integration for the isolation of observe assist basically if you have several steps on the northbound side of the MVC or better the hierarchical Sdn controller you receive a request for a service requesting for hard isolation in the packet optical network the request is processed by the mdac which decomposes it into a request for the underlay which in turn which creates new connectivity in the in the server in the client domain and then on top of these connectivity is possible to build that will the des services so step number four the vrf is is created and the binding between the the service and the underlay infrastructure is created next two slides are basically showing it\u0027s something you can find in the draft are showing how these applies also to multiple packet domains on top of the same server domain the in the same optical domain or multiple combinations of them we can skip them conclusion and next step so we we wrote this document because we felt that there was the need to clarify some things mostly how is it even applies to our isolation packet optical integration and the binding of services and and to eat on earth whatever is an underlying infrastructure so now the question did the document solve solve the issue shed some light on on the issue there are some other topic if so there are some other topics that you want to be clarified you wanted to throw everything away because it\u0027s a super clear is the question for the working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:39",
    "text": "any comments from the working group how many think that this is a useful piece of work okay so we have a few hands how many think that they this is not anything we should be talking about in the working group no one so I it seems like the working group would like to hear more about this and maybe talk a little bit more on the list and be good too there we go it would be good to get foster some discussion there Thanks thank you so amytal woozy from away I\u0027m presenting this draft that is providing ceiling extension for gmpls for Sherman\u0027s protection a bit of history an initial version of this rafters present in the last IDF meeting in the second working group was merely erasing the configuration of audio SNP and but we got a comment that the basic requirement what we are doing in this document is just extending RSC for a 72 with a new protection type which can be used for SMP and is very generic and not audio specific so we can this should be addressed to T\u0027s and we are therefore we have a new draft submitted at this meeting to the t\u0027s working group that we are presenting so there\u0027s that comment what was the change that we have done to the old draft is quite um minor we have made a text margin Erica so we just we make it and we generalize the picutre of this document to SMP and therefore we reference the itu-t recommendation later 803 which is generic S\u0026P specific definitions and we keep the reference to a 73.3 for audio specific and we have added a reference to the RFC 741 to that provides requirement offers and P in the context of MPLS DP the signaling protocol extensions are no need to changer so they are aware or revision Eric so they are okay and we made some few editorial so in the the generic aspects of it okay we have said that generic a spacer is a toiletry 70.3 doe is only audio specific and ferrous if 741 to is requirements and we propose to update for a seven to four SNP generica and can be applied to any technology I will skip disap to the left of saving time so this is a brief introduction of what is SMP they the fact that we have working a protection LSP and pleasure speed can share bandwidth and we need to signal them then the description of how we signal them are provided here and this in the draft so what are the changes that we propose is basically to create - are - indeed to define a new protection type as for a sharona\u0027s protection to let denotes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:40",
    "text": "along the path for testing at they\u0027re protecting part that we need they need they need to implement SNP and use aps data plane for activating the protecting LSP and then we change the behavior of the N and you operate in the obits because the and our beats are the behavior are the finer for different protection type so we have added how they should behave in case of SNP so what are an example we would like to get the feedbacks from the working group and we think the extensions are quite simple so we think the document is almost ready for adoption if there is interesti-- 3c types on that production so you are proposing some change to see that - so it would be useful to point out which particular C type this yep 3 ha yeah now the C type of object okay C type F I don\u0027t think the draft yeah I did you say it at the top okay oh no I think it should be the same as one day but at three types but yeah a in the doc in when I look for the C type it in show up but and we we do currently don\u0027t have any registry for LSP flags but given that we are getting the types of various documents we may want to consider that so you suggestion is to put the right now so you don\u0027t have any okay we need to take yeah we will take it occurs in a revision yeah Thank You DW Nokia I have a question the draft also talks about sharpness restoration which and says it\u0027s this is a similar mechanism like mesh restoration but as opposed to share my meshed restoration shop must mesh protection is the mechanism that\u0027s supported by the data plane marissa.surmacz restoration is done in the control plane so how do the two two mechanisms coexist is there any issue because both are dealing with spare resources in the network to use those resources in the event of a failure oh yeah so your point is where you have both SMP and SMR in the same network and I think that I will expect that the resources sharing will be different so SMP NSM are will not share resources if they are on the same network that\u0027s I I don\u0027t despair that we coexist but if they do I think that that I don\u0027t think you need to to share resources between SMPS mr even so you don\u0027t know what are trying to standardize here basically I do not understand what is the environment for example do you envision like multi-vendor Jim palace network that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:40",
    "text": "walk in harmoniously in like a shelter restoration shed protection thing well if the requirement is that I need to set up image impedance network the working gillespie and the protecting LSP and when I set up the protection LSP the intermediate nodes needs to know that the protagonists P belongs to an SMP rotational schema rather than SLR or rather than linear protection so they need to understand how to to program on the protecting LSP my question is is it a single vendor environment or Matsu in the environment as of today I don\u0027t expect it\u0027s going to be C multi vendor because there is no common API signaling so why we\u0027re talking about asthma because it\u0027s the standard is a generic standard solution so if how many are interested in this work it\u0027s a pretty small number how many have read the document it\u0027s more not to be a good sign okay maybe I\u0027ll talk with Pavan afterwards if we have a specific recommendation on how to but they don\u0027t have one at this moment other than try to get foster more discussion on the list okay yes thank you I\u0027ll note that it looks like we don\u0027t have energy to keep talking nor do we have time we you were or you had a draft that we were talking about at the end of the last session that we were hoping to start rolling in this session we\u0027re clearly not doing that now but please continue that discussion on the list that was really good ones we were we didn\u0027t want to cut it off okay thank you thank you all and see you at the next meeting I don\u0027t even know where the Prague [Music] "
  }
]