[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:31",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] it\u0027s listen to preaching okay we\u0027re gonna get started could somebody close the door in the back welcome to lamps so we asked for a one-hour slot because we had just a few presentations and many of our documents were with the ISG and then along came a whole bunch of requests after we had only a one-hour slot for requests for additional work so we\u0027re gonna keep a quick pace in the hopes to get through them all but if we don\u0027t get to the the last ones I added them in a kind of first-come first-serve basis and so we\u0027ll do what we can to keep time that said this is an ITF meeting note well applies by this time you\u0027ve seen this slide a lot of you know in your various meetings but please these are the the rules about the standards process and and conduct code of conduct and IPR disclosures so we recently completed two sym documents sort of they\u0027re in the earth 48 so we know if there are see numbers are but we don\u0027t they\u0027re not yet we haven\u0027t actually seen the official publication announcement yet so this is the agenda for today you the first slug of these will be very very short in fact many of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:32",
    "text": "them don\u0027t even have slides but we want to make sure that if somebody has an issue they have an opportunity to raise it and then we\u0027ll move to the active working group documents of which there\u0027s one and then no I forgot to update the slide we do have a presentation then two presentations on header protection and then a whole bunch of other business the reason I put the header protection ones first is we have a recharter before the is g24 work that is not yet approved but we\u0027re waiting to hear on that okay so that\u0027s it for the chair slides any questions about them okay so in terms of the agenda the first one is the CAA document which is with the is G I\u0027m going to let Tim take care of that one all right do you have size for this one we don\u0027t need slaw oh right okay I\u0027m gonna take her who\u0027s gonna be the minute taker for this meeting all right Thank You JavaScript make sure thank you the blue shirts are going around all right all right so back to my original question do you have size for this one no sites for this one all right so this one has been submitted to the ASG I\u0027m not aware of any open issues with it so unless somebody has something bringing up on this particular item we\u0027ll move on to the next one all right thanks everyone all right the next one is the hash of root key third extension that went through a fairly long last call came back to the working group to sort some issues they were sorted there\u0027s a couple things that were declared in the rough but then it was sent back to the is G so I believe ITF last call is over but iesg evaluation is not yet finished but they have not sent any issues back to us so there\u0027s nothing to talk about the next two are the shake documents P kicks and CMS Quinn you want to give us a status or Panos they in the room okay well I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:32",
    "text": "don\u0027t see them the we\u0027re in the same situation with them they\u0027re with the is G we have not received any comments yet so nothing to do until they do the next one is hash based digital signatures that one was just sent to the is G I have some slides posted I\u0027m just going to jump to the end because we have so many other presentations I want to just do the status slide small Corrections were made to align with the McGrew hash SIG\u0027s document which is now in all 48 we\u0027ll get a RC number momentarily the last issue that was sorted was how to deal with the two situations in CMS when they\u0027re signed attributes and there\u0027s not signed attributes that was the last discussion on the list thanks Jim for that one he pushed really hard for the same approach being used across different places and anyway that was the winning so we completed last last call and it\u0027s been sent to the isg we have not yet heard of security ad review being done that\u0027s where that\u0027s is so no issues to talk about that I\u0027m or anyone have any okay so I\u0027ll move to the presenters mic for this okay Russ Housley this is how to use pre-shared keys with the cryptographic message syntax it\u0027s the working groups only active document that is in charter it\u0027s weird yeah handle decides alright the first is why would you want to mix a PSK with other key management techniques the answer is for quantum protection this is a short-term solution the long-term solution is quantum resistant public key crypto algorithms there\u0027s a whole list competition going on regarding that I\u0027m not trying to usurp it just trying to have something for now next so basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:36",
    "text": "what you do is you mix a PS k with a key that comes from one of the other approaches key transport meaning an RSA like algorithm so you mix a PS k with the key that\u0027s distributed under RSA and key agreement a diffie-hellman like scheme so the resulting shared secret gets mixed with the PS k to produce the resulting key so there\u0027s a mechanism defined for each of those in the draft this is uh slides unchanged from last time it just explains the two approaches which I just summarized this is more detail next so summary to the recent changes the way that the key agreement was described talked about a key derivation key but when you actually looked back at the other CMS documentation zyk talked about producing a key exchange key so to align the terminology with the things that are are they are sees we talked about using the key agreement scheme to produce ke k1 mixing it with the PSK to produce ke ke to its just so that the terminology lines up across documents once we have so to do that the a key derivation function is used and so we defined this one called the CMS Ori for PSK other info okay and basically that is the other info used as part of the key derivation input and that is the place where we\u0027re putting the PSK in the previous version we were concatenated the shared secret and the PSK this basically provides if you go read about h KDF and some of the other structures they talk about other private info as one of the inputs to at the PS k and that that seemed to be the place to put it just from a aligning with the terminology section so that was the change that was made and then we added examples to append to Appendix A and appendix B 1 does a key trans example in one does a key agreement example next slide so I\u0027m calling for review I think the draft is now ready for working group last call now that it\u0027s got examples it but I\u0027d love for someone to check the examples because they\u0027re just a Python script that I threw together to the slam it all together I found some Python asn.1 libraries and anyway please send "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:39",
    "text": "comments to the list since I\u0027m author of this document Tim will make all of the consensus calls related to it and does anybody have any issues they know about other or should we begin working group last call soon yes poll in the middle okay seeing no hands Tim please start working group last call on this I will all right thank you I\u0027m also going to try to find time to look at your examples but no promises yeah Bernie you want to do both or will you want to do yours and or is what do you want to start with yours please okay so we\u0027ll do yours switch squeeze okay my name is Permian and the function I speak for the pepper foundation is working on header protection in a slightly different weight and in s mine but I\u0027ll come to that next slide so how do we sit in order and myself wrote the draft on the topic header protection that contains some generic use cases and a first set of requirements to be a discussion on and then there is some implementation report on the topic most describing how the Peck implementation is doing the header protection which is pretty similar than what\u0027s in the s/mime "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:39",
    "text": "button complete later next slide please so to make room for this presentation is that we have a pending reach otto is adding this shot item for adding a topic to encrypt all signature of petals I\u0027m not going to the details of this next slide please so I thought the picture says 11,000 volts so basically what we have a channel is the left side he has a head on and we have a content the content can be protected easily but the header cannot be protected as such that s my proposed since version 3.1 is to put the whole message and drop it into a new mail message so that you can protect also head apart it gives slight instructions on what you put out to header but it\u0027s kind of lacking also some stuff and the bigger problem is that the implementation of this mechanism is not so right there is one for sure and a couple of other implementations that may have implemented in s mine and if you go to the next slide please there is a pimp lamentation it doesn\u0027t do it for s mine yet but is planning to replace mine or test on it for PGP in this way it\u0027s pretty similar except for the message we also include the public key to the header protection so it\u0027s a multi-part mine structure that is first taking the header and the content of the original message in one part and then the public key in another part next please so now it\u0027s a site that doesn\u0027t require kind of feedback from the stage over the floor this kovitch protection they will use case science group so we have for sure signature and encryption is a use case there is probably also a use case for signature only what is being done clear if we need to address a use case encryption only also or whether we can just like consider this as the same as it\u0027s the first one like signature and encryption all that this needs to be separate or we can lift it completely out although any comments from you guys [Music] this is the no can\u0027t go more from this he are you so I think we need to say something specifically about see yeah just because it\u0027s gonna happen and I do think that there are user interface concerns that come up when you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:41",
    "text": "encrypted headers in an encrypted message that doesn\u0027t have a signature so I do think that we\u0027re gonna need to deal with see one way or the other I don\u0027t like it it\u0027s kind of annoying that we have this messiness but that\u0027s the you know we\u0027re inheriting you know this is the problem this is the curse of the deployed base right that\u0027s what we\u0027re struggling with so I think we have to deal with it so I would love to I\u0027d love to drop it but I I do think and I do but I do think it\u0027s distinct from a understand why you you don\u0027t like the sea but what if we treat sea as a very plain email right so there\u0027s no authentication there just a protection for the data but why that bothers you so this is DK Jaden sir I\u0027m sorry if what we say if we decide that what we want to say is user agents receiving a message like this should not display any sort of security indicators that\u0027s fine but we still need to say something right that\u0027s what I\u0027m said like the use case needs to be addressed from my point of view max power cable ends I would like to keep it and make sure that your eyes don\u0027t don\u0027t assume this is a secure email this is not the securing menu it\u0027s just a protection mechanism for the data that\u0027s it so let me just be clear one things I really like about this draft is that it calls out these specific cases and says we need to make sure that we are addressing each of them and it feels tedious it feels like it makes me tired thinking about all the cases but we have to do it and so one things that I really like about this draft is that it\u0027s very explicit and says here\u0027s the things that we have to make sure that we cover in order to do this stuff and while I would like to have fewer things to cover I think we have to do okay thanks so I don\u0027t think you have so much discussion on this it\u0027s basically which interaction case we need to support like certainly if both clients have bought new head protection mechanisms but we also need to probably support that if trying to supports that new mechanism is talking to a client who doesn\u0027t know anything about header protection we probably also have say something about the other thing if email comes in from an unaware client to one who supports it and the last one is just for the sake of completeness unaware headache like unreal client sending an email to unaware we probably need to look at it document some small things but I think we can mostly leave it out next slide this is probably causing more discussions like how well we deal with the legacy stuff I heard "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "different statements like we should leave the legacy completely out probably can\u0027t do that we probably have to deal with what\u0027s already in standard since s/mime 3.1 and we also probably need to think when we extend this to the PGP world about other implementations but again I would like to have some feedback from the floor if there is any dkg again we do need to think about what these interaction cases are and so again like I mean this is the same comment that I made before but like this is tedious and this is what we signed up for a long we deal with encrypted email so I really do appreciate that we have this list of the different cases I\u0027m not sure maybe there\u0027s a way that we can coalesce some of them but I do think that we need to be thinking we do at least explicitly say here\u0027s what happens with it with legacy clients and here\u0027s what we expected here\u0027s what we expected to be done and if the answer is we can\u0027t figure out how to fix them and that interaction and that\u0027s fine but we need to call that out in the draft and say this is something that we don\u0027t like it these people will be sad in this interaction and here\u0027s why okay any fell documents yeah just very much in line with this if we know of I know inside the facts and major clients which a legacy then and depending on the course we you know we decide you know then we\u0027ll it but if we can document at least and say you might observe this in the wild this is the sort of behavior and we might or might not have a recommendation both pussy okay thanks so I try to find all the requirements you need to think that doesn\u0027t mean that you really need to address train but it\u0027s probably a list it\u0027s basically a list that contains what if you drink it what I expect from discussion here is that if there is something missing we need to consider it that you let me know really we let the room know that we need to consider it as well we probably don\u0027t have time to go into the requirements whether or not it makes sense that I should be changed so we probably don\u0027t have the time today to discuss about tech but for me it would be most helpful if I know if I missed something or if we missed something so I speak to in general requirements set aside and receive site requirements in general we need to specify the format you are going to use the mime structure content type and so on what is from us for outside need to think about transport of public keys which is probably not in everybody\u0027s focus it should be easily "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:43",
    "text": "implementable and we should think about the mitigation of man-in-the-middle attacks or in particular downgrade attacks and the p1 means they cost compatibility to the to clients knowing nothing about data protection this will be in the next presentation malik say we explained that you need probably to find the means to distinguish between a robot message or just a rocked message for encryption next please then the sender requirements is in the signature case you need to define which header fields we should protect in the encryption case we need to figure out which header fields need to be left in clear but we also need to think about what should be not in clear send a waterway on and there\u0027s also like requirement which other fields you should not include in any header protection part for example the BC seemed a better idea to include that to have a protected field because that\u0027s probably not meant for the final destination then draft I also discussed a bit about kind of the future negotiation mechanism not sure we need that or not but probably we should be able to tell we support this new header protection just to reach the cording to the new one and also we should probably think about how the subject header field can be piece displayed to have a protection on our clients so if we do something with the message and the receiver needs to figure out there is the subject so what we need to think about that receiver requirement is next slide we need to think about if there\u0027s conflicting information in the protected area and the unprotected area how we deal with that we solve it at unprotected areas overwritten but a lot of people like to have other requirements and we need again to think about the detection of the man in the middle attacks especially downgrade attacks and again the indication of detection for support of new header protection comes here as well in a receiver side next I skip the requirements for interaction incorporation with the legacy clients probably skipping actually I just keep the requirements because you don\u0027t have time to also go into that don\u0027t offer any comments on requirements in particular interested it amiss something Aleksey I think it\u0027s pretty comprehensive thank you for doing this the only other thing I can think of is actually regarding legacy ones your I considerations with everything else equal if two alternative have different UI side effects on legacy clients that might help us decide pockets in it if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:47",
    "text": "you go back to the center down to two slides down please yeah partly it\u0027s in it in the ps3 what they probably can be enhanced to what you just meant that general you are considerations yeah I think it\u0027s yeah yeah that\u0027s what I think okay any more comments or requirements missing on something this is DJ G so I think this is a great enumeration of requirements that we can nitpick about which things belong exactly and under what what section here but I think you\u0027ve done a good job of identifying the concerns I will note that ps3 there is actually is actually about legacy clients right so you you haven\u0027t skipped legacy clients that\u0027s that in fact ps3 made and yak be the specific question about legacy clients so yeah so let\u0027s see I need to keep that in mind yeah yeah correct okay any further comments by the way is there some so for those of you who want to know more about our implementation and what we intend to do yeah just got a mailing list approved for missing elements for this same is centralized usable privacy you find here the information how we can sign up and we decided to make a non working group meeting on Thursday evening it\u0027s after all the sessions there will be an introduction there will be some researchers from University of Luxembourg speaking about specific topics in the area and we\u0027ll give a status update documents and probably talk about some issues and how we go on to further and there\u0027s also a link to the current agenda welcome to join there and they also have some list if you could indicate that you\u0027re coming so or if we know how many people to expect it yeah that\u0027s I think it\u0027s my last slide if there are any questions feel free to ask them now otherwise Alex\u0027s continue with the same topic alright sorry this is dkg one more one comment about about hiding so I\u0027ve been alive half written draft that I meant I have a draft email of comments on this that I haven\u0027t something to list yet and I will shortly but I wonder thing I want to mention you talked about the mime structure issues I do think that we need to think clearly about the mime structure issues both for us my men for PGP mime but I\u0027m concerned that at least some pieces in the draft seem to impose pretty severe constraints on the payload of the message that I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:49",
    "text": "not that that feel like there might be starting to expand the scope beyond questions of just header protection and I think that they\u0027re there in a section that I think it\u0027s mainly implementation description of like things that you\u0027ve done but I want to make sure that we don\u0027t like I think that this draft will become unwieldy if it starts to say by the way this is only gonna work if your message payload happens to have the following structure right I think we can say stuff about how the cryptographic envelope is going to be structured to make sure that this works but I but I think it would be good to make sure that we prune out stuff that says you have to have a structure in this way we may need so I\u0027m just wary of that particular issue and so I\u0027m happy to work with you to try to try to make sure that we can get that in shape but I don\u0027t want it to I don\u0027t want to say you can\u0027t send arbitrary mail like this you that this will only work for some subset of emails that strikes me as a potential problem and so we should we can do think about how to how to structure that so just a short answer to that this is like stuff that I made in pretty short time and this is probably what happens if you have in mind 14 implementing then it\u0027s probably coming like this but for sure I\u0027ll put this for discussion and it\u0027s not meant to be like just what we won\u0027t tell so it\u0027s super fit for everybody everybody should be happy about it sounds good so it\u0027s not it\u0027s not my intention to enforce anything of our implementation you go I\u0027m happy to help I\u0027m not offer texting edits and stuff yeah feel free to comment on the list and we\u0027ll take it into consideration all right if we\u0027re done with Allen then we\u0027ll move on to Alexis Harry protection graph so yet to be honest I I didn\u0027t think the chart is not updated we haven\u0027t adopted the document there are still two choices we need to pick from which is a the memory hole type approach or grabbing as in this one document is specified with small tweaks I think this is more of a call for action and plan of action for you know till next ITF next slide please right so this is basically stating the problem and previous presentation done a very good job and talking about requirements are specific you know disagreeing in an outer headers and you know what exactly you want to put in an outer if the inner is encrypted you know the office gate and all kind of scenarios right and the main reason why we have this problem is because most of the Boyd clients they don\u0027t support the text in accountancy so something needs to be done next slide right and just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:52",
    "text": "yeah ideally actually it might be possible requirement we might want to try to address the problem in the same way for sy man open PGP that might not be a strong requirement but it\u0027s nice to have so the problem with What\u0027s in I think the document is on all 48 people already know their RFC number but so there is ambiguity about whether you know if you want to throw the message or if you want to protect header some clients you know wouldn\u0027t have a way to distinguish that oh so it would be nice to have a extra field signal in the difference right and from the practical standpoint even if you pick one of the two mechanisms we still need to give more recommendations about what should be in a header and what should be in outer header because this is quite complicated among even the people who try to implement this I\u0027m not sure we we have quite consensus even on this so I think this would be really helpful to implementers next slide right so this is just recap from the draft I wrote and presented last time there are two choices one is wrapping had there in an extra you know message RFC 82 and the other one is just add all the all the headers together with the content header remember whole approach so yeah we can skip that so this is my proposal what we do next will started talking about requirements so I don\u0027t suggest we should publish our vision requirements but I think it\u0027s very useful to discuss them and agree on the main goals and at least you know must have nice to have this sort of thing I suggest between now and Montreal we try to test like I will be able to update my implementation to implement a the approach and I can generate messages we can try to test and see how they display in legacy clients and try to see if there are any unusual you artifacts or our error conditions these sort of things and maybe we can do something for hackathon this Montreal then once we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:53",
    "text": "have more information we can have a discussion working group pick one solution and then the final step is try to write these specific instructions about minimizing unprotected header fields you know what the recommendations are sounds very easy but we\u0027ll see how it goes can you guys hear me yeah okay great so I\u0027m in case you don\u0027t man Krista Bennett I am the code monkey for the engine-room pep and I have no religious feelings about this but I\u0027m probably one of the few people who\u0027s actually tried to implement both so far and I just wanted to give a quick I guess a quick impression of what the main problem for me was as an implementer and again I have no religious feelings here we didn\u0027t actually try to implement generation of memory hole and this was early on so the draft was you know kind of funny statements kind of hard to tell what was intended well it wasn\u0027t from memory hold the problem for us is that you really can\u0027t tell implementers what kind of mind libraries they\u0027re going to use right we all have different things that we have behind behind the scenes and parsing that was a real pain because I had to hack the mind parser whereas to do this wrapping approach all I really had to do was move something down in a data structure and it also allowed us to decide what we were going to selectively disclose from that header rather than taking an existing header and removing things from it and I know that sounds dumb but it\u0027s just conceptually as an implementer a lot easier to do the latter approach where you\u0027re just saying okay I\u0027m going to move the message down I\u0027m going to take out the stuff I need and stick it in the envelope and off we go so um it\u0027s it\u0027s not it\u0027s not really anything more than a comment but if we had some sort of mechanism to distinguish between wrapped messages and unwrapped and forwarded messages that will be incredibly helpful because what we see in Thunderbird right now also because I made a little implementation boo-boo but that\u0027s another story what we see in Thunderbird right now is that of course it does look fairly ugly because people get a forwarded message and they don\u0027t know why so I think that\u0027s an important thing to do but I also just like I said from an implementation point of view manipulating a data structure where you move something from one node in a tree and you wrap it in something else and stick it in another node in a tree makes generation and parsing a lot easier for most people because most parsers will actually accept this the way it is so that\u0027s all I had to say well thank you for this I actually you know if there are any considerations for it existing API is from my parsing that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:53",
    "text": "very valuable so yeah well that\u0027s all I know so far this is deer I mean my main comment is just like I think that this draft and and Bernie\u0027s draft seem like there there\u0027s probably should be one draft ultimately that the working group works on so if I\u0027m happy to talk with folks about how we how we join them and and it doesn\u0027t make sense to have two drafts that each specify two different mechanisms so I hope we can we can just consolidate into one and if we can get the Charter updated then maybe we can make it just the one document next Daniel on hash signatures so it\u0027s as hash signatures in x.509 it\u0027s very similar to what rusted with hash signatures in CMS next slide well you\u0027ve already seen from Russ\u0027s presentations previously what hash signatures are about so probably skip this stateful small public\u0027s keys large signatures these cases that we\u0027re looking at are because it\u0027s a flow signatures you should be using an HSM to do the signing we\u0027re looking at CA certificates and code signing certificates because mostly friend entities you might not want to be using an HSM to sign entity certificates or to do interactive signatures there is a question on the list whether CMS hash tags was enough our draft also defines X MSS and XM s SMT algorithm identifiers so know also RFC 84 1080 419 defying EDD si in two different drafts I guess not honest Oh so I presented actually this no I presented this remotely in Bangkok and this is just an update of the changes since then basically aligning with Russ\u0027s draft to sign the full message instead of signing the pre hash of the message and there was also just an sn1 including fix I got some clarification from Jim that we didn\u0027t need this extra octet string wrapping of the signature and I just wanted to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:54",
    "text": "a note about full message signing we got this from a partner and HSN partner basically saying that for large messages if you\u0027re gonna sign the full message streaming avi may be needed because HSM can\u0027t store the entire message in memory and they may not like streaming API is because it adds session state to do their api\u0027s this might not be so much of a problem for x.509 and CMS if messages are generally small maybe more so an x.509 if you\u0027re starting to add large quantum safe public keys but even then I don\u0027t think those keys will be so large that a HSM can\u0027t store them in memory next so really just asking for adoption of this draft and whether there\u0027s any comments I\u0027ve been aligning it with CMS hashtags if it\u0027s adopted we could also possibly align it with RFC 84 Toni just so that has similar structure for the because EDD DSA also does the full message signing might make sense to have similar structure between the drafts so sorry I\u0027m I\u0027m speaking up again this is dkg so can you back one slide yeah that\u0027s funny yep it would be really useful if the draft says anything about a streaming API to clarify that it is specifically a streaming API for signing only we have a long history of making screwing up streaming API is for verification where you start emitting data before you emit the signal that the data is actually secured so I it sounds to me like the reason why you might need this form API is specifically for signing only and so hauling that out statistic knows Jim says no no okay so streaming it\u0027s so so big red flag on streaming API is for verification so the traffic doesn\u0027t say anything about stringing API is currently whether it needs to various thing maybe it does see what Jim says Jim shot the reason why you would need a streaming API is if you have a large message to deal with you have to compute actually compute the first hash of that message and that is going to be the same computation both for signing and verification the assumption is not that you\u0027re streaming the signature itself in and out but you the content you\u0027re signing so my understanding was that you\u0027re saying we need the streaming API for signing because it\u0027s an HSM doing the signing and the HSM but is not an HSM during the verification I hope right no so if the rationale for the streaming is HSMs have limited memory and they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:54",
    "text": "can\u0027t handle the entire document that\u0027s just signing only requirement agreat okay max better CableLabs so he\u0027s talking about streaming API because you assume that you cannot transfer this state back to the client from the HSM but that is an option as well yes because if you do that then you can just update the state you don\u0027t need streaming API so there\u0027s no real streaming consideration to be done I guess that is sort of a strong but it\u0027s just yeah but then you have to think a little bit about the consequences of the client being able to plan must modify the hash State in the hash operation and whether that impacts the correctness of the signature Quinn dang at NIST um since I see there a lot of people here I have a question for the group thing about um so when we sign certificates the the key generation time is is not a problem here so why do we have to go to multiple level three instead of just one one one one three one big tree so you\u0027re asking why support Xmas SMT and not just EXO myself right now I don\u0027t see the need for the multiple over trees for signing certificates and you would need a bigger tree you want you want more signatures and whatever you want victory 3x MSS force is ask a flora the biggest tree x-men supports is 20 level there is 1 million signatures oh so could I lead you Lee specify a death small tree for one level tree that is the current limit for X MSS LMS or a our has a limit of 25 so that\u0027s 3 2 million ok the thing is but that so if think about it because when you have multiple over P there is some side channel attack which is applicable to only multiple over tree but not single level tree yeah I can I can I can forward the detective analyst for people to my understanding is it\u0027s a trade off there of time to generate the keys because if you use multiple trees in the HSS you only have to generate the top tree and one of the branches under it you don\u0027t have to generate all the entire tree of trees key until you need to produce the first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:57",
    "text": "signature in the next tree that\u0027s true but the thing is T generation time is not the problem for this kind of applications and on so did you hear that number that number we could change the parameters to make the tree bit go that\u0027s not like something technically you know that we must follow or something yeah but the numbers that are currently in there are kind of the top end of the numbers that are crying in there are actually kind of stretching the boundaries of what\u0027s reasonable for a key generation type to I did not remember that number small but that that is a question for people with a thing off no I think you ran some experiment I think it cost a few minutes Sunday for IMS couple minutes most for LMSs on my system which was multi-core it took an hour and a half for a twenty five level tree twenty five thirty two million signatures enough flow could be not enough okay but even though that\u0027s a multi-core system that he had and if you\u0027re generating it on an HSM it could be more restrict okay what would the constraint would be specification right now motor please seems okay but what would it caveat that I will locate the the side channel attack paper and send it yeah another consideration is when you\u0027re considering these two key generations being an hour in some cases it\u0027s in the middle of some sort of key ceremony so you know you\u0027ve got people sitting in a secure room well this happens just grab a beer okay okay okay I have to cut this off because we only have ten minutes left and we got several more presentations so we\u0027ll do a call for adoption on the list as the next step here thank you all right it\u0027s not there you sent them and I posted no I\u0027m confused we hit refresh yes so I\u0027m going to hit refresh there the hour okay after these exhausts these slides are exciting uh basically you again we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:58",
    "text": "looking at postponed certificates this basically saying gee why do we want them I think we can pass on that hello okay sorry about that post we this about first slide about those clown certificates why we need them we can pass on that when we\u0027re looking at post kalam certificates are to prop me it\u0027s easy enough to say well these this candidate will basically consign it and I identify algorithm identifier and just use it that\u0027s easy but there are two remaining problems one is that we not fully trust these new algorithms and because of quantum computers we may not trust the old Algren leader and so what we do the suggestion we have is to have new composite certificate signatures which actually combine multiple algorithms so that we don\u0027t trust uh any one of them we can trust that not all of them will be broken the other thumb that we do not address in my recurrent to draft is backwards compatibility yeah what we plan to do is actually use both parallel certificates one with the old RSA or ECDSA certificates algorithms and one with these new post quantum algorithms which would most likely include the the composites thank you next slide what are basically our algorithmic it has public key public keys and signatures as outcome identifiers and so we simply do is just combine them to into a larger algorithm which is treated as a single signature algorithm so if public key would basically be just be a sequence of the various public keys for the various algorithms the signature would be just a sequence of the very signatures all signing the exact same data and the algorithm ID would be just be the standard arbitrary ID followed by a sequence of the various component identifiers and so with doing that we can basically all the certificate looks basically like a normal certificate just with a different with a different a newer algorithm and we also would need to take a look at how to make sure that the signer and and the receiver can all understand understand this newer algorithm but that\u0027s going to we\u0027re gonna have to address that or any sort of new algorithm the advantages is simplicity it\u0027s actually relatively it\u0027s no no change at all to the certificate architecture we\u0027re just changing the algorithm nice thing about this is that singer algorithms can be used outside certificates for example if we\u0027re assigning atl site titl s transcript we can use this new composite algorithm to actually do a signature which the which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:59",
    "text": "can be verified and so we\u0027d actually have the state at the hybrid strength our composite strings on extending down into the TLS level and i wrote his TP IPR free I heard that I found out recently that max power has some IPR but apparently he has very a he he has very easy terms and this is the mic so let\u0027s hurry yes and we hope to be working with you with you okay so I\u0027m I had a question for you about I guess the question was because when I read the draft that you posted actually wish Ross Rossum pointed it to me I was really surprised about all the similarities the idea that I shared with some of your authors and I was not involved I was a little upset about that but and I really want the idea to move forward and as a disclosure for the IP and so we applied for a PR before we discuss the idea to you as usual because we want to protect the idea and make sure that everybody can actually work on that since IP is becoming a little problem especially with standard bodies so there I we published a PR disclosure and royalty-free weather support city in the slides that I don\u0027t know probably not going to be able to see that for my presentation but there\u0027s the link to the IPR declaration so if you want to take a look at that it\u0027s all there yeah my comes with and Trust data card Mike Mike Ellsworth and Trust data card hello yes I\u0027m the primary editor on this draft so max we had we showed to you in August I think we just cross because we wanted to get involved in what you were writing but then we didn\u0027t get involved in your group so yeah I would love to be involved with you I think we can should really merge I think it\u0027s I think we sort of developed the idea independently maybe your language came in yeah I would love to be involved here that wasn\u0027t meant to be a slight we had tried to reach out in August that just didn\u0027t work as for IP I think we\u0027re all on the same board we want this to be completely free open public yeah we\u0027re not yes this is great let\u0027s let\u0027s get together okay I think we\u0027ll wait for a merge draft before we do a call for adoption thank you next is Hendrick and we\u0027re we\u0027re down to five minutes or I\u0027m doubting we\u0027re gonna get both presentations in okay welcome everybody I will hurry up with my slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "so I\u0027m going to present a work we did at Siemens on a profiling CMP for industrial use cases next slide so currently CMP is quite in practical use for for a number of years so on the one hand see a vendors use it for our a to see a communication and also in the mobile network backbone CMP is in use for over 10 years now and in the train control environment CMP is also used for certificate management and therefore the next slide please and we see quite a lot of features in CMP too much features then then I used to need it really but we see quite a lot of features that are yeah very good in industrial machine to machine environments like self-contained messages support for end-to-end security over a number of hops or out of bantam transport mechanisms or very small polling messages and invent conformation and things things like that and that\u0027s why we yeah see that is quite quite good use for for industrial use cases yeah these are the the typical use cases everyone knows like initialize update revoke but also some some further use cases that that may be implemented with CMP but what may be more important and CMP is quite easily extendable with a general message concept so if someone for example wants to transport an 83 66 voucher then this can be easily implemented with a general message from our experience from our company we see not only the mobile network and rail communication amuse cases but we also see use cases for example in the charging environment there is a protocol called CPP open charge point protocol that is from the standardization body used to be the only protocol the charge point is using and CMP as it is self-contained can easily be transported using the container messages from OC PP but also for rolling stock equipment which is not has not always connectivity to back-end this self-contained messages can be transported in a store and forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:01",
    "text": "mechanism so we see quite quite a number of use cases in the back up of the slides there is a bit more details to these use cases so for everyone who is interested in looking that up and driving you\u0027re welcome the slides are online okay so profiling from our point of view is essential a tool to get to see MPs of quite power feature-rich CMP stripped down to the needed functionality so that it is easy to implement and interoperability is possible but we not only see the end entity to PKI communications that is typically addressed in certificate management protocols but especially in industrial environments we see engineering tooling management to its asset inventory monitor systems network access control so we think also the lab between the LRA our ACA would be good to to do some standardization work on that part because we see in the future more and more interoperable needs of multi vendor environments there too and CMP offers from our point of view the needed functionality but it needs to be specified in more detail ok yeah so what what is to be done this is an example may be a formatting is a bit broken but this this would be an example how this such initial enrollment could work so this is similar what is also implemented in the 5g network and etcs so the end entity signing the request forwarded it to LRA or RA one of them doing the authorization on the request and attaching its are a signature and forwarding it to the CA and then the CA can verify not only the proof of possession but also the authorization of the RA and issues a certificate and return the certificate back transparently through the hops to the end entity and we have a confirmation message exchange where the messages are really small to ensure that the enrollment worked properly so this can be exchanged but not necessarily needs to be exchanged this can also be skipped if needed yeah so what is our our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "request or question what this work be interesting to to the working group as updating let\u0027s say CMP RFC with some more concrete profiling on industrial use cases and of course we are happy to get use cases learn about use cases from from other companies to see whether they are covered in in the current draft or figure out how they could be addressed with transactions so I\u0027m welcome to get get feedback whatever you have so this is currently not in the Charter and this is work that if people are interested in we\u0027d have to recharter to do so I like to hear whether people support this or not and max Monica believes we actually have some news cases in the medical industry and some other parts that actually are struggling with coming up with a profile for CMP that they understand I think that this work can be really important for those environments so I would support this and the other other use case that I have is a presentation that we gave in the email working group about provisioning credentials through EEP and simpie is one of the use cases that we would like to support okay Thank You max hi Scott Turner I think I sent some of this to the mailing list already there\u0027s other groups that are in the ITF like ace they\u0027re looking at exactly this thing for industrial control stuff for IOT type devices so it seems like if we adopt this we\u0027re stepping on toes you\u0027re gonna have to do some kind of coordination to figure out who\u0027s gonna do what to whom it would be weird I mean the P key I can be screwed up and had CMP CMC blah blah blah blah right so we can pick one so as an infrastructure people I supports are like I gotta do four things right to get certs in and that\u0027s not great we maybe should try to not burden the industrial control world with the same problems at the web hat so it\u0027d be good to see if we could get some kind of coordination to figure out what ones to use okay thank you okay so at this point we\u0027re going to continue discuss it on the list we\u0027re already run over our town by six minutes so max I\u0027m sorry you\u0027re not gonna get to talk really fast so thank you very much enjoy your lunch and let\u0027s continue this discussion on the list and max talk about your draft on the list please "
  }
]