[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "actually it's worth telling people that if you can have Firefox or Chrome it behaves much nicer than Safari I'm in Chrome I find crime a better extension forward special extension um yeah I was thinking as well obviously moving to meet Echo although there's a bit of a pain the first time using it for those that haven't been to an ITF before it's good practice figuring out all the nooks and crannies there's a few people uh we'll give them a few minutes I think because some people might not have used me Echo before so it can be an interesting Journey hello hello hi hi this is a Chinese daughter I wanted to follow your walk now I did some some work about lptcp and MP quick so I wanted to learn about this in your group fantastic now could you please tell me uh when will the next Committee in our group you know it's deep life in China so I went I wanted to make my schedule for the next meeting in our group okay they're also available on the data tracker we are we do have a session a working group session at the ietf 116 in Japan at the end of the month as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "okay thank you now I will uh I will sample support karate the email list after that I will get the email from you right are you not subscribed currently yeah yeah this is my first time okay thank you son what's the topic tonight uh so today is a standard workers Obsession or an interim session I should say so uh we'll go through the agenda in a moment when everyone's had a chance to log in it was made available on data check I don't know if you've had a chance to see it um probably will be a recap from the last month of the authors that have spent time talking to each other and making any kind of um advancements to the documents um and preparation for the working group um next Friday not the following Friday the 20th the 31st I think we're on Friday the 31st thank you no worries we'll give people until five pass to get a chance to log log on this is a new um way of us meeting we've been meeting by Zoom before so just give people a chance to get logged in and set up and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "then we'll start thank you clear this is going to be recorded sorry say again is this going to be recorded yeah it's recorded yeah it will be uploaded to the um data tracker website I can send a link around at the end of the meeting if that's easy okay I think that's given everyone enough time so um this is our first official interim meeting so welcome everybody um thank you for those attending nice hello we might have lost clear most clearly yeah and Thomas you are going to make a presentation weren't you uh yes I I have a just a quick like slide on um the changes on the architecture draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "so so Claire is offline okay we could we can wait yeah I know I requested also some time if if this is of interest for this they do zero then I think it's on the agenda at the end it says all the discussion which which is we've been talking about context ID and session we need to talk about this because sorry I'm a bit lost so where where should I oh it's an agenda Link in the invite yeah there's like three links so Thomas what is the are we going to discuss the uh specific plan for the two hour session on 31st I I I hope so um uh yes I think I think that's part of the thing is is um you know who who's gonna you know present at the ITF in Yokohama and and for how long I think I think we have the venue for like two hours 6 a.m my time yeah we need uh we need to uh maybe look at a flip-flop uh time zone I know other groups I think hyperledger does that right that um there's the sort of U.S europe-centric one and then there's the asia-centric one so at least everybody gets one chance to uh listen at night join at night yeah that's uh usually for any project we have a yeah the three different times and every week you get a different time and hopefully people who want to join a call in that zone can listen in so so they didn't miss anything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "okay so yes go ahead no please go ahead I don't know this is by the way this is normal every time there's a meat Echo and and it's even more complicated if the chairs are in the room physically in the room and a whole bunch of people are like a whole you know remote is like okay there's always like technical issues so this is this is normal I think I hope I hope bro you know Claire comes back soon it's okay so for the uh 31st meeting I I guess uh there will be three presentations right one on each of the drafts that are currently listed in charter yes and I've asked um the chairs that if we have extra time I'm happy to like you know given like overview of the whole thing like for 20 minutes because they might be you know uh some people you know particularly in Japan who are new to this so just having you know what is this about you know just basically the old slides that we've been presenting for the you know the last two Buffs and before that okay that makes sense and uh will you have time for anything else apart from that like uh yeah yeah so this is what we have to ask someone how much time is left and then you know if you have ideas and thoughts I think yeah okay and you know in other working groups I do know that I mean if you have you know if it is like you know 10 minute slot then somebody might present on just you know a rough sketch of an idea just to get um immediate feedback like you know is this is like good idea bad idea like you know uh you know go go to the pub you know kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "yeah but but then folks uh I I actually tried joining using Safari and it just wouldn't allow my audio through so I think I have been told that Firefox or Chrome on a Mac works better for um meet Echo yeah I'm using Firefox well for me foreign so it's enough to register just for that one day right we have that option yes just a matter of Interest how many people here are going to be there in Yokohama in person I guess it's just me I think I think Claire is you know she can confirm but I thought she was thinking of going this will be there too right I think so yes please yeah so for the for the new person it is Young there is a mailing list and um we have been meeting um I think bi-weekly but there are at least three or four meetings hello I'm I'm very glad to join this group and this is my first time to enter this meeting so I want to know the topic of tonight and it's a deep Night in China yeah I know we we will we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "have to fix that we have to like do the flip-flop thing because it's also a night in India right it's like 8 P.M or 9 P.M okay yeah it's very close to China yeah yes are you on the mailing list Jian said the sad mailing list yeah yeah you know uh I can't speak English and the Japanese and in Chinese yeah yeah yes I can speak uh Siri language and uh I did some work about mptcp and MP quick yeah I I want to also create a draft uh ITF and I'm a new learner huh yeah yeah I'm also a doctor's student China yeah well welcome welcome to the group thank you thank you do we have Claire back again Claire we can see you um on the thingy but we we can't see your video or audio uh okay okay okay I wanted to open my camera oh no no it's okay clear clear the chair the chair of the meeting enough no it's okay no no worries you're good you're good okay thanks thank you okay to be online"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "oh she dropped the comment in chat comes since you should be starting your proceedings if you click on the chat you see press messages where is the chat box chat is on top of the list next to the participant number of participants oh oh there you go okay so so should I should I just start should I just okay so folks uh welcome G this is deja vu happy have we not been here before uh but using a different tool um so I think the first thing is to um show the um slides or is it the the note well slide let me let me try presentation View and for the last minute on how to do that how do I actually how to actually present anything um see the menu on the top it's on the leftmost option there but how do I actually choose my PDF oh yeah who actually show anything presentation View and then see if you get an option oh you asked to share slides okay let me just go back sorry guys this is still uh okay uh oh dear okay so I'm not I'm not um I'm not logged in this um I'm not logged in as the um chair so I I have to have to request um sharing with you but you know what uh you guys know what the ITF um uh notebook slide are but so let me let me get going I think the first item that um Claire had on the agenda was this um the the uh updates so let me describe uh the updates done to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "architecture document so the big thing is that now both the architecture document and the SAT core document matches the color version 16 of our nice color flow diagram except for the messages going out from the Gateway into the network right so so it's just it's just the inside Lane that's being recorded captured in the architecture and in the um uh core sapi core protocol document um that's that's the first thing so no surprises there's this is it that me me catching up the documents to to the to the you know flow diagram the second thing is that in the architecture I've added a terminology there um context ID and session ID which we can this this is the topic of discussion today is like is that one ID is it is it well one has to be connected to the other how do we do that if there's two IDs and so on but I've put it into the terminology section of the architecture document with the expectation that that it will be copied out and moved route into our um a separate document I believe we want to do some kind of a glossary glossary document what do we call it um terminology document is what was um where's called it so so it's there uh it's you know I think the last two uh entries in the terminology it's not alphabetical I keep adding the end of the terminology section of the architecture document um and then thirdly sorry argument published somewhere uh no no no but but I think Wes was suggesting that that we as a group have a separate draft on terminology I think it was on the mailing list and I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "think that the hint I think they're looking for uh some somebody to edit this to to compile it and edit it so if you have any spare Cycles um uh and you're not you're not writing drafts yeah yeah but I think some of us uh volunteered I think you did Dennis did I did so yeah yeah okay so so maybe maybe we could just uh compile everything you know um in one like Word document or one draft and then we just go through and say is this is this do we like what it says there you know like for example the word like the term blockchain we don't have to like Define that just literally copy whatever somebody else says like the nist document it's it's got its own glossary at the end you know um so we don't have to like reinvent criminologies if it's already there particularly if it already comes from nist which means it's um you know people have seen it before and sort of have you know uh was it capture captured it sort of mentally um probably the the third thing or the fourth day the third thing is that in the core document now um every flow you know previously did not do this every floor now has a session ID right which is interesting that that um I guess we we kind of I I did I kind of did not add that so now literally every if you look at the the latest version from two days ago uh anything coming from the client Gateway One to Gateway two to the server has um a session ID which is independent of uh there's a thing called the counter so the idea here is that the the client and the server has has their own the Gateway has their own local way of tracking I think we just called it the counter value but the session ID"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Remains the Same for the beginning of the session and so the session ID in stage zero or stage one identifies the asset to be transferred so that we don't have to repeat what asset has to be transferred within each message and we could do a hash of course but but you know what I mean so The Binding between you know you know I want to move this you know uh tokenized asset uh bound on this session ID occurs in stage zero and if you look at it in fact the um the flow doesn't really have any asset being being moved it's just it's just literally an agreement flow that proceeds and then fourthly which I think is on my slide which I can't show is that we may need to define the lock assertion uh uh you know Json in such a way that there's an optional Network specific or vendor specific body right because right now if it's just an assertion it's just that yes I did this literally and that's just a one-liner but but what if there's you know like um and this is probably relevant for uh for urama if you actually want to carry some strange cryptographic proof that's unique to the origin network but which G2 is able to parse and understand great that's an optional extension and it's going to just be a blob in the at the bottom of the lock assertion message so that's that's kind of uh the idea sure uh the question on the session ID so uh who um who determines it in Phase zero yeah so back again so so I'm you know I'm in confidence every time I talk about this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "outside the ITF it's this three times now I've been asked well like who's gonna use this how do we use this and I kind of hand wave and say like well there's an application that's going to drive this and then next week as well how does the application know which instance you know is it referring to and this is why we ended up having you know so-called context ID and session ID but I think if you look my email this morning um Rama I think the idea is that the context ID needs to be it's out of band right it's it's state zero or phase zero of the of the handshake between the application application and um and um okay so Dex ready uh how do I actually choose a deck to be shared okay that's all right uh I don't know how to do I drag it there uh give me your answer maybe I should maybe whilst you're doing that Thomas who nominated themselves as the note taker we got someone um assigned to that don't think anybody did um if we could make sure we have a note taker as this is an official um interim meeting we do need to make sure notes are being taken and shared properly with the date and uploaded on data tracker and so before we go any further can we have a note taker please okay yeah I've taken notes many times I'll go ahead and take a note 10 take notes Here thank you that's very kind hopefully that's given Thomas enough time to to do the slides uh uh it seems um how do I actually load"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "up the slides boost I just dragged it and Firefox just crashed oh brilliant um if you go to meeting material oh you might it may be that you have to upload slides before the meeting yeah okay that's okay yes you can go if you go to the settings at the top of the screen the little tool set next to the exit button I'm not gonna attach Firefox again Claire because it's just no okay so it's in the screen that you're looking if you go to manage slide you should be able to upload them from there is anything materials yeah no so all the way across so you've got the leave the room button right in the very very uh right yeah and then one thing that you should settings yeah and then you should have manage slides in there oh this is the change devices that's local speakers uh I've got money slides so it's allowing me to upload them from here yeah it's a chair only yeah okay that's all right I've been I've been describing it I mean literally that's what this slides just say and so if you look at um figure two and three in the architecture document you'll see that should you know it's it's almost maybe you share the screen uh instead of upload share the slides if you share a screen maybe you can be able to show something okay I've asked uh Claire to share the screen yep I can grant that yes okay so you you guys can see how much I lost in svb that was a joke"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "yeah yeah okay um guys that are authors will you make sure so uh Rama and Thomas um and whoever I think Alex and Dennis are co-authoring the terminology document and we have the final draft over to either me or where's ideally the Wednesday before our session on the Friday just so we can make sure they are available ready for the working group so we avoid this on Friday the 31st uh you know what yeah I'm not gonna try sharing my screen because it just flickered oh my bad so listen to everyone send your your PDF to the chairs before the meeting yeah next time yeah make sure it's uploaded yeah so that's good no sir I was just saying uh responding to Claire uh Dennis had a suggestion that we can coordinate on the terminology document on GitHub it should be a coordination um but we do need to make sure there is one or two authors who are the ones that edit it based on everyone's submission so um it should be a collaboration as with all our documents but we do need to as with again with as all documents someone needs to own the editing and making sure the changes are committed in line with the the group's agreement um and I know Dennis and Alex have both volunteered on that and so I'm happy for them to to be in control of the document with other people's suggestions so long as we're obviously in Fair other legal suggestions and it is um taking the the voice of the group and the consensus of the group sure so Alex do you want to coordinate offline about that yeah we'll do okay Claire I just sent you my PDF my my bed just in case uh but but um I was going to ask if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "um Dennis if you have any slides of or images you you maybe you should send it to Claire yes I I just sent send them also okay uh so so folks that's kind of the end of of my sort of presentation it's just basically reporting that and the fact that we have to talk about um the session ID and context ID and you know is it the same thing or is the session ID derived from you know context ID uh and so yeah happy happy to have that discussion yes one question Thomas here um the way that I understand the the session is that it defines a unique transaction between two gateways right yes the session is so it's it's the Gateway is handling 100 sessions independently each one regardless of who the app is will be unique yes so so it's it's a it's an instance of transfer between two gateways for a specific set of assets that are predefined I mean that they are defined for this that's right so yeah one suggestion in the in the mailing list was I mean I sent it was that if we Define the context it would include the session ID inside maybe there are other things yeah so in fact the question is is that the session ID is included in the context idea which one gets created first because I thought the apps were supposed to talk first and then you know agree on a 256 you know bit string or something if we follow the distributed transaction processing Paradigm that existed back in the 90s I'm just uploading it there is a con there is a context that was for Global transactions among different sources and in there we could define various things and potentially we could use this because when we initiate a transfer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "this whole context about which gateways I mean you know all the eventually things the networks and the session could be part of one thing so it could be a composite thing it could be even a you know like a small Json something that is the context that contains also the the session ID um yeah because because this question is is if if Network one uses uses either some bft variant you know to choose to elect the Gateway the Gateway would not have known anything about this until it gets elected and then the and somehow the app one needs to now talk to Gateway One and say hey here's my context that's the simplest model yeah that's where the the line between what we um communicate what we negotiate in stage zero might have an impact on what would be the things that we transfer as part of the the unique session the instance of the transfer including the session ID so maybe there is a chicken in the egg thing if we don't discuss you know stage zero maybe I mean we are yes I'd rather Underside yeah avoid the chicken and egg problem that's right yeah okay so sorry excuse me um uh Dennis did you want me to share the process you've just sent me yes if you want so bear with me yeah in my whole email so just check your eyes for a minute it's also the first time that we do this mythical thing so we have to organize ourselves differently"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "let me just yeah double click on that yeah I know it's it's yeah I'm trying to stop that from happening yeah okay it is concates um especially on um hotspotic on personal signal it's fun um am I sharing anything right now it just says it's being started it takes a while for nothing yeah it's a bit of a warm-up situation isn't it in a minute I've got are you seeing the right screen now no I still see the screen share is being started we should be seeing the right screen in a moment I made this request to share my screen in case that I can directly go over everything else see if you have any better luck yeah it's not about choosing screen or not it's a just says it's just starting yeah I think the consuming office today and um you know as as with the Demi Gods apparently the first trial of a new system yes thank you okay so I cannot see you but okay you see you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "see the yeah yes go ahead Dennis all right so the thing that I'm I'm trying to capture here is the okay you're seeing the gray down in the bottom here sat p is the thing is the the sequence diagram that Thomas has version 2 500 I don't know what version number you have Thomas now in the your sequence diagram this is the gray box down here 16 16 okay so the idea here is to see what we could do eventually in order to get to start the the software protocol so the idea is based on the fact that when you okay it could work from the the source to the the target but can also work from the target to the source but here I'm showing one case where uh client one wants to transfer something to a client uh two so Alice want to send something to Bob so they think the idea here is the following the client goes to the Gateway and say I would like to transfer something I mean set of assets so it receives back the context and the the transfer context is something that is identified by the Gateway think about something that could potentially be signed by the private key of the Gateway something so Gateway One can recognize that this transfer context belongs to to to to itself so the client can go to the uh to the system and uh to to the next uh yes between one between one and two does Gateway One check to see if the uh the asset is so so basically apologies um am I just just for clarity is this a potential flow is what you're showing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "then it's a potential flow if we assume that Gateway One is connected to a DLT yes when I say system here it includes I mean what we call Network because it could be Network could be also a centralized system but it's only because you yeah only because you said with the Gateway be signed by secret key which obviously not all networks would use a secret key process um I mean also just to clarify that this is outside of the scope of the satp so this is for context is this Dennis correct so this is the negotiation before sat P starts sat p is down in the in Gray here okay down the bottom so this is all the stages we wanted to make sure that everyone was very clear that this is not what the satp is writing about or the documents this is staging just for those newcomers to the group so this is the the phase before starting a SAT the SAT flow again it's it's the gray box down here so it's everything that may eventually happen before the idea is that the client goes to the Gateway and the Gateway gives back a context that when somebody sees it can recognize that it comes from the specific Gateway okay so it could be for example it could be signed with a private key that is owned by the Gateway or any other mechanism but the thing is that this transfer context belongs to Gateway One so when the context is received by the client then the client can go to the network so again systems here are networks dlts or could be other systems and it binds the assets to the specific transfer context which means that I'm saying that I have you know this specific for example token that I would like to transfer to client two and then education can I yeah can I take a quick question uh what What's the format of the context is it application"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "specific or so that's it as well so some part of the context should be standardized for example to my view it might contain the session ID for example what we see a session ID could be part of the context so I initiate a transfer and as the Gateway which is connected to the client that initiates this transfer I create a session ID which should be unique you know across all transfers so if I have that as a client they can go to the network and I can bind the asset for the to this specific transaction context so I say I will I have this token that I would like to transfer to client to so the network yes uh as Thomas mentioned earlier that the session ID is supposed to uniquely identify a given asset that's small for transfer no the session ID uniquely identifies the instance of the transfer not the asset oh okay if we see if we see the local session for example we're having the Gateway definition we have a bunch of assets that are locked by the DLT and there is also somewhere if I remember the results also session ID somewhere there so what uh what it's proposed here is to have a transfer ID that refers to the context the context could be a Json file for example with many things including the session ID so does the transfer context uh tell the system in step three that there is a gateway available to carry out the transfer correct and I would like to bind this specific for example say you have a token to transfer a non-fungible talking to transfer um this asset"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "is bound to this specific transfer context so when later on inside satp the Gateway goes to the network and say I would like to lock it it will pass the transfer context so the system would know that it comes from the Gateway and is consistent with the initial step here that's also um is you know answering to your comment about the optimistic locking you could have many clients that are binding the asset but there is one I mean one Gateway that will do the transfer at the end there is nothing preventing uh clients to bind assets to transfer contacts it doesn't mean that uh you know the the first gateway the first transaction context will transfer it could be optimistic could be the one that comes first or whatever condition okay so does it transfer contact expire in a passive manner like some of them may not succeed right maybe this could be yes it could be anything that the network can understand for instance I mean if we take the distributed transaction processing the the network the DLT can intentionally pull out from the transfer at any moment they don't have to you know continue and it could be a roll back then in that case but that's not something that we as a group are trying to solve or is it it's it's a I mean all the things that I'm discussing here are conditions for all back inside the SAT so I'm not discussing about the specific conditions for rolling back but I'm saying that here there is a binding of a specific asset to a context so let me go through that in two minutes and then we can have the discussion just for you to have all the the flow and see if it makes sense or not so if I have uh the the context I'm in number four I will go to the client as Alice I go to Bob and say okay this is what I would I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "would like to initiate and transfer to you so I'm passing you a context the context then from the client to in uh okay and then I can I can say you can begin the transfer I can I can go as five as Alice to my Gateway and say you can begin the transfer whenever you want so what would be that moment when Bob receives the context it goes to the local system and say there will be a transfer that is going to happen for the moment I mean this might be also something that we that doesn't make uh I mean there is no effect on the DLT because there is no uh asset yet in the DLT the important thing is is number seven is when the Bob goes to its Gateway and say I have a context that comes from a remote application that I'm passing to you and because the transfer context contains information about the Gateway the Gateway 2 will go back to Gateway One and say okay I am the other party and I'm giving you back the context that you have uh created there is a typo here uh also it's a it's a transfer it's not a transaction context in eight so as a Gateway 2 I'm connecting with you Gateway One and I'm giving you the the context that you have created so you could recognize that this comes from you so we have the two gateways connected and since we have these two gateways connected Gateway One can then initiate sat so sat happens and at the end we can have also the client that goes back to the Gateway and say what happened what is the completion of sat is it commit is it rolled back so I can understand at the application Level what happened"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "this is 9 and 10. Parts leading up to um sorry for that so Dennis one question I had on the number four is here we're assuming the client apps are different entities right and Alice is trying to send an asset to Bob but for all intents and purposes it could be Alice trying to transfer an asset to themselves on another Network so um you know a lot of this stuff is very very volatile you mean I mean you should know the end the other the the other end you should know that there is a bob on the other side even if it is Alice on a different network isn't it but I mean you know if Alice just wanted to transfer an asset on her own account you know all of this would change there will be the need for step four here because they're you know aware what they're trying to transfer and what they're trying to do the thing is that in the remote in the remote side there might be four that goes directly to Gateway 2 for example if this is the case or but the thing is that on the other side on the other end okay there might be shortcut if client one I mean Alice is Alice on the other side but if you take it in the generality of what we are trying to do here is that we are having two parties that they would like to transfer an asset so it seems to me that there should be a explicit communication from the sender to the receiver yes and we we have assumed as part as part of the satp we have assumed that client one and client two person one person to system one system two have had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "a method of communicating with each other um I just don't want us to be spending too much time as a working group um two lost in the detail of what happens before the SAT is initiated as I feel like we so obviously the working group being authorized was where it was based around a very um a specific set of criteria that the SAT embodies and what we need to be focusing on is getting the SAT protocol all out and accepted as a working document and then once that's up and running and once that's that's gone through the process we can look at extend extending that and applying it to specific use cases and so there is not so much about extending it's more the fact that there are things that are not specified in the in the protocol for example we don't know how Gateway One and Gateway 2 are going to be somehow connected so there are some things that are still not necessarily 100 specified yeah I think is ogenous in terms of how Gateway One and Gateway to identify each other if I'm not mistaken yes if yeah if they're not not mistaken there is somewhere in the original architecture maybe it's no doubt not an SAT but in the early versions on what happens in the beginning so somehow the bootstrapping protocol of essay and bootstrapping part of the protocol should be defined so you know I'm very happy to to to write a draft on that I think I think what you have Rama do you mind waiting for Tennessee's comment and then coming back in is that okay sure thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "Oh Thomas oh sorry yeah as much as possible so just uh so Dennis in the in the sad core it's still there there is a type so there's three API types which is type one which is to go from the application to the Gateway but we never talk about that it's there in the diagram but not no text all we talk about is the type 2 which is the one that's supposed to be implemented by the two gateways back and forth but it's still there from the it's you know hasn't in fact I don't think we've deleted anything from odap I think we just added stuff towards the end of it so most of the texting all of the text is still there great yeah my turn the I guess so you are so uh so what I understood from uh the protocol preceding satp uh was it's kind of a recommendation but what It ultimately achieves is it it puts the appropriate state it puts the gateways in the appropriate state where they are ready to start on satp right correct so and and we can also Define the format of that data structure that they both are initialized with so I think to that achieve that we need to show that and I think what state they start off with that is part of the sap scope is that right Dennis yes I mean the there are a few things that okay we don't know how the binding between the gateways uh happens so we need to establish this and also we need somehow to communicate the um uh the transfer context okay to the um to the networks also so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "this communication between the the client the Gateway and the network somehow has to be established so that was this stage zero kind of flow that I I shown here is now the details of that I think uh were kept out of scope in the charter though the outcome of that is in the scope right I think if we make that fine line then we can uh probably satisfy player that yeah maybe we need a little bit of discussion on that because at least the end result of the protocol is uh part of the satp score and let's be clear it's not me we're trying to satisfy yes thinking about the way if you go to implement sat there are several unknowns there and so that's what what I was trying to capture is all the the steps that are necessary in order for SATs to you know to start when you say begin transfer there are a lot of magic things that are happening I mean Gateway knows about the network I mean the assets somehow are abandoned and are locked how all these things get somehow you know uh put all together so that's that's the the thinking behind it very quickly uh is uh Dennis are you happy uh if uh sapi core if odap starts with the assumption that there is already a session ID known between G1 and G2 and then that's the that's your that's your part yeah it's there somebody says how do you get there talk to Dennis yeah or a transfer context or a session I don't know but something that actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "defines the instance of the transfer somehow yeah I think we should focus on the assumptions and what stage zero means like what are the preconditions that should have happened at stage zero how does you know in that state look but not necessarily how you know the gateways or client applications get there it's just okay what are the hard requirements of information that needs to be available you know one Gateway or the other if you see the yes sorry I mean if you see it as a as a step as you know protocol steps this stage zero has some post conditions that are the preconditions of sat so instead of showing a flow we can State them I mean what is the the output the exit condition of the stage 0 or the prerequisites force sat to work yes I think that would meet the requirements of the document um from what I understand from what we need to try and deliver having that list having that listed out rather than as a process might be more appropriate at this stage yes excellent work did we lose Dennis what happened I don't know yeah I'm here um yes I I agree so fantastic it's good that we've got that agreement and that consensus that's exactly what these sessions are for is is to make sure that we've got the information and the the essential for the document so yeah what we can do is that we can use the mailing list so I can I can modify I mean describe the preconditions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "for sat or the post conditions of this stage zero and we can discuss uh you know among among us about about that that sounds perfect thank you so much for that Dennis thank you for volunteering yeah Dennis can you can you email your diagram to the mailing list yes yeah sure I will die all right PNG file a PDF file yeah thank you because I want to like look at it carefully Bob and if we're comfortable that we've covered off that topic as much as we can do today we've got five minutes left um in terms of the other agenda points that we had probably not got any time to come onto them so we can wrap that up in the mailing list that's fine um I did just want to do a last call out to the group um we have published our agenda now and but if there's any burning items to go onto the agenda we can still make edits to it um for the working group on Friday the 31st there's Thomas not for the ATS specific but uh uh I have I've been asked by a couple of people independently particularly people in Australia is it possible to have the interim group meetings flip-flopping time zones so that the people in Australia can try to dial in so and and also people from Pacific United States which I think it's okay but particularly people in Australia can dial in so one meeting current time zone the next meeting a different time zone yeah absolutely I can um if if those people are here let me know times or time that would work best and we can try and do a bit of a consensus if they're not here Thomas could you reach out to them um the people that have contacted you and I can do I I'll see what I can do to move things around a bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "oh okay will do thank you Rama uh yeah uh was there something you needed from uh me before the meeting uh yeah so any slides that you want to present um any documents that are being worked and I've spoken to the document authors separately um so Dennis yourself and Thomas if I could have those documents um the last draft ready by Wednesday the 29th I think it would be um that way we won't have the the situation we've had here in terms of trying to share it on the the meat Echo so you mean the vocabulary right yep so the vocabulary if we have we have Thomas has got a couple of documents that he's lead author on I'll speak to Martin separately is is I work with him um and Rama I know you've been working a bit more on the use cases so um the final vote or the most up-to-date version of that document um if we'd like to discuss them so we've we've assigned some time in the working group to the discussion of these documents is that's what we're here to do is get these documents out um just to set the scene a little bit for the guys that are the main authors it would be five minutes of an introduction of the topic and then open floor discussion so you don't need to do too much in terms of slides to present it would be more introducing and then um the open working group doing what they do best fabulous so with that said make sure everyone's got their tickets Friday uh 9 A.M Japan time we've got two hours we have um quite a bit to go through we've been fairly conservative with our time slots but know that if we do go over we'll still have enough time to get all the agenda covered so we're very excited about that um and like I said any last agenda"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "points reach out to me or where's or both of us um we have quite regular catch-ups ourselves so we can just make sure that goes on the agenda and we assign the Right Slots brilliant well thank you so much to Thomas for stepping in as we had a connectivity issues over here in in London um and I will see you all in Japan thank you so much thank you cheers guys bye thank you"
  }
]
