[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:37",
    "text": "so we get started in just a second and suppose these light cars arrive there in the room already so so good morning this is the home that working group if you\u0027re in the wrong room the rest of them are quite far away so you should probably start leaving now I\u0027m Steven Farrell this is Barbara your chairs easier slides okay we should play with this thing and make it do stuff yeah presentation about those well I took it out oh yeah so no yeah there\u0027s no well anyway okay no no well this is fun okay this is the agenda anybody want a lotta theater business wait don\u0027t well we did upset okay just two Buffington hmm that\u0027s just push here just keep pushing it - it works "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:42",
    "text": "and then push that as you\u0027ll around this one and then push to okay okay there\u0027s the agenda okay anybody want to agenda bash other lights come up you gotta wake up now okay so we the blue sheets are circulating we have no takers and jabber spreads thank you the note takers are working in the ether pad casing on the look in next is you should say thank you to Terry for being our esteemed ID welcome Eric and then we have basically one person tell you stack it here no so we have a couple of drafts pettalia may choose at some point to go to the mic and talk a bit and other than that it\u0027s the Ted show and then we want to discuss where we want to go from here because we tried to have this discussion on the list and the the the lack of activity was underwhelming so I think that\u0027s a challenge that we have to try and deal with but first time the 10:00 show so am I supposed to do a song and dance routine or yeah it would be OH when you had enough time to anything you know I haven\u0027t rehearsed sorry I go to talk alright so on the agenda it says simple naming and other stuff and I decided to call this work in progress because I think that that what we need to talk about is work in progress so there are a couple things that I\u0027ve been working on one is I you know that well at the last at the last ITF in Bangkok I presented a topic about marketing HomeNet like what what is the market and you know what is the market for things like home net routers right now and how does that compare to what we\u0027ve been doing here is there anything that we\u0027ve been doing here that would be useful on those routers is there anything we can learn from from what\u0027s actually succeeding in the market right now and so I wrote up a document that actually talks about that problem and in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:43",
    "text": "quite a bit of detail and tries to systematically compare what\u0027s available on various multi router home networks to what we\u0027ve done and so I the document is draft lemon HomeNet review I couldn\u0027t really come up with a good title I didn\u0027t want to call it home net marketing document because I figured nobody would read it but but it\u0027s basically a market analysis and I think it\u0027s pretty important because there\u0027s no point in us doing this work if there\u0027s no market for it right doesn\u0027t have to be a huge market but but somebody ought to be benefiting from this or else we\u0027re just kind of standing around wasting our time so I\u0027d really appreciate if people could take a look at that document critique it suggest things to add to it and at some point we should probably even consider drawing some conclusions from it I\u0027m not going to present the document in detail here because I already did that in bankok so so you know where to find it is anybody missed anybody actually seen it already okay sorry about that I should have actually asked the chairs to put it on the agenda by name so anyway so so please take a look at that and let\u0027s discuss it on the mailing list I think there\u0027s some good stuff to discuss in there so hopefully that\u0027s hopefully that will generate some discussion the next thing that I want to talk about is home net and open wrt let me just go back to my sub agenda oh yeah right okay yeah so I haven\u0027t done any work on the simple naming document since the last IETF because I\u0027ve spent all of my time working on the stuff that we need to implement simple naming instead seemed like a good trade off so so what I did for for today\u0027s presentation was to just go through the simple naming document and see like you know where are we what do we have and you know what do we still need to do and this was actually really instructive I think as a result of doing that I have quite a few changes that I\u0027ll be making to the document which I think will improve it substantially and make it a lot easier for people to read it and review it so it was all good so I\u0027m just gonna go through all the sort of headings of the document talk about what what\u0027s in there so the document talks about the various different things that the home that needs to provide needs to provide a name for the network we have home dot art but we can use it that\u0027s done it needs to provide authorities service so authorities service means being able to look being able to do a DNS query for stuff that\u0027s in home darpa and get authoritative answers for the most part H NCP has the information we need there are a few things that need to be enhanced about how H NCP derives that information but for the most part it\u0027s there but we don\u0027t have a way to extract that information from the H NCP\u0027s state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:44",
    "text": "and put it into an authoritative DNS server and I don\u0027t think we want to make H NCP itself be an authoritative server we could do that but that just doesn\u0027t seem like the right solution to me so that\u0027s that\u0027s a bit we have to figure that out I mean whether whether the way we do it is we just on the two things together or extract the data yeah Julia scrub which I quite does it not feel like the right thing uh by using HS oh yes yes I\u0027m one of those people who really regrets that have been to installed system is set up youths adopted system D and I feel like H NCP DS the HNC PD implementations that we currently have tend to go down the system D rathole and that\u0027s a design choice that I don\u0027t personally like I\u0027m not saying that the working group should agree with me but that\u0027s just my own personal opinion so so indeed one of the ways we could solve this problem and it might be the most expedient way would be to just you know banda dns listener on to h NCPD and that would work so yeah and the other way around the other way would be to have agent DNS server participate in the agency P protocol does that feel better well that would be the same thing yeah essentially but the feeling would be different one of the problems that I have with HNC PD is that is that all of the things that it knows are contained within it and so actually seeing what it knows is not easy and so so basically what I\u0027m talking about is that I would like to be able to to have that I like to be able to have something that\u0027s sort of equivalent to you boss or d-bus for talking to HN CPD and getting the information that it has and if we had that then that could be used to populate the authoritative server so we would only dizzy are battling about the implementation or about the protocol the implementation is adamant about the implementation this is all about implementation this is not about like the protocol has available yeah no it\u0027s yeah it really is a matter of taste like like I\u0027m not saying it the way that it\u0027s currently implemented is wrong I\u0027m just saying this is not to my taste so so we can fake up Authority for a single broader use case and a lot of a lot of the stuff we can do for a single router use case which is not super interesting except that it allows us to at least see that the stuff that we\u0027re doing actually would work on a link if so trying to figure out what this is on the slide all right yeah so one of the things that that we need to be able to do is choose an authoritative server if there\u0027s an authoritative server and there needs to be a primary and that is to say if there\u0027s a stateful authoritative server then there needs to be a primary if it\u0027s all stateless then we don\u0027t really care we\u0027re just getting the information out of H n CP every router will have it they can all be authoritative for the same zone we don\u0027t care if there\u0027s state then we need the state to be in a particular place so if we\u0027re gonna do that then we don\u0027t currently have support for electing a stateful router NH NCP I don\u0027t anticipate that being difficult "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:45",
    "text": "but we need to do it and then for the stateless case we need to actually we\u0027re missing some of the stuff that we need to name the the purling subdomains that we would delegate so reachability this is the ability to query things on the home net from outside of the home net simple naming doesn\u0027t specify way to do that so we have full support for this feature at this time link naming so there I came up with a way to name links that I think is sort of human readable and and it\u0027s described in the simple naming architecture basically it takes the name of the router and the name of the links on the router and if there are two routers with the same name it gives one of them a different number than the other and that lets the user sort of see a name that maybe they could figure out what it\u0027s referring to if they can\u0027t it\u0027s not the end of the world but it\u0027s better than just like you know hex vomit as Stewart likes to call it so that needs to be added to H NCP again it\u0027s it\u0027s exactly the kind of thing that H NCP knows how to do so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s hard but we haven\u0027t done it so and of course we can fake this up for the single link as I was saying previously but yeah there\u0027s a lot of new work to do here we need link names because we need to list the browsing domains we need to list the registration domain so if you want to do service discovery you need to know where to do it and so we need to have a list of all of the domains in which a host on the home net needs to do queries in order to discover services throughout the home net similarly if the hosts or if a service is doing Service registration protocol it needs to know who to talk to to do that and thirdly we actually need delegations Russ gentle Mike hi Ted yeah Robin Wilton um to what extent does this depend on good behavior by the vendors because so for example if I if I look at the device names on my own normal home routers DHCP list some of them are ones that I\u0027ve been able to set some of the things are things like an HP printer that has HP at the beginning yep and some of them are badly behaved and don\u0027t really give me any indication of what they are yeah so does this impose requirements essentially on vendors for good behavior it specifies what the correct behavior is and then whether the vendor follows it is up to them but certainly certainly I mean one of the reasons I think that you know your HP printer is just hex vomit is because they don\u0027t have a better thing to do and so what I tried to do here was suggest a better thing to do so figurehead Daniel just do I think because we\u0027re so danyoung we go so I think because it\u0027s like if you\u0027re a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:45",
    "text": "router you plug it and you say well if it is not routing properly so we\u0027re because we have a lot of functions within the same box we expect it to have a different length so I mean this impacts of that implementation should be limited I guess yeah it\u0027s a it\u0027s a bundle of functions so I guess that\u0027s so per link Authority again just going down the subheadings in the in the document requires that that we choose a dns SD proxy for each link so remember home routers are talking to each other over shared links which means that for many of the links in the home net there will be more than one router that could act as the DNS is d proxy and at present we don\u0027t actually have a way to decide which one of those two routers are three however many it is is actually going to do DNS SD server service on the shared link so we need to add that to H NCP that\u0027s not done or even specified yet we need the authoritative server or servers to delegate to each link zone so if if H NCP knows which which router is going to do service for which link and we\u0027re doing stateless authoritative service then we would actually have all the information we needed at that point to set it up but if we\u0027re doing stateful authoritative service but we still have all the information but we need to extract that out of H NCP and put it in the authoritative server reverse mapping this is not hard but we haven\u0027t done anything of it none of this stuff is done it\u0027s not really that important because in order to in order for reverse mapping to work hosts need to do something special which zero hosts currently will be doing so this is not a high priority that\u0027s why I said not very import it\u0027s not very important for two reasons one it\u0027s not a high priority in two nothing\u0027s gonna break if it\u0027s not working probably we don\u0027t so name resolution so this is suppose I want to look up a name I go to port 53 with a query and what happens so the resolution for local names using the discovery proxy I\u0027ve implemented that it works it\u0027s great resolution for global names the current discovery proxy will also do recursive resolution so that works great there\u0027s a gap if so so in order to do name resolution the discovery proxy needs to know which servers to talk to we\u0027re getting that information right now using using free x delegation and we\u0027re sharing it I think we\u0027re sharing it in H "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:46",
    "text": "NCP so that information should be available but there\u0027s probably a missing step here to just stuff it somewhere so that so that so that the the discovery proxy will and an additional loose end so if we have a bunch of if we have a stateful authoritative server then all of the discovery proxies need to point to that when they\u0027re when they\u0027re resolving names that either they can\u0027t resolve themselves or that aren\u0027t external in other words that are that are subdomains of home darpa and so there\u0027s a little bit of glue that hasn\u0027t been written to do that it\u0027s not very hard but that needs to be written Ted yeah question on the previous slide and assuming all goes well at some point the discussion about DNS over HTTP would land somewhere and might impact on what should be done here is that correct I mean that\u0027s just a now you\u0027re just using a different court and a different transport right it\u0027s not there\u0027s nothing nothing none of the plumbing changes I think other than you might if this so so if this we\u0027re gonna do doe upstream then we would need different plumbing upstream if it\u0027s gonna do doe downstream then we need different plumbing downstream but the actual wiring inside of the thing I don\u0027t think changes but but we\u0027re but just as everybody else if the if a client the host is doing toe and that causes issue somewhere those same issues will arise here right so so I mean one of the one of the issues with with doe or with anything where you\u0027re tunneling DNS is that you need to have some kind of exception process or else you\u0027re gonna tunnel things that can\u0027t be answered by by an external resolver so yeah good point and I think that the document actually says that but you\u0027re right it and I didn\u0027t mention that here so that is another loose end that we should talk about or figure out it kind of falls into the the last bullet point there except that that it\u0027s on the it\u0027s something that a host would need to do and I I don\u0027t know like that\u0027s not really our bailiwick right like we can\u0027t tell people what to put in hosts no no and so I think I did the only find your sister they if this work kind of finishes and then we don\u0027t want to not take account of whatever other people are doing right the nsh2 yes sir yeah yeah yeah I mean you know personally I would be very tempted to do to have my home net rod or do dot to some external service and then just use the name resolution on the local link when I\u0027m on that local link because you know I trust myself more to to set that up than I trust my random IOT device vendor but yeah so DNS push "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:46",
    "text": "so DNS push exists to give us feature parity with multicast DNS when doing service discovery over DNS with multicast DNS you send out a query and you get back answers as they come in and you retry and maybe you get more answers and so as answers come in the multi the EM DNS client will add and will add information to the user interface if there\u0027s a user interface or will potentially establish connections to new services or however it\u0027s using this information the point is that updates will come in as new information arrives with DNS typically you just do a query and you get a response and that\u0027s the end of it but which is actually not ideal like it actually causes problems in real operation so so we added the ability to just say hi I\u0027d like you to tell me whenever the meaning of this name changes and that\u0027s what DNS push doesn\u0027t so our discovery proxy does DNS push as a client sorry as a server and so if you have a client on the on the local wire that knows how to do DNS push it will do it bring those um you know that all these pieces are great but the question is is how do you make sure they all sort of come up automatically right because if the DNS discovery proxy stuff and the relay you got a configure stuff right the security associations and stuff like that so if you looked at that part you know how you might do that in this sort of more automated home that environment well so the things that I\u0027ve been talking about for example with eh NCP getting information out of H NCP to name the the links and stuff like that those all examples of what you\u0027re talking about basically we\u0027re relying very heavily on H NCP to pass that but that and how does that play with some of the trust stuff you put into like this stuff does it all play pretty well so you know cuz it\u0027s supposed to be using white TLS and and things like that right yeah so the answer is right now we don\u0027t actually we haven\u0027t actually solved that problem to do TLS if we have ipv6 in principle we can just go use Acme to get TLS certs and and I think I actually mentioned that in the document but yeah this is a somewhat hard problem yeah yeah and and it would be nice for example if browsers had a way to to use DNS DNS SEC to sign assert whether than using PKI maybe with different security properties but we don\u0027t have that yet far as I know I think it was attempted at one point and then Google pulled it so oh whoa round-robin hang so this is really technical trivial stuff but one of the things in the document specifies is that when you\u0027re doing DNS resolution if you have multiple servers you want to you know if one of them isn\u0027t working try the others and that\u0027s basically working because we\u0027re just in our implementation we\u0027re just using mdns responder to resolve queries and endianness responder already does that so that stuff\u0027s at least for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:47",
    "text": "purposes of having something running on open wrt that\u0027s done it\u0027s pretty simple provisioning domains so any of the PVD authors are in the room oh hi yeah of course because you\u0027re your now official or semi official so yeah so so we need the PVD are a option in order to do this we don\u0027t have it yet it\u0027s not it\u0027s not is it like close to last call or what\u0027s going on with that okay yeah so hopefully close to last call but not currently so so we\u0027re basically waiting on that and there would be there that\u0027s gonna require a fair amount of work to implement I haven\u0027t really looked into this too closely so this is one of the sort of big ish unknowns about about getting us working on that trouble check again could you perhaps describe how you envisioned that to work so one thing that I\u0027m worried about is that we\u0027ve done a lot of work in at the agency P at Babel levels to make sure that home networks well with multiple simultaneous ISPs and all the naming stuff is a little bit worrying because there are some unwritten assumptions and what you\u0027ve been presenting that there is only one is P so the PVD stuff I understand is your vision for making sure we can work well with not about correct me if I\u0027m wrong but they understand that\u0027s your vision for making sure it works fine with multiple ISPs and so perhaps if you could clarify a little bit yeah that that\u0027s a great question so so there are basically two approaches to handling multiple ISPs one of them is to use provisioning domains ideally we use provisioning domain it\u0027s like if a host supports provisioning domains we use it of course the number of hosts that currently supports the provisioning domain are a option to the best of my knowledge is zero so so we can\u0027t rely on that and so all we can really do we don\u0027t really have a way to to know how a host is gonna use the information that it gets out of DNS we do have some degree of trust that most modern hosts do happy eyeball style stuff so if a particular answer from DNS doesn\u0027t work with the source address that they choose they\u0027ll try a different source address and so essentially the way we solve this problem is by deliberately round-robin amongst provisioning domains if we don\u0027t have a tag on the happy ibises only the destination address of time month not mistake well write the source address is kind of random we don\u0027t have any control over source address selection so whatever the host does is what it does so all we can do is hope that just by trying a bunch of different things eventually the host chooses a combination of source address and destination that work we we we don\u0027t have a way to tell it what to do there I mean I guess it\u0027s possible we could use the DHCP source address selection stuff "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:49",
    "text": "but this is good we\u0027ve got a lot of my question so okay so could you go a little closer to the mic perhaps you\u0027ve misunderstood each other so what I\u0027m worried about so this the layer-3 stuff I\u0027m familiar with but I\u0027m would like to understand this what happens if you have multiple ISPs with multiple DNS servers right and of course you\u0027re telling them to not do to have global DNS only but of course the DNS servers are not equivalent because I speeds are what they are yeah so what happens if my home net is connected to two ISPs they have DNS servers how do my house how does the hell net merge the information from the multiple DNS servers right so what\u0027s gonna happen is that the hosts the when when a host does a query for for a particular name the answers will be will be attempted from different oh I I\u0027m sorry I I\u0027m a little unclear I can\u0027t remember exactly what I wrote in the document I had a great solution for this problem if I don\u0027t remember but I think that I think now that you\u0027re asking this question I think what I what we did is is set it up so that there would be more than one IP address that you could do queries from and and so the host round-robin inge would wind up round-robin in between ISPs rather than round-robin in between the actual district distinct DNS servers so so in other words you would you would try IP address number one and that would get you PVD number one and then you try IP address number two and that would give you PVD number two it and that way you would get more than one answer to the same query and so if one of them didn\u0027t work you get some from other ISPs so you\u0027re assuming that the host is actually than ground robin between the different DNS servers right if it\u0027s not which is not necessarily the case well I mean we don\u0027t really have a whole lot of control either way that I can think of to do this is to basically have the network do the connection for you and use NAT to to make that all happen under the covers and I think that\u0027s a terrible solution so yeah that\u0027s we can agree about I think we\u0027re in trouble here yeah no I mean this is a serious problem for sure Michael Abramson so I\u0027m speaking in v6 ops on Thursday and I\u0027m bringing up basically this problem and I hadn\u0027t thought about the DNS multiple DNS resolver angle and that\u0027s an additional problem this is not a solved problem right this is something that we need to work on and this is this is what myth was working on until myth was placed exactly and it\u0027s even more than myth was working on because we have this huge complication know it do H is coming along as well so it did I mean we already have the problem with a device for having many VPNs having multiple solvers and now all of a sudden you might even connect this VPN to your home router so the home router now has five different up links five different resolver sold begging mirror attention "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:50",
    "text": "to please use me and and we had we don\u0027t have a solution of this I mean at home I have I have five four different VMs running and each of these are sitting in a separate VPN partner of the problem is solve this problem by attaching the one by one because I don\u0027t have a PVD solution to to do what any so yeah this is something we should in which it doesn\u0027t necessarily need to be worked on here because I don\u0027t think homeless consultant but it needs to be worked on elsewhere so if someone I don\u0027t know should we write the v6 ops problem statement document on it or where should that work be done I don\u0027t know well yeah I mean I\u0027m reluctant to do anything in v6 ops because it\u0027s such a big working group and it takes on too much work so so I I\u0027m not really with that proposal although okay submarine it didn\u0027t there and nobody list is there it\u0027s the problem is lack of focus in both places I mean honestly I think we have more focus here except that this room is too small they\u0027re not of people showing up so I don\u0027t think that\u0027s good either I don\u0027t really know what the right solution I mean we could try doing a new v6 ops and then see what happens and if there\u0027s sufficient interest that we may want to to do a short-lived working group that just solves this problem Eric yeah everything about the PVD just clarification with I\u0027m pretty sure you know it anyway we\u0027ve DVD with zero implementation indios that\u0027s a bit part of it you get a complete bender of the address the next stop and the DNS resolver right so you will always ask the right I mean you can ask always the resolver with the right source address so it\u0027s sort of a lot of problem yeah but mostly you know it already one other way we can solve the problem by the way is so so if the host supports that then I think we have a we have a solution problem is that the host doesn\u0027t support that and so if the hose doesn\u0027t support that one thing we can do is we can arrange to only send one RA that that can be processed by a host that doesn\u0027t support PD DS and then all of the other ITR A\u0027s will only work if you support PV DS and then that one you basically wind up multi single home if you\u0027re if you\u0027re if you don\u0027t support PVD so that that\u0027s one way of solving the problem it\u0027s not ideal because then you don\u0027t get the benefit of multihoming but yeah and that\u0027s exactly what the PVD draw face thank you christian panca and i\u0027m wondering maybe i understood this wrong which machine would be doing the dns round robin so I was being a little bit hypothetical there and I\u0027m realizing that actually what I proposed what I wanted proposed in the document as a single RA as opposed to so so in other words the the host wouldn\u0027t be doing multiple provisioning domains unless it supports it with them and if it is supporting it then it\u0027s not round robin ik it\u0027s just like doing queries though the round robin would be happening inside of the resolver the local resolver on the home network yeah okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:51",
    "text": "that cost I just want to point out a 12-2 up in of the host usually performs pretty badly if there are resolves that don\u0027t work yeah yep okay good discussion I mean I and and also a very appropriate I think this is one of the one of the things that probably requires the most thinking right now Service registration protocol so this is basically DNS update with first-come first-serve naming requires there to be a stateful authoritative server so I have code that will take an SRP update their sort of specially formed updates validated and then in principle do a DNS update based on it but that\u0027s not actually done and I\u0027ve also been talking with Mark Andrews about maybe getting Service registration protocol into by 9:00 which would be very cool we could also do this in MV NS responder and just have the updates go into the cache but the bottom line is that we don\u0027t have code to do this right now we don\u0027t have working code do this right now we\u0027re not super far from that but we don\u0027t have it so that\u0027s work that needs to be done if we\u0027re gonna support SRP on the home node and I think it\u0027s worth supporting SRP on the home net from the beginning because if we don\u0027t then vendors aren\u0027t going to implement it you know why implement something if nothing is gonna hear it so as I said earlier writing the slide deck really helped me to find a lot of things that I need to change about the document in a very good way and I think that we have a kind of a punch list of things to to go through to get this working on open wrt it\u0027s certainly not fully formed yet as as the process continues I\u0027m sure we\u0027ll find new items to put on the punch list but I think that there is a path to actually getting this working and I\u0027d like to get it working David\u0027s in the room Dave Tate actually I was talking to him yesterday he threatened to help me with some of this so that would be great because right right now basically I I haven\u0027t been getting any any participation on this I\u0027ve been doing this all on my own apples been paying me very kindly to work on it which is great but one person doing this is it\u0027s gonna be slow so nevertheless I\u0027d really like to demo this in Montreal so we\u0027ll see how it goes my clear room sunny yeah I think it said last time if you if you can package it this up for open wrt all volunteer to test anyway in excellent thanks alright so then I wanted to talk a little bit about home net and IOT because I think that that this is an important problem I think being able to have if you have a home that\u0027s got a sophisticated network in it and your doing things like operating switches operating lights using switches over an IOT internet then having a good solid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:52",
    "text": "solution for how you make that work in a home that is larger than a single Wi-Fi router is important so and there\u0027s two things that I think are key to making this work one of them is making it making sure that that IOT devices are reachable by the by the other devices that need to reach them and by no other devices so and by the way when I say IOT there\u0027s there\u0027s two different kind of instances of IOT that I\u0027m talking about one is things like we Mo\u0027s that are connected to your Wi-Fi or you know homekit mostly uses Wi-Fi and so so there\u0027s you\u0027re not actually using constrained network and the devices are particularly constrained because they have power they\u0027re they\u0027re only the only sense in which they\u0027re constrained is that they have relatively small CPUs but for those of us that grew up programming Apple twos they actually are kind of big so nevertheless like you know all of my IOT devices are currently isolated on a separate link and even so they can at least they can still cross infect each other I\u0027d really like it if the devices if my i2 devices could only talk to the things that I want them to talk to I think that there\u0027s an opportunity to do some work there and I think that would be good it would be nice to take advantage of the work that the that\u0027s been done with mud and the big question that I have is is it possible particularly on a Wi-Fi network for a node to be isolated from another node that\u0027s on the same Wi-Fi network Julius Julius Krug Chuck why do you want them to be on the same SSID because Wi-Fi 300 IOT devices do you really want to have a hundred SS IDs no right I rock Leto I\u0027m with zero and pretty much all of these things for IOT we\u0027ve been working on as a prototype I guess you know about this No so if you the project is on github it\u0027s called secure a IOT home gateway oh okay this is the stuff that Michaels working yeah Michael and Elliot Lear and Sarah in Si DN and mark plowshare so there\u0027s there\u0027s a lot of us working on this and the goal is to build the prototype that it\u0027s based on mud so we have a func semi-functional mud controller where we can provision IOT device and assign access control to just control where it\u0027s supposed to go we also are addressing the Wi-Fi setup so that keys are unique by IOT device so they\u0027re not shareable and all that so and the goal is to have all of this open source in open wrt and so look it up it\u0027s in get up and that\u0027s it yeah it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:55",
    "text": "would be good to it would be good to liaison it on that Michaels already reached out to me and I think was it you reached out to me or somebody else in that group I think reached out to me about this so Amy okay Daniel I think the person that approached who was another person from another project okay I\u0027m Stuart Cheshire from Apple I\u0027m interested hearing about this I had not heard about this before that\u0027s partly why we come to these meetings to learn new things is this a working group is it an open source project so the documents describing this what where can I go to learn more about this okay that\u0027d be great thank you fabulous and then the other thing is last time in Bangkok we were talking about how to get how to route IOT networks in a home net and came up with this theory that maybe H NCP was a good way to do it since then so I showed up for the thing to thing routing our research group meeting on Friday and actually quiz some of the people there about this because I figured they would know and they did so six lo is actually working on a routing proposal which it\u0027s not really a routing proposal at all but nevertheless basically what they do is they have if you have a bunch of IOT networks and each one of them has a backbone router they they connect them all to a single Wi-Fi or wired link and basically just do proxy neighbor discovery and some information sharing between the the backbone routers so that they can all participate in a single IOT mesh and I think this would work I\u0027m not sure that the scalability is ideal and so I think it might be interesting to pursue whether there\u0027s an opportunity to use H NCP to make this work better if we just sit back and wait they will they will do their routing proposal and we\u0027ll find out whether it works so that\u0027s one option but it may be worth having more discussion about that anyway just throwing it out there Michael Abrams oh so is this for IOT devices that actually have an ipv6 address for the unique device or yeah okay yeah because a lot of these a lot of these things seems to have like a controller that is the only thing you\u0027re talking about and then it\u0027s it has stuff behind it but right so so that\u0027s actually kind of like a thing that some of the IOT vendors are trying to get away from because controllers suck you wind up with like a giant pile of controllers with one IOT device behind each one of them and that\u0027s really stupid so or maybe three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:55",
    "text": "IOT devices behind it so using you know general-purpose IP networking is a better approach but you know requires more interoperability work so so yeah I\u0027m talking about that use case the the the actual IP networking use case anyway just another question so they are their current work requires to be in the same layer to domain and they don\u0027t have like a tunneling automatic autonomy only to set up for well they don\u0027t actually need to be in the same layer to domain they\u0027re just doing it that way because it\u0027s easier but right I mean I can also imagine lots of technical ways to solve this but their current working hypothesis is that they are in this thing it is you\u0027ll do my yeah okay okay yeah I mean and maybe that\u0027s fine you know if you\u0027ve only got like a hundred devices on your home network and they\u0027re not talking much it\u0027s probably not a probably work of right so do we should I mean if we want to support that with multiple HomeNet with multiple routed everything then that we might need or when we were discussing doing that for Wi-Fi anyway so we might need to be able to extend a layer to domain across multiple home network routes yeah yeah i mean i i\u0027m curious about sigh i don\u0027t i don\u0027t have i don\u0027t really have the knowledge to say this is a good idea this is a bad bad idea i\u0027m just curious about it at this point i think there\u0027s some crossover steven yeah so just a question on this just compared to our current charter so this is all interesting good stuff but not currently in the Charter at the whole networking group it doesn\u0027t map to a document or does it do you think it does or what well though the homemade architecture actually talks about this issue I don\u0027t know if the document if the Charter talks about it specifically but it certainly is in the architecture so right I mean the architecture basically says you know there will be there will be constraint networks on the edge and we need to solve that we need to make that work okay okay yeah anyway so you have a next steps thing on the agenda I also put down my next steps this is just my pitch about what I what I want it\u0027s not necessarily what home that should do I want to see home that become real we\u0027ve been working at this for a long time we\u0027ve got some pretty cool stuff who\u0027d be nice to actually be able to demo it I really don\u0027t think that Linksys our hero or ubiquity or any of those big vendors is going to talk this anytime soon although if there\u0027s anybody here from those organizations that wants to talk please talk to me but we can definitely make this work in open wrt and I think if we do make it work in open wrt at this point we\u0027re seeing a lot of router\u0027s like I have a bunch of routers that are like just little things that I bring with me to EF that aren\u0027t super expensive and there\u0027s a company in China that makes them and they all run open wrt and so if open wrt have an easy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:57",
    "text": "way to configure routers to be home net routers that didn\u0027t that just worked then in principle that company could be shipping open wrt routers the next week and you know also there are companies like season ik makes the Taurus omnia and that\u0027s a kind of a high feature full router that could also be doing home net that would be really cool so if we could get some grassroots support for this and then also ISPs if there is peas that are interested in this we could potentially create a groundswell of support for this functionality that would then result in it actually spreading to some of the bigger vendors and so that\u0027s kind of what I would like to see happen Michael Abraham\u0027s owning it so I I concur with that and just to say that there are commercial vendors that are shipping home routers to ISPs where this is based on open wrt so doing this in open diversity would make it extremely easy for them to include that package as well and to do this ode I mean and I know I mean ubiquity if you look under the hood that\u0027s also a lot of open source on under there so it would be definitely possible for them to take that as well right yeah the issue I think with the big vendors is that they actually get a certain amount of wind from having their routers not interoperate with their competitors routers so right okay yeah but anyway there is use in in in demoing this and open up Ruti so that\u0027s on file agreement jarda palette I I was going to say something similar actually I am I am working with which is piece that because they don\u0027t find the product they need for example to support ipv4 as a service in the market we go to very cheap Chinese vendors which have the same however as more expensive ones because basically it\u0027s a single on chip and that\u0027s it and we use custom open wrt and that\u0027s it and I know by fact that without naming specific big vendors like some of those that you have in the in the slide but some others as well they have in fact as the base code for their products open wrt and they just changed the face okay so I think having that in open wrt will have impact in the market and I think more and more companies are looking to open source solutions I am not really sure that they are trying to avoid to be compatible which competitors may be some specific facilities but if they are estándares they should not they should interoperate right so right yeah and and by the way if we make it easy for them that when the market tells them that they should do it they\u0027ll do it very quickly julia scrubber check you know what i\u0027m going to say no no okay so a whole net "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:59",
    "text": "all of the home that stack i mean the parts of the home let\u0027s tag that exists are far too open wrt yeah and they work yep Marcus Steven and Pierre have done some amazing work of integration of home that into open wrt the complaint is not that it\u0027s not an open EE aarti but Java is not enabled by default exactly it requires a little bit of tweaking of configuration files I have no idea whether you can do it for the web interface because it\u0027s simpler to do or the configuration files now I happen to disagree with you I think that\u0027s not where the problem lies that there were interest the fact that\u0027s not enabled by default would not be a problem it\u0027s only a problem because there is no interest in home that for other reasons if actually people think that is the problem well it might be politically different difficult to get home not enabled by default in open wrt but it\u0027s very easy to fork open wrt and to build images that will actually enable home the home net for open ability for home net by default in those images so that should not be a problem if actually there is the motivation to get the work done yeah so so Julius what the approach that I\u0027m suggesting is is that we do just that right because that\u0027s obvious right it\u0027s open source we can do whatever we want with it so make it easy for for a certain for us for people who want to do it to do it but then the other bit is that I really actually would like to pitch it to some of the some of the vendors that I think would actually get market benefit from doing it because they\u0027re small but they don\u0027t have the advantage of owning the market but it\u0027s not only the fact that it\u0027s open source there\u0027s a stronger property here open wrt is actually designed so that it is easy to make custom distributions based on open wrt yes Michel agreements and it Michael Abrahamson again I wouldn\u0027t even use the word fork you enable packages when you compile it profile it so I guess a profile because I wouldn\u0027t even you I mean using the word fork that\u0027s a good point so you create the custom feed and you might need to disable some stuff that it is default on you enable some other stuff and that\u0027s what I did when I test at home that\u0027s a half year ago or whatever it was um so this is perfectly possible yeah so the other thing to say about what Julia said is that yes we do have support for agency P we have support for routing it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty easy to get working we don\u0027t have support for naming that\u0027s kind of the missing link so so that\u0027s really what I\u0027m focused on I don\u0027t actually see myself having to do a whole bunch of work on H n CP there are a couple things that i wanted h n CP that it doesn\u0027t currently provide but it\u0027s relatively minor and i think they\u0027re all very much in keeping with what h n CP is quite capable of doing so i\u0027m not too worried "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:59",
    "text": "about getting that working I\u0027m hoping that I can get some help from the H n CP experts on it but yeah so that\u0027s what I have I\u0027d like to see this I\u0027d like to try and make it a goal that we actually have some code that we can try out at hackathon in Montreal if anybody\u0027s interested in participating in that either as people who are helping me to get that done or as people who just want to bring some routers to Montreal and see if they can interoperate that would be awesome and that\u0027s all I got so thank you Ted really appreciate that um we kind of skipped over the first item on well one of the first items on the agenda which is just to get an update on some of the expired drafts and maybe what thoughts and plans are with those and we asked if Daniel would just maybe come to the mic you can pick your choice of mic and tell us a bit hi so I think that to expired draft I mean that I\u0027m sort of concerned one is a about how you can outsource your the name the name you want to be public to a DNS provider and the intent was to really provide a mechanism so that we do not fold them to prepare a tree of API so this is one of the work I think it should be I continued I I know some of the people are implementing it so I expect that we provide soon I guess integrate the feedbacks and have a new updated version another draft is about how you configure this mechanism and based on the gscp options so which means in our case it\u0027s it would be most likely the ISP providing the necessary para mirrors that could be used then to configure the outsourcing our architecture I\u0027m not sure this draft I don\u0027t know that\u0027s a it\u0027s a it\u0027s a way to configure something I mean if it\u0027s never going to be implemented it may be not worth doing that one so that is up to what the worker you think and if there are any I species they were willing to implement this one or not at the time I was working for France Telecom they were willing to but I don\u0027t know yet but willing to do so that\u0027s to be discussed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:01",
    "text": "okay so Diane sorry can you just repeat the name of the draft that you think is worth proceeding with I\u0027m no it\u0027s the front end naming architecture okay so the front end 90 architecture you think is worth resurrecting and yes you do with the other one not so sure yeah not so sure okay thank you so I guess that these are where do we go from here discussion and I can\u0027t remember Barbara was I supposed to be the bad cop or the good cop I think I was the bad cop so so I sent mail to the list and there was like dribbles of response a few people I mean a few people obviously doing good work here it\u0027s as chairs it\u0027s absolutely impossible to know what the working good think of it is nobody saying anything so that\u0027s kind of puts us in a position where we\u0027re not gonna proceed to produce RFC\u0027s as is so Ted is suggesting a change slight change of direction I think so we need to know what people think of us or if people aren\u0027t willing to say what they think of that and comment on the list then we need to just talk to our aid our new esteemed ad about getting out getting out of people\u0027s way so please discuss Ted lemon so I have a theory which I hope is true which is that if there were actually like hope of progress there would be more feedback I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s true but it would be nice to see what happens over the course of the next few months if I actually get time to do some code and push some stuff out maybe we get some more comment hi Tim Jane yeah I agree with the stuff Ted put up there earlier particularly with respect to open work one thing I noticed looking at the the working groups data tracker material is that it seems the Charter is unchanged since July 2011 when the working group was formed it talks about forming an architecture blah blah blah maybe this is really a reach our touring discussion as well and to maybe look at what we put in the Charter and whether we\u0027ve achieved it or not might be useful as part of the exercise so just as a clarifying question given that I asked the mailing list is one of the things we should do you know shut down or change direction and got bugger-all response then do you think we reach our doing discussion is likely to energize people ah it might help people remember what we said to do and have some discussion about whether we achieved it but in practice what Ted said is right if none of the vendors are picking it up the the only real hope is to get it into something what open works in particular and then hope that it gains traction from there but yeah it\u0027s difficult when there\u0027s so little impetus and I think it\u0027s been something that\u0027s sort of looking more recently from the outside of the working group it does seem to have stalled for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "the last couple of years in terms of producing things it\u0027s not obviously not your fault you can only work with what you\u0027ve got but at the moment it seems pretty pretty sad really there\u0027s some good work happening it\u0027s just and it\u0027s in open worked as others have said it\u0027s just for some reason not being turned on I Stephen probably Wilson again I think for me at least the clue lies in the two sections of what had presented there was one section on essentially how to structure the architecture if people have got multiple routers in their home and then there was another section about functionality for routers and home controllers in a in an IOT environment if that latter part has emerged since the Charter was written and you\u0027re slightly uncomfortable about whether the Charter covers that then maybe the Charter does need to be looked at again because it seems to me at the moment the likelihood of anyone setting off down either of those two paths from where we are now in a home it\u0027s much more probable that they will go down the IOT route than the having multiple routers route route at the root of the issue and so focusing all the attention on what do we how do we make multiple routers work in a single house it may be very worthy but it feels to me like that\u0027s not what the market is gonna drive what the market is more likely to drive is you\u0027ve got one router in your house and you\u0027ve got maybe multiple IOT device controllers in your house that seems to me the use case that\u0027s most likely to try for the market and vendor base yeah I shocked late Oh totally agree with forgot your name so I I\u0027m in the same boat so when I started this secure home IOT project at Sara I looked at old net and all that and this addresses the use case of maybe point zero one percent of the people that know how to do home gateways with two links in your home and the work associated with that is not really relevant with what people are asking for at all so when we did our quick survey people at home want to have a secure home network when you put an IOT device that they have no clue what it does they want to make sure that it only does what it\u0027s supposed to do and it behaves according to normal roles so what we started to look at is because if you\u0027re gonna be adding a bunch of device at home you\u0027re gonna create a your home network is gonna be like an enterprise network need to have zones you need to have security zones you need to have outbound security control to protect "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:02",
    "text": "your traffic going out you want your fridge wrongly to talk to your vendors fridge and that\u0027s where mud came in to manufacturer user description so certain rules need to be applied to outbound traffic and haven\u0027t seen any work I relate related to that and this is a gap we need to build a secure home security framework to define how home network actually works and that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to implement today we\u0027re defining a framework for that but I have no clue where the works fit we\u0027re building you API is to provision to provision IOT device to provision the router itself and I don\u0027t know where that it doesn\u0027t fit in this group because this is more focused yeah that\u0027s a lot yeah yes but there\u0027s there\u0027s a gap for the home network to make them secure so we\u0027re working ahead but we\u0027re writing drafts and we\u0027d on the way if it and so that\u0027s a challenge we need to figure out Ted London so that was a fun fun statement to be standing behind I actually you know if you don\u0027t know what working group to do this and I think you know to me this is you know I we\u0027ve done a bunch of work I think we you know it would be nice to finish the simple eminent naming stuff that\u0027s been going on a while I really feel like implementation needs to happen before that gets finished but to me the one of the very interesting problems that we face is how do we do you know so how do we do exactly what he was talking about and that actually seems to me to fit in to what the home networking group ought to be doing I don\u0027t know if you know if you guys would want to do it in the home networking group if we made a place for you to do it here if you would I think that might be an interesting thing to pursue it\u0027s it is a bit of a change of direction it\u0027s consistent with what we started out doing but it would probably require a recharter and it\u0027s it\u0027s definitely a topic that\u0027s near and dear to my heart and that I\u0027ve been interested in having us work on for a long time and that we haven\u0027t really worked on because there hasn\u0027t been energy in the working group to work on it so so I think it would be like if that were a way to get some new churn happening on the mailing list and and so forth I think that would be really good they\u0027re here hey Dave are you there we can\u0027t hear you other than scratchiness yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "so do you recycle so julia scrubber track I think I\u0027m agreeing with Robin and Jack earlier on but a little bit differently I think that in this group we are absolutely hopeless at marketing and we are hopeless at marketing for two reasons one is that we communicate badly so I don\u0027t know if you remember a couple of weeks ago somebody said that the problem of hope net on the mainland lives that\u0027s the problem of hope net is that it only supports ipv6 and then I explained that no we have full feature parity for ipv6 and ipv4 and people were surprised that we actually implement everything for ipv4 and that\u0027s the people who are on the hamlet mailing list right that\u0027s frightening it shows you how badly we\u0027ve managed to communicate what we are doing and I think there is a more fundamental reason to us communicate in badly is that we have failed to find out to have a clear message on what feature we\u0027re giving to people so we know everyone in this room everyone on the jabber channel knows that doing things that layer-3 rather than switching is good it\u0027s good in itself it doesn\u0027t need any justification but you don\u0027t actually sell things to people by telling them look it\u0027s a good thing it\u0027s the light side of the force you actually need to tell them look I can do that which you cannot do in your home network right now and we have not been concentrating on communicating over the fact that we have actual features actually if I ask you what are the features we\u0027re giving people how do you sell helmet to someone whom you meet in the metro and have just three minutes to explain it to I think many people even in this room would have to think about it for a while so when I was right and so I think that the main feature good support for shortest paths routing in complex topologies but that\u0027s not the way you explain it to normal people most people when they install Wi-Fi at home are very surprised to discover that they cannot have the access points communicate over wireless links they expect to be able to put an extra access point in their kitchen and they\u0027re very surprised when you tell them you actually will need to have to wire your kitchen over Ethernet home that has perfect support for topologies in which wireless links are used on are used for transit now some of you might remember when I was writing the Babel profile for home net I had an entry in which I explained how you need to use a profile of Babel that actually is able to estimate link quality in order to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:07",
    "text": "provide shortest path routing with wireless transit links and in the rationale I wrote that\u0027s a feature that\u0027s easy to explain to your boss and your customers and I was chastised by the group for being too informal in Northshore Malaysian and this simple clear formulation was replaced by something much more complicated and more difficult to communicate around so I\u0027m not sure what the cost but the consequences I think there is no doubt that they\u0027re communicating badly and I\u0027m not sure if you\u0027re we\u0027re communicating badly because we don\u0027t have a clear idea of the features we\u0027re providing or whether we don\u0027t have a clear idea of the features were provided and because we\u0027re communicating battling and Michael can you also relay the jabber from Dave ok so now I\u0027m Dave Dave tat good good naming is desperately needed in an era where we rarely have control over the a beauty 6 allegation there was a bit earlier so oh yeah my comment oh yeah ok ok my comment is regarding the scope of home that I care about small and medium business networks now deal with IOT there is very very important multiple routers is important security is hugely important good name is is desperately needed okay he said he wouldn\u0027t write more about it than he did so now I\u0027m Michael again so frankly the whole not being able to transport layer to over home net I mean I would never expose myself and my family to her to my two access points being in two different broadcast domains within trying to do handover between them the way it\u0027s currently implemented I mean my requirement is I need to sit on a some kind of IP real-time communication channel and walk through my kitchen to get tea and walk back and my calls should stay up the bay the homeowner today doesn\u0027t provide this premise so I need multi need a broadcast domain from a two Wi-Fi access points now we have this IOT thingy popping up and and so on it has the same requirement ah I I don\u0027t think this can succeed without us being able to provide broad Kasinga broad couples broadcast domains over this infrastructure I mean we\u0027re not gonna win that war we want to have incremental deployment towards halted domains and doing a service discovery between rotting domains dissolved but saying now that in order to use home net need to be able to do seamless you know Island PE or something like that handover between domains the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:07",
    "text": "host hunter I mean this is a miserable bad user experience we can\u0027t drive this we need to be able to do it to be part of an incremental deployment in doing this so I think that is one of the major problems so I I actually tried this I mean I I spent I actually set up homeland with three routers in my home and tried to use it and then I searched it off again because I doing this for Wi-Fi so yes network and the current implementation it needs more knobs I try to use it because I had to I to Jules back links that were pretty good at home I couldn\u0027t use some of it because it didn\u0027t allow me to tune it so it shows he prioritized my host to use one of them and the second one for fall back because the one that II didn\u0027t wanna use had one week HP v6 prefix delegation time and there was a lifetime of there in the RAS and that\u0027s what the host shows and I didn\u0027t want them to prioritize that um and and I mean if I unplug or reboot the router in the current implementation of home NIT next time I plug in the roadie the link it has new addresses if I reboot it it held it all having new addresses it\u0027s a proof of concept implementation that needs more work before you can actually use it I I tried I don\u0027t turn it off because it\u0027s just doesn\u0027t work as an antenna solution today I would like you to work but currently it doesn\u0027t so just to note I think people having a good discussion here about some of the desirable properties of hel networks but not how as a working group we get to help there alright so actually I think there\u0027s there\u0027s a there\u0027s a nugget in in what Mikkel just said though which is I don\u0027t remember actually doing any debugging of this problem on the mailing list and if we\u0027re gonna actually have a functioning working group part of what we need to be doing is actually just that like if you\u0027re having these kinds of problems we should be talking about them on the mailing list I\u0027m gonna let Julius so concerning the roaming issue you\u0027re extremely right we needed to have roaming without remember in between access points and we\u0027re I don\u0027t agree with you is that that requires a single broadcast domain and the proof that you don\u0027t need a single broadcast domain is 4G in 4G you have seamless roaming with no remembering and you don\u0027t have a single broadcast domain and what they use is a complex infrastructure based on the whole series of acronyms I don\u0027t know if you try to read any 4G standards we at ITF are actually good we don\u0027t use a lot of acronyms okay oh they use numbers too they will use cheese 50 59 and s 43 and try to follow the standards but they do actually use some of our protocol they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:07",
    "text": "use pmipv6 proxy mobile ipv6 so there\u0027s a whole infrastructure but it can be done now question is can it be done in a simple distributed way with no infrastructure and the answer is yes but it\u0027s tricky it took me two years to get the implementation done and it has been running for the last two weeks so I don\u0027t have a presentation ready on the subject yet but I do actually have an implementation of seamless roaming at layer 3 in the compatible with the home that architecture ok michael--ah room so again so when one that\u0027s published and available open directly I\u0027ll gladly test it with my walking it to get to tea in my kitchen use case because I have two access point I can\u0027t create a new SSID and then I can test that so that works are about 3 DPP about 3 DPP networks yes they have a tunnel that follows the wherever you are so it\u0027s anchored in one in one end and then you moves wrong between the base stations and they have very complex machinery to get this done so again I think I was the backup so it\u0027s a great discussion I mean loads of time but can we focus on you know where the working groups should we be going so that we can operate as a useful working group so Ted lemon again I think I\u0027ll just point out that that this discussion I just heard a bunch of things about work that\u0027s being done at home net and problems that are being had at home net that never made it to the mailing list and I think that may be part of our marketing problem because so and and I don\u0027t claim to be immune to this I\u0027ve been thinking about this exact same problem too how do we make this work because you know after the presentation in Bangkok I was like well ok do we do we actually have a problem that we need to solve here I think we do and if we do have a problem we need to solve here what are the things that we\u0027re not doing that we need to do and one of them is this exact thing that Julius was just talking about whether we do it with a flat layer - or a or a routed layer three we need to address that particular use case the the my phone should continue to work as I walk from my house into my garage and switched to a different AP so I think that we have interesting work to do and part of the problem that we have is that we haven\u0027t actually been talking about it on the mailing list and so I would suggest that part of the way forward for the working group is to actually you know this actually kind of goes back to I think it was Tim was saying we need to reach hurt her my initial reaction to that was oh god I hate reach are during that sucks but but actually I think he\u0027s right I think that we should have a discussion about chartering because it may be that part of the reason we\u0027re not discussing these things on the mailing list is because we think they\u0027re out of scope and they\u0027re not out of scope so maybe the way forward is actually to open a reach are during discussion I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:07",
    "text": "think that we\u0027ve had enough discussion here at the mic just randomly that the evidence is that is that there is actually interest in doing some work and it\u0027s a little weird that we haven\u0027t been talking about it so so two things one is on the job or Dave said he intends to take his threat of helping and turn it into reality we said dear Ted and secondly yes we heard we do seem to be good as a group of having fine discussions face-to-face and nothing happening on the list I agree Michael Abramson and so this was discussed but it was discussed in like 2016 or something and then it was then it hasn\u0027t been discussed since but yeah we should resurrect these discussions and figure out where the where the gaps are and what you need to do when actually making this useful and yeah we need configuration knobs and we need to fix some things that really is not working so sounded good what Julis described and all the gladly testa Robin will turn again just one quick one to pick up on do races point about communication I think on the one hand if a working group exists to develop specs then it\u0027s developing things that aren\u0027t immediately useful as marketing documents and that\u0027s normal on the other hand the problem that we seem to be faced with is we\u0027ve got vendors who are as usual creating islands of automation and it\u0027s in their interest to create walled gardens and we\u0027re doing a piece of work aimed at giving them something that\u0027s not a walled garden that we would like them to do instead and that doesn\u0027t seem to me to be a new problem for this working group it seems to me to be a generic problem about open standards so I can\u0027t I can\u0027t believe that issue hasn\u0027t been addressed and fix elsewhere maybe what we should be doing is looking at how in general open standards enter the market and seeing if there\u0027s anything that we could be doing that we\u0027re not doing Ted lemon yeah so I totally agree with that I think that so if you look at if you go to home net dot or sorry what is it home that doc work right now it\u0027s actually a blank page like it doesn\u0027t even it doesn\u0027t even produce you don\u0027t get a web page we could probably do something about that but yeah I think there you know another thing that that that I think would be interesting to think about is there\u0027s the in in the t2 TRG meeting that we had on Friday there was discussion about you know do we want to be able to do I can\u0027t remember what the acronym is it was I think a four-letter acronym but basically the idea is is the ability to to store data in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:11",
    "text": "infrastructure or to have work done in the infrastructure and you know for relatively confident home net routers the ability to do work in the infrastructure would actually be an enabling technology for things that that end users might real want to be able to do but currently can\u0027t do right now as an end-user if you want to have a server you pretty much have to go to some kind of cloud right like or you have to set up a Mac or something like that on your home network and people don\u0027t do that and and it\u0027s not automatically there\u0027s no way that I could pitch to an end user who doesn\u0027t already believe in having a server at home why they should spend a thousand dollars to set up a server at home so that they can do chat with their friends or something like that so there\u0027s a whole bunch of stuff there\u0027s a whole bunch of services that aren\u0027t being enabled by our current stop by our current infrastructure that could be enabled by something like a home net where we don\u0027t have we don\u0027t need a lot of computes but we need a rendezvous point so that so that we can communicate and that\u0027s actually something that I\u0027ve been wanting to do I remember proposing this at at a now defunct company as a product like five or six years ago and it\u0027s something that home that could in principle work on and and I think it would be valuable to work on so you know there\u0027s a lot of interesting stuff we could do if there\u0027s interest in doing it people keep showing up for the working group so there must be some reason why everybody keeps showing up so no I\u0027m Dave attacked again it would I would support a recharger for home small and medium business and host changes should be within scope and so class I just asked a couple of kind of baseline questions before we get too into retiring cuz everybody\u0027s you know everybody loves being optimistic about what might happen in future but sometimes doesn\u0027t and so if nothing changes how many people are suddenly going to get really active on the mailing list you\u0027re already active them and it\u0027s it so that that\u0027s like nobody has said that they\u0027re suddenly going to get very active on the mailing list which to me means that unless we do something then we probably should close the loop right so I think there\u0027s some things we could do or wait a while to see if these implementations things mature some more at some point now or after waiting if I talk about retiring or close the work so I\u0027d be really interested in opinions in that space yep Michael Abraham\u0027s is it so I think that this is an interesting question about the small and medium businesses use case as well I mean yeah I can also see people with they have like of summer house and you know of normal house sure they have I you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:12",
    "text": "Michael like I\u0027m sorry but you you\u0027re assuming an answer to the question that I asked has already been achieved my question wasn\u0027t what should we reach our favor right should we just stop should we reach out or should we close I guess he\u0027s one ask the rich are in question okay well I think you\u0027re a su I don\u0027t know from what you\u0027re saying whether you think we should wait for the implementations we should close and just try a new pinion yeah well I think we should have a restore during discussion and figure out okay good and so can other people now if you\u0027re saying that also say we should do that now or we should wait until some more hackathon II type stuff has happened or what no I well I think we can have the restore during discussion no sure do want to penis on what that should be or are we still talking about if well there seems to be enough people in line hopefully on that topic it would be because it what it would be no so we have time Michael to come back to the actual what we might be charter about okay Eric think is an individual contributor right now very nice to see the energy which is here but as you said Steve wait and see for the mailing list and is it again enjoy contributor we chattering seems the right way to go if we get the energy behind Ted lemon so I actually thought about this particular question that you asked a bit the other day and the conclusion that I came to is that if we continue the way we\u0027re going I think that there\u0027s interesting work in there are people who are interested in it but on the other hand we\u0027re consuming a bunch of time at the IETF and so one additional alternative you propose three alternatives I would say there\u0027s a fourth alternative which is continue to have the working group open but just accept that it\u0027s a long-term thing and we don\u0027t need to meet at every IETF I don\u0027t think I\u0027m not proposing that we not meet at Montreal because I think that we have reason to believe that there might be some things to talk about in Montreal but and and you know obviously you might prefer as working group chair not to have this responsibility if nothing\u0027s happening but but it has been the case in the past that working groups have kind of submarine for a while I would I would hate to lose this community if if there are people who are interested in this but but you know now isn\u0027t the time for them to be hacking on it fine I\u0027d still like to be able to have a place where we can do this work even if it\u0027s even if it winds up going very slowly so so I personally I think retiring is is something we should try because it seems like there\u0027s some energy to do some stuff that\u0027s not really clearly in the Charter and if we recharter that energy might wind up landing in the working group which would be good I think we\u0027ve got a bunch of stuff on the agenda to get done for Montreal and if that stuff gets done then that might create some new energy so that\u0027s the thing to try and then you know if we find that we don\u0027t have the energy that we need to continue being a working group that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:14",
    "text": "meets every IETF I still think that it\u0027s worth having the having the working group around in some form because clearly there is interest in this topic in the long term so sure and we just want a I mean agree it\u0027s going kind of quiescent for a while this is an option I mean it still does kind of beg the question would you ever get enough review to call consensus on the results right I assume Robin again Robert Milken again I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think this is a new problem unique to this group it\u0027s it\u0027s the fate of groups like this that they have to try and define what vendors should do before there is substantial consumer demand for it and obviously there isn\u0027t substantial consumer demand for this yet because although people in this room have expressed the kind of problems that hit you when you try and have multiple devices in your home there\u0027s nothing in the mainstream market that consumers can go to and say well I\u0027ll have one of those because it because we\u0027re still dealing with walled gardens so so that the products in the consumer market aren\u0027t driving demand for what we think we should be doing so consumers aren\u0027t generating demand for we ought to do regardless of it being a good idea vendors aren\u0027t generating demand for this spec yet but the way to convince vendors to do that is and I think this comes back to Julian\u0027s point about communication again the way to convince vendors to do that is not only to write specs it\u0027s to write specs and do other stuff as well and I don\u0027t know whether that other stuff is the legitimate work of this working group or not before you go away Robin and just coming back to the question I actually asked what would your answers be well if if it\u0027s if it\u0027s legitimate for a working group like this to produce things that is not specs but is aimed at influencing the vendor community to behave in a particular way then yes this this working group should continue and it should produce those things but we just established so again I think we established there\u0027s a baseline here that nobody\u0027s gonna suddenly get active if we don\u0027t change something we can go quiescent we can pause a while wait for the implementation work to continue and reevaluate you can start retiring now so those are the kind of options that we\u0027re trying to get feedback on specifically right but so okay so I\u0027m speaking at individual capacity I\u0027m not rec not representing your particular organization but if an organization like mine were working on for example things that increase trust in the infrastructure for IOT this might be the kind of thing that they might want to do or support or enable or facilitate okay and I just just to be clear I\u0027m not hearing the answer to the question I asked "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:16",
    "text": "I I can\u0027t commit to my organization suddenly saying it\u0027s gonna do stuff in the next six months on this but it\u0027s an area that we\u0027re working on and so it\u0027s not it\u0027s not beyond the bounds of possibility that we would want to support your neighbor or facilitate work in that direction but we can\u0027t do that if we\u0027re working group shuts down Tim change sorry Steven humor mommy what the question was I think the question is given that the baseline is that nobody\u0027s suddenly gonna get active should we just wait and see how Ted\u0027s interpretation work goes should we start retiring discussion now should we do that later should we just close off remembered what I was trying to say so yeah I think what we lack is probably clarity in a current and up-to-date problem statement what problem are we trying to solve I was reminded of Thomas Nelson\u0027s excellent RFC on holding a successful wolf if we just imagine we\u0027re trying to start now with where we are and making a working group to advance things then we\u0027d have to answer is so the classic five points it I think we do have people that are contributing very good inputs to solve particular problems for example Julius using wireless as a transit potentially the secure IOT stuff Ted and the naming stuff but I don\u0027t think we do a very good job of nailing down the problem statement that we\u0027re working on so if we did go back and look at you know Thomas is five points is that we need a clear problem that needs solving and that the IHF is the right place to do it second critical mass participants willing to work on it which I think\u0027s the point you\u0027re clearly making thirdly the scope of the problem is well defined and understood I\u0027m not sure at the moment it is forth there is agreement that the specific deliverables are the right set I\u0027m not sure what our plan deliverables even are at the moment and fifth it\u0027s believed that the working group has a reasonable probability of success but it\u0027s very hard to define success when you don\u0027t know necessarily what the problem that you\u0027re working on is I think if we viewed it is trying to answer those five questions maybe or particularly the the first one defining the problem statement maybe that is about recharging maybe that is we can bring more people in by identifying specific problems that we want to work on where they would then come into the like maybe security as we have done with Julius for example those are good examples do you think that having a reach are during discussion would at least help clarify some of these cases of what people do and don\u0027t what to do yeah I don\u0027t think it can possibly be helpful that we have an eight-year-old charter I think part of the reason not however here I think Julia said that people think this is a v6 only group is because the Charter is written eight years ago yeah when point zero something percent of the internet on the of the Internet traffic was v6 it was written with a sort of an optimistic v6 will make home networking better perspective and obviously we could have a long discussion about that but that\u0027s why that perception is there if the Charter is updated to make it a more agnostic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:16",
    "text": "about IP version for example I don\u0027t think that would now be a bad thing to be pragmatic about it and then we\u0027ll have Daniel and I\u0027ll try to summarize hi Dan so I think there are two issues one which is the adoption by the industry which we produced and the one will we do we have enough energy in the working group to provide some feedbacks even and we can provide documents without knowing whether it\u0027s going to be adopted or not so what is important is that I think that that level is that we don\u0027t lose all the things we\u0027ve done I see in the at least in there I think we\u0027re making progress in in the way we implement things I see some implementations I see some effort so I think we should not kill that I don\u0027t think recharging will be helpful because we will end up is ok we have the launch sending draft to and they\u0027re like a head of looking in TCP so these are the one and maybe you\u0027re gonna have some others but we will need the one that are here first so I don\u0027t think the recharge I think recharging discussion will lose some of the energy but rather than being constructive maybe what I would recommend maybe so personal opinion might be pretty bad it is to have a deadline saying by the end of the year the work that is ongoing should have made significant progress or we leave it okay I\u0027ll let one more then Evan hunt I see I\u0027m just practicing for Dave Todd on Jabbar though he asked if it he asked if we could get a home on reach our during today you want to do a home it\u0027s a good way to get some input okay so people who think that reach are during discussion which may or may not successfully result in a recharter would be a good idea please hum people who think it\u0027s an absolute waste of time please hum sorry Daniel I think you already explained why you don\u0027t come here the show hands who they see so of those who hummed so vociferously who thinks they would actually be willing to actively suggest charter text and participate in the discussion okay that\u0027s over half a dozen including Daniel I should point out okay so my summary is there is desire to start a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:20",
    "text": "reach are during discussion where it will go nobody knows but will try to direct it and channel it so that it has the potential to become something successful there\u0027s also does not seem to be a strong desire for I guess the chairs to do sort of more setting light to fires and things like that necessarily it\u0027s kind of people need to get their work done maybe there\u0027s not a meeting next time we\u0027ll keep list open even if we don\u0027t successfully recharter will keep things open we may or may not have a meeting in Montreal but in any case the list will be there and it sounds like there may be hackathon progress now I do have a question given that um there\u0027s been experimentation with sort of these open sessions if there is perchance an open session should we try to kind of on the list say this time in the open session anyone who wants to come gather round in the code lounge and let\u0027s hack some more for the people who are around yes Ted so Ted lemon you\u0027ve probably heard me Grich about the tendency in IETF for us to all just get up and do presentations and a few questions get asked and then we all wander off and no actual work gets done I think if we\u0027re gonna have sessions it might be cool to have sessions where we actually do just what you said hack because really the work that we\u0027re doing is development work we\u0027re not like the the documenting of what we\u0027ve developed is important but you know as I discovered when I went through and thought about what I needed to do to implement the HomeNet architecture that is the first thing we have to do like and all of the stuff that I\u0027ve been doing the last year on on home net and on DNS SD has been implementation focused it\u0027s been very effective it\u0027s a great way to generate energy you know we have people show up for hackathon if there are people who are interested in working on this stuff it will be awfully nice if we could just get together in a room and work on it together and you know and share the information that we have like I mean for example you know not to put you on a spot Julius but you have a great deal of knowledge about H n CP that I don\u0027t have and you know also you have a great deal of knowledge about Babel I mean I think Babel is fairly easy to set up so but you know I I think it\u0027s still it would be useful for us all to be in a room whether it\u0027s during the hackathon or whether it\u0027s a session in IETF like you\u0027re describing where we just get a room that the people who actually want to hack can be in I think that would be great I think that would be actually like like what I did for this ITF in my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:22",
    "text": "presentation was actually something that would would have probably gone better in a room with a bunch of people hacking and we could have actually worked on that stuff instead of me just like reciting it so hey um you know I\u0027m certainly willing to try and early if they have unstructured time with available rooms try and snag a room specifically for this as part of our experiment yeah I mean the other thing is that you know that it\u0027s entirely possible to have a face-to-face intermitting if people really want to meet and do stuff so if there\u0027s energy and people want to meet then we\u0027re happy to help organize that that\u0027s that\u0027s pretty easy Tim Chang so one open question is how we engage with projects or other communities that we think bring useful things to this working group so for example we heard of one today I\u0027ve not heard of your project until today and when I certainly be looking at it how do we actually find the others how do we attract them to come here maybe part of that is defining a clear problem statement and advertising it the other thing that\u0027s different from where we charted in 2011 now is that we have in theory a lot more sophisticated home networks we have 25-30 percent of the home networks on the planet now running v6 and so on sat quite close to me who has five million customers I think with the v6 in their homes a quite a few anyway you know and they\u0027re deploying smart devices in the homes how do we get their input here and comment and input from those what is it that we can do that might make it attractive for them to actually use this stuff where at the moment they don\u0027t so let me see if I can summarize what the Charter discussion maybe should be about it sounds like there\u0027s some additional use cases that are at interest in some expanding actually yeah I don\u0027t think I can fully summarize I heard so many things I think just give you a second we have a jabber chest okay so Dave that they\u0027ve tat wants to say that he doesn\u0027t like hackathons and he would like stuff to be done continuously over time every week get builds done do continuous integration gather keyway on testers iterate iterate iterate so he has a point of having an IRC channel or some kind of forum to continue the do stuff in instead of saying oh let\u0027s have a hackathon every three months it there is a point to that at lemon again yeah so I actually think they\u0027ve totally right about that I think though that the the the hackathon also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:22",
    "text": "serves a purpose it\u0027s not that it needs to be one or the other but that actually both are good if we\u0027re not making steady forward progress than having a hackathon tends to be a little bit of like you know it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s very sudden and we aren\u0027t really prepared and and we just kind of we show up and whatever happens happens but it would be a lot better if we were to come into the hackathon with some energy and so if we\u0027re if we\u0027re collaborating off you know in between if\u0027s on this stuff then when hackathon rolls around and we\u0027re all face to face then that is going to be a much more powerful experience than if we just do nothing for the interregnum and then when we show up at ITF we all kind of are like what should we work on yeah so so okay sticking my bad cop hat on again do you need help to self-organize uh well it sounds like I mean I think you if you want to do some prodding I don\u0027t think that would be a bad thing it sounds like Dave\u0027s got some energy to actually try to to create momentum and so if Dave\u0027s willing to drive that then that kind of takes you off the hook I think somebody needs to drive it otherwise you know realistically it\u0027s not going to happen so if that\u0027s Dave that\u0027s great if that\u0027s you that\u0027s great this is more on my agenda now than it was prior to this ITF because prior to this IETF I was mainly doing DNS SD implementation work that\u0027s mostly done at this point so actually very much on my agenda for this break is to do work on open wrt so there should be some self-sustaining momentum on my part with that as well but yeah you know if you don\u0027t see us talking about it on the mailing list I think I think it\u0027s entirely appropriate for you to say what the hell are you guys doing and why aren\u0027t you talking about this on the mailing list because otherwise you know we definitely have a pattern of not talking about this on the mailing list and then not talking about it on the mailing list means that those people who are on the mailing lists aren\u0027t seeing the the work being done and they aren\u0027t they aren\u0027t receiving the sort of energy that that is that is going on in the background so okay so so so just summarize that you\u0027re saying that you Dave some other folks hope to self-organize and we should beat you up if you don\u0027t yes to this crowd which I\u0027m just a quick comment to say that Davis actually has been doing that for the last few years he\u0027s probably one of the two people who have broken Babel the most times good yeah I will second that yay Dave so do we have any ad wisdom to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:22",
    "text": "descend from above Terry Meeuwsen outgoing ad wisdom is a really strong word I don\u0027t know whether it\u0027s wisdom I think there\u0027s obviously some clarifications that need to happen to the I really like the the five points that the Tim brought up from Tom Martin that\u0027s applicable here and I think you should use that as guidance in your charter discussions in defining your problem statement it seems and what I\u0027ve heard so far is about five pages worth of problem statements and then another 17 pages of use cases so that they are not mutually exclusive but they\u0027re not also fully inclusive either so there\u0027s a lot of thought that it\u0027s that you are actually going to have to go through to get to that point I think Ted is absolutely on the money that unless code continually gets cut and and tested then this working group is not really going to be productive to answer your question do you need help self-organizing and I love that question yes absolutely I do I think the working group does need a air quotes project manager of sorts to keep people along whether that\u0027s you the working group chairs or you wish to assign somebody to take on that role to be the ringmaster to to use that whip then I\u0027ll leave that to to yours in the working groups discretion for another thirty hours I think that\u0027s that the only direction I have for you I think I think this means some fantastic work and done in honet but it\u0027s at that really bizarre point right now of struggling to find both enthusiasm and direction okay so there\u0027s some challenge in the jabber room but mechanics of care discussion with you use the list and or from github repo I think I think we\u0027re gonna suggest not trying to dive into that charity especially right but brother take it to the list because I think part of the test is does it happen on the list so I would be curious if people would be willing to try it on github I mean we\u0027re sort of also trying that Indian SSD and we haven\u0027t got a whole lot but I mean we could kind of encourage people it gives us a place to kind of organize thoughts better than an email list Michael Abraham\u0027s is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:24",
    "text": "personally I I don\u0027t like the get away of discussing things and and also they have to set up to get email notifications instead of the formatting and so on and it\u0027s not as good to me I guess it\u0027s all what you used to um I can do either but I mean if I have to choose we miss old tech old people I mean if everybody else wants to get good do goo do gets up above will do that but okay yeah exactly this is good but we do not want to have a discussion in two different in two places at the same time that is not yes I don\u0027t want wheelchair chat with her Oakland ad for next twenty nine hours and our incoming ad for the next 29 years so we chatted propose something other lists and we will confirm the the home on the list obviously as well Ted might be just just concurring that that on the mailing list has the benefit that the mailing list needs more traffic yes okay I think with that we were gonna let you enjoy a little bit extra time for the rest of your morning nothing else no other business thank you if you\u0027re coming too because bring popcorn and okay so should we just offer the make blank github page well I do need an MV which is the old Charter look at the existing China popping up you I mean I I\u0027d start on the list and you begin see whether this takes it and then once we have it a little I can finally take it over to get look there you need em you need to be but yeah I think so might be I think that might be we get a more agile more focused on currents open wrt style on my voice mm-hmm Chelsea thank you "
  }
]