[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "precisely, thank you. And and now we'll bridge that topic because folks are trying to der reference that you and that's sounds to me like we have a volunteer for a note taker. Since it's clearly open on your screen now, could we impose on Okay. Can we have a volunteer for a minute note taker? Please. Paul and I did not prepare good someone please volunteer to be one of the several note takers we have. Thank you. Mike. Right. Think we're ready to go. Alright. Hi, everyone, and welcome it's Thursday, and you are here in the Sag meeting. Thanks for thanks for joining us here in the room and we're running a hybrid session So welcome to those that have joined us joined us remotely from wherever they might be. First thing one of cover, of course, is something you've seen if you've been participating with us all week, here is the relevant note well. If you have any questions, about it, please don't hesitate to to ask Paul or I about that. I was remiss introducing myself. My name is Roman Den, I'm am one of the second ids and sitting next to me is? Valve routers. The other second. Next slide. Okay. So the... So that there are many things in that note well, we would just like to reiterate what it means to live the code of conduct let's be courteous to our colleagues. Let's keep it on message on the technical things."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "And really remember why we're here to create solutions for the Internet. Next slide. Again, as a reminder, we are in a hybrid meeting situation, so those were some quick best practices around using the technology and a reminder that please wear your mask in the room unless you are actively speaking into the microphone. Next slide. We have a a a relatively tight agenda here around two key Op, first, we're were gonna do a quick summary of what's been happening in the area since we last got together, highlights in what's been happening this week or will happen this week And then the the second the second in the media, the media of the two topics is Sophia Selling has graciously offered to summarize for us but what's been also happening that's hot in the security area quite relevant to us. In Japan right now, which is the real world crypto symposium. Pausing here, would anyone like to bash the agenda? Right. Hearing nothing. Let's move on. It's not coming up. Sorry. We're just having a hiccup where slide looks right on the screen here, but it's not displaying correctly anywhere. Not there it is. So this security community here the Really only works because folks are willing to volunteer and are willing to help And that that's what makes sure that The things we ship out of the Are secured and we have secure solutions deploy on the Internet. And you can help out in a couple of different ways, feel free to talk to us about it. If first, we we always need some help but with running and administrative all the administrative processes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "for making our working groups successful. If you are interested in becoming a working room, Please don't hesitate to reach out to us online, Tallest us that, you know, hey, I would like to be a working your chair. You can say things like I would like to be your working for a select set of topics. You can even tell us I don't know if I'm ready to be a working group. But kind of keep me in mind and how can I can I get to the point where I I could be a working group trip? And to add to that, we are really looking for broken group for some specific groups. So please put your name in the in the box. Now. Well, Paul, I mean, don't... You know there specific workers we call out or should we handle that offline? Okay. We'll do that offline. And and the other the other thing to kind mention is that We just concluded the the non comp process, but the It is also always looking for that who will be the future eighties ids of this organization. So if you are interested in becoming an ad, please don't hesitate to reach out to again, Paul me to really just talk about what that means, what that experience is like. And how you could be better prepared to to put your name into for consideration during the Another very concrete way to help out is you can be a document shepherd it's great when working group chairs shepherd those documents, but what what works even better is if non working group chairs are are those document shepherd, and it's really a great way to learn about how that process works. And I can't really emphasize you how helpful it is to to to the working group shares enter the when we have really well written and well shepherd documents helping us through all of that through that entire process. We will have stats a little bit later, but Sec, I think is number two on the shameless list of how big our backlog is related to Era erotic that is a for open working groups and for working groups that have concluded. That's another another way you can help with the process. And then lastly, we're always bringing a new work into the organization helping us bed ideas especially at the box is really crucial to make sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "that that we're doing the right thing in the. So wanna talk about anymore any of those, please don't hesitate to reach out or find ways to connect. We have a couple slides around administrative things. These are largely drained as what's been happening in the area since we last got together. So since last time we did these slides, we try to keep these these metrics we try to keep the the same metrics. We've been fairly busy. It's since the last time we got together, four new working groups have been created or reopened. So meeting for the first time and chartered since the last time we got together are sat p and p whip. And then reopened our our Jose and and Rad. So that's four new four new working groups on top of slightly over slightly over twenty five that we already have now. We have we had one security area working group this time. This was on the topic of key transparency key trends. And we'll talk a little bit more about that. about Wes was at the mic, so he was gonna say something, please. Okay? Next slide. We we always ask that working group drop the most significant things they that that they think the the Sac community wants to hear about those work groups thank you for all those. We're not gonna do the big roll call. You're about what's happening thank you for for paul for pressing us to not have that. But we would wanna give working group shares an opportunity if they think that there's something to say if the might, they wanna attention, please, you know, please line up. The floor is yours? Okay. I'm gonna say something. Just technically set p is on the slide two. It's not actually security area group it got it's an apps, but Paul still the Ad. So it's confusing. And you can leave it up there, but just you may or may not wanna remove it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Thanks, Wes. Paul and I for everyone's got of benefit Paul and I help chair, a number of word groups also in art, in that same situation as Sap is also sci and ti, but we embrace and log all the work groups that we cherish. So this is list is a little bit we negotiated with the community where there was concern that there was security expertise needed. In art things and this was something that it was really top of mind. That we embrace them in include them in the fold here to make sure there's appropriate awareness. Good point, mass. So last call, are there any working groups working chairs or participants of the worker they wanna come up to talk about something significant? That Sag needs visibility? Okay. Not hearing it. We'll ask the same question, there are also a number of other working routes that are working on security topics, but perhaps not shared by Paul nines, so they are on this slide. And they're happening with someone like to come off the mic to talk either about those working groups or things in the Ir. Or perhaps through delays on activities you're doing with other. Yes steven. Hi, Steve. There's a new research group form about usable formal methods. Which has like, a pilot security stuff. So people are interested that it's largely building off the work with started at two s one three. You know, policy have that kind of thing could be more broadly useful or made better. So usable formal methods research group if you're interested. Thanks, David. Wes coming back. Sorry West Her Isi and the I can board. The I can't starting the process of deciding how to how frequently to roll their dns keys for the zone as well as potentially doing an algorithm change. There was a meeting this week that I unfortunately, was conflicted with myself. But they are taking public comments and certainly, group would be the right group to read what they're proposing and think about what they're offering."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "So wes is it non obvious? Where is it very obvious, I'm sorry to submit to to kind of submit comments? Or how would we go to h as I don't know the url Paul. Right Actually, I was gonna indicate both things that you said. Paul Hoffman, Ic can staff as compared to Ic can board. So the case the The current K is being rolled but there's no open discussion of it. Already been announced. The algorithm is being considered for rolling. There's a design team happening currently they will in the future probably couple months from now. Have a public discussion of how future roles might algorithm roles might happen, there will be an open public discussion at that point, we will certainly size and touch like that. After those comments come in, nothing will happen for, like, a really long time. But we do... We will at that point what public input on the way that they will decide which algorithm to roll to and how they will roll. But you'll see that, but not for at least a few months. Okay. Thanks so much for that clarification. Any other hot topics that are happening across the areas? Okay. In that case, as we open with... We we're talking about ways you can help we would wanted to kind publicly thank and and show the list of some of the new working chairs folks that have stood up and are willing to serve. We said we had four new working groups. That requires that requires leadership in four different places. So thanks so much, Sofia sophia Paul, Clear West John John Karen Margaret n. Valerie. Slide And that could be you. So let us know. We had one non working for mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "form. So in preparation for the keep transparency, Ba we made the key trans mailing list to support that discussion coming into idea one six, No one came up to the mic to talk about the key trans but the the the top line summary is that was a non work reporting Bob to talk about key transparency. We walked out with a strong consensus that in broad strokes, we in fact, understand what the problem statement is associated with that? Was also strong consensus that this is an area in which the I etf should be working. There are preliminary design properties, requirements, kinda hey waiting a little bit about what a solution kinda would look like? So there a base kind of set that there it appeared that we had consensus around. There were a few that we didn't fully kind of have consensus on. And so the next step coming out of that bath was to take all of that input, nail down what that rough problem statement was into a crispr set of words to cod some of those some of those design properties and put that into a charter and bring that to the list and kind of discuss and get see where we are where we are based on that, and that's gonna be happening on the key trans. And and note that this is actually key trans at I dot org. We did not get our own it top left the domain. Trying to spend those llc dollars. Paul and I have a number of Paul and I have a number of documents. We've agreed to eighty sponsors, so just what you see up there are are where those various documents are practically since the last time we talked, the numeric Id considerations document went to the Rf c editor and the Ip second, Key document went to Rf. Those others are in some version of review. Actually the the E document did see a revision that had like a large round of changes to make it like something less academic and more It like. So it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "haven't had the latest version, Please go ahead, read and and comment on the sack, please. But I will remind people soon too. Yeah. As a general reminder what ad sponsor means. That means these are documents that Paul and I are personally moving forward through the process They are not products of the working group. So as an artifact of not being a product of the working group, they don't get review unless we hustle for it or it goes through the Of last call process. So if you have spare cycles, the these would be good documents to put your to put your eyes on because it's either gonna be us last call or Is review before they out. I mentioned when we started, these are the new slides. When I mentioned when we started that we are a little behind on era processing and you could see the rough the rough trends since we started laying eyes on this at Ie f one and thirteen, the number of is slowly is slowly kind of ticking up. The number that we are closing has exceeded is exceeding the number that's being reported. They... They fall in in two buckets, roughly sixty forty. Where about sixty percent of them are actually with working groups that are active. And about forty percent are actually a lot harder because they are related to documents that no longer have active working groups. So a plea again to Tls lamps ac you and Ip set, your documents have all sorts of a that should be looked at. Say again, it's very possible. It doesn't make sense. Is it possible that you have the close to reported numbers backwards because You know, you closed three open sixteen and the number when down, it looks like. Oh, no. No. I... They're up from the bottom. Okay. I understand."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "I would like to be in the situation where the number is dropping, but it is in fact not. Okay. Next slide. So these are just pointers, pointers we have... This... The the top one is something we iterate a lot and are open to feedback. Eighties look at a lot of documents every two weeks during the tele chat, we like to flag in in coordination with the security directorate. Things that we commonly flag on that may that may block the processing of that document Those common issues it's about eleven or twelve of them are captured at that Url Paul I also get a lot of questions on where's my document? And what are you doing with it? What's the next step? If you wanna have deep insight and look at the same dash forward that we look at about what we should be working on are checklist, so to speak, Those are the two urls you can der reference and that'll give you a sense of what is where and who who's running point, whether which one of the two of us that that that it's there. Should point out that Is in the of a wiki migration, I believe the migration has actually occurred, and so we have two wiki we have the old legacy track that I kept here. And then there is in fact wiki dot F, which is where the content will all be. We are a little bit behind all our content got migrated over, but there's a bunch of formatting to fix and it's a little bit of a mess so between now and one seventeen. We'll get all of that cleaned out. Next slide. Okay. So to close, we wanna say a huge thank you to the security director review team and anyone... The the members of that best sector review regime that that provider review since we lost got together are listed there. Thank you. Thank you so much. We can't underestimate the value of those independent reviews as those documents are approaching being a publication for, you know, without really kind of hyper, The buck really stops with the final review the Is does."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "But the step really before that is the sector, making sure that there was some review that occurred on those documents and they are, you know a foundational basis of how Paul and I look at those ballots. So the time you put into this really improves what we publish a very profound in a very specific way. So thank you really thank you for all that work. And also wanted to acknowledge Tar, someone has to assign there was a review of all those documents to all those people, and that's what he does every two weeks. So thank you for administering this process for us. Okay. With that, we'll kinda pause first to are there any kind of any questions about any of the administrative stuff we kind of talked about? What's happening in the security area Well pause here, we have this topic and then we'll have, of course, open mic as well. Alright. Not hearing any so, we'll move to the next item on our agenda. Sofia sophia, the floor is yours. Thanks so much for giving us an update. Thank you very much for inviting me to give it presentation. Sorry for not being person there even though I'm in Tokyo, but I'm doing conference at the same time with several levels of engagements. So has been really complicated. But basically, was to give a report from from the real work crypto conference, w twenty twenty three that happened the same time as the idea. Run from Monday to Wednesday. Yeah. I cannot control this light. So yeah. We would ask you one control Or do you want us to flip through? I got control if if that's okay. Absolutely. With embarrassment, we're looking how to give you control."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Thank you, Rich. Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much. Okay. Okay. So let's let's go into the actual extra presentation. So mainly when I will be reporting happen in real world crypto is what I think that is going to be most relevant or the most relevant talk with the idea. But it's called bear in mind that there's probably some ism because it's also the talks that I have found more interesting. But if you actually want to learn more, they I Has a Youtube channel where the videos of the full program had have been already being uploaded. So you can rewatch them then if you want to actually check the slides or the program, I also listed those into this presentation. I also have just a Pc member this time of crypto twenty twenty three's. So I also knew a little bit more of the talks ahead of time. Also we were crypto the way to worship. There was some worship that was call world Ptc, and another version that is happening right now, which is called hugs. The first one care deeply about putting post into the protocols that we have. And the second one is mostly about concern what it means do have high assurance into the implementation of crypto that we have nowadays what. So the way... Both of them were quite interesting. Okay. So I divided this presentation into this the docs of the three days, and which ones like come are kind of more interested thing for the efforts of the. So the first one is more concerned about the quantum crypto migration. We have a presentation from Google specifically from Stefan and Sophie. And they talk about a little bit what is happening right now. At the Google level and how they are migrating their infrastructure to use for quantum crypto photography. And what they basically reported is that they have been prioritizing mainly in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "confidentiality part of the of the different protocols that we have and it's specifically, they have been trying to migrate a code that they call, which is a version of mutually authenticated Tls that fits their needs and they have been basically looking at migrating into that. So they are basically looking into encryption on, but also on signatures where the public is a hard to change, so for example in the roots of trust on migrating all the symmetric crypto, and also migrating symmetric recovery work with less priority. During the migration, they reported that they found some problems specifically, they found some stock overflows because this happens because some of the quantum algorithms that have been targeted to be that I have parameter slices when compared with classic properly. And therefore this turn that they had a stack overflow and the way that the soft is basically moving them from the stack to the heat. Another thing that They reported is a prior to actually sign my grade in infrastructure. They did perform some benchmarking but the deep are benchmarking from the local side when they actually put it in production, they realized that it didn't match the is that it had locally because the Ci bench markings were completely different from the local ones. So this basically already gave us some point to that we're actually going to migrate photography in the real world, it doesn't only apply to having local benchmarks but actually world data, it seems to be that it's the most accurate representation when we actually try to do a post quantum migration. You want to learn more about it invite you look at the slides of the percentage presentation. Another interesting talk was more concerned about box implementation level and the presented center two, which is called Tls which is basically a way in which you can indeed check all of the different implementations of the Tls protocol code. Like, for example open necessary assistant."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "And automatically check them against input vectors and also the Rf. This discuss indeed has been much better to actually found implementation parts year. Let's not risk in instead of relying or manual checking of them, and that way actually having box every year found on the different Tls libraries. So if we interested in actually learning about this more automatic testing of tls I put the two on slide and also the presentation from You about this research. Another interesting doctor is heavily related to the Idea is an analysis that at the researches of this as slide, and this is slide of the product protocols that I used to generate their key session key for the score protocol, which is our c eighty six thirteen. And basically, what they focus specifically was in the construction home mc sign. So what is actually concerns about as we might know in the room is that basically, that idea was to design a secure communication critical focus train environments and this is difficult because low family devices support only limited set of crypto photographic primitives and also because Iot secure protocols my current mini bandwidth and trip time and power consumption over ahead. So as we know the Proposed your score critical, which is how to actually define how to securely communicate in this devices, but with the assumption that the session key has already been generated. And the lake working group actually concerns and has document to how to determine how to generate such a session key. So the research is basically what they did is that they took a drop and the technology that currently has been proposed eighteen and the it of and they perform security analysis of it. As I specifically told you about they care quite a lot on the Mac and side approach because this is kind of a new approach from a crypto perspective has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "usually. What you do is that you first signed and then you mark as it happen, for example on the Tls protocol. So they were really interested on that. And data the and they need an initial analysis of it, which you can find in the paper that a link on this slide. But they invited for more future analysis from all all of the searches on the room. We also had on the day one, a really interested in Bai talk which concern about a new protocol code that was up has for their encrypted backups that you can read again or the link that I have put on this is slide, and basically what they wanted to do in was that is not only half protections on the trans to provide confidentiality on education and integrity by using the signature protocol but they also wanted that the same properties should also hold for the backup of the different messages that you have in the conversation. And what the decided to do is that they were too avenues to actually have this backpack up backups basically by having a master encryption key, all by using password base. And the indeed went into the route of using password based approach. And for this, what they did is that they use they'll big critical which is currently under standardization on Cf g at I of for actually registering all the password. I'm And they have an initial white paper and they are actually actively rolling this out. But they again invited some research into actually their white people or the usage we can serve as a great research area for Cf. Finally, I think this is final slide on day one some common theme on real crypto is that a lot of attacks have happening this last year on different protocols and in different crypto primitives And this research indeed the the security analysis of a protocol code that is called the mega protocol, which are critical that concerns about cloud storage."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "But the presentation did not even... Did not only concern about the specific task but also what it means to have end to an encryption in cloud storage. So one of the things that the did is that they also analyze all of the possibilities Link So what lessons do we actually have or the day one first, of course, we have the quantum crypto my migration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "that seems that Indeed has been started, but it's a started as low base. What it seems that really is working right now in this industry rather than just changing all of the infrastructure from one day to the end of that to use respond geography rather to have a really organized create for approach, seems like the bar of head sometimes not only that is enough from a local level, but you actually have to test first with real data to see that all of your benchmarking all of your memory allocations and implementation considerations and enough in order to actually migrate your architecture. That seems to a still found even in protocols that we consider very secure sample Tls, it is true that tls from a specification level specifically Tls one point three from specification level is very secure has have add a lot of analysis But it still shows up a lot of box from the implementation level in the majority of the big Tls libraries. So again, we saw now are proposing way novel ways to actually do automatic testing to check again not only the but also known input vectors. And again as I said, there's a lot of tags that is happening especially in ad hoc crypto. Right. And what the community you also ask at least from this time that station buddies is that when we actually think about end to end encryption, specifically around secure messaging that we should not only focus on the transport side of this protocol but also on what it means to a assist to actually achieve encryption occasional an integrity from for example, the backup level or from the cloud storage level So a lot of research actually called out for active effort to standardize such such a flavor of those verticals protocols. And that's basically day one. Now we go a little bit more from day two. There was a really interesting session in actually what it means to put crypto out in the world and what it means actually to design for end users. So there was an active effort from the tree talks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "I have listed to this slide to actually rethink how we design crypto and I only have the assumption that we know better, or we know this security and privacy properties that you me need rather to go to those users and different demographics demographics of those uses. And that asked them what is the properties that they actually need and design based on that. So there were a lot of crypto actually calling up for more user studies of crypto geography, more design study from that and also I need to section between soc and research. I also would like to point out here that tomorrow we have the Hr working group session. And we invited one of these authors thirty present working group, so you're very interested in actually knowing how you sign crypto photography, for example for grass organizing, specifically for active working in black lives manner, I all the against I invite you to join tomorrow. A really interesting doctor that while it's interesting to the Idea if he doesn't have that much impact into the protocols that per s, but maybe it's interesting to think about it. Is that some researchers actually looked at the Mechanic Knowledge, which is us no as a generator to generate pseudo random seats And they looked at it because if you read the specification from this, you will figure out that things doesn't look that right and that there seemed to be some points that point out that they might be backdoor into this specific generator. The same way of what happened with the Vg. One day started the avenue research, they have ninety percent accuracy that there could be a backdrop, but they don't have the hundred sent. So they're still actively looking that. And one of the questions that you actually really ask to the audience and I guess also to the idea here. Is that if you know of a application with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "it's been used in practice. That please let the authors know because it will be good to actually warn them that there's a high percentage of probability that there's a backdoor in that specific seat. If you want again to read more about it, I invite you to read the beep. Finally, as I said, one of the teams that we had on real work is that there was a lot of protocols that currently wear apa pack specifically on the secure messaging area. One of that protocols protocol that's caused drama, but there has been ordered that over the year has been carefully analyzed as for example, the matrix spread code or or the which high protocol or the telegram protocol protocols. But the that the analysis of also presented What I found out is that the majority of times, that seems to be problems with actually using secure libraries. What it it seems to be that the designers do is that they took very famous crypto libraries for example, if sodium, Na and also leaf, and they implemented that, but it seems to be that in the way that they are implementing and the way that they communicate all their protocols that there is where the attacks are found. So again, this is a kind of code to I but it's not enough to look just at the protocol the trans. Lemon but also how it interacts very example, we private contact discovery or backups on the cloud storage mechanism because it seems that they're in that direction that the majority of attacks and security will their abilities have been found. And doc that I notice of interest of the idea specifically the mimi working group. About interoperability and then to ethnicity It's basically kind of s sk has serbia or what it means to achieve interoperability in End to end encrypted Messaging, and the researchers divided the considerations to have an inter system like that into three parts. The first is of course,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "have to consider identity interoperability and discovery, which basically concerns how you're going to be managing your keys. Then the second one is about messaging protocols, for example if you use signal and then use another product similar tweet, but with some different security properties as the matrix one, and if you use then another one matter how they going to mean for that with each other. And finally also how we're going to be preventing abuse in this kind of system specifically in regards to the current trend of actually trying to check for system for example on different types of protocols. So these are could serve this paper could serve us a good conversation to also have other mini meeting east. So let's on on day two basically, there was fast that we should who we designed for as script however but also people that design systems and pre protocols and that maybe is not enough to only think about one category of users. Rather to actually go to many demographics, so many populations of uses And that's the specifically, what kind of needs they have so we can sign for them. Back while this comes from the cost of do and see, and we thought and maybe that was away from us. It seems that it's still there's a possible of avenue of a taxpayer and the they is still exist So more careful consideration on them should be taking. Again, there's a trend of having attacks some practice specifically between coast attacks, And internal of secure messaging is this in early stages, a lot of researchers are just looking into what is specific consideration. We should have when signing internal problems secure message. And finally, we have day three, which is the one that I been highlighted a lot of talks in this presentation, because the majority of the docs talked about novel crypto, that while interesting from the photography level, maybe they doesn't have yet some applications at the, but eventually in the future that will come."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "But something very interesting is that a lot of researchers presenting new verification and formal implementation, which might be of interest of Iot app, especially because of the new Usable former verification working group. That were just created. And this seems to be a trend and now finally formal verification informal implementation is used in practice and can be deployed So it seems to be that for example, even the new tools can be integrated into the work flow of different programming languages so you can indeed check your product only a much more easier and faster way. And one of this example is the one that was presented, which is called Hex. Another really interesting one, know that the Idea has not yet a standardized any kind of serial proofs But currently, there has been a rise of interest of that is specifically blockchain applications, but also to maybe a test set certain an information about encrypted data. There was one presentation such as that in which what they wanted to propose is to use zero knowledge roof for five this information. So one of the things that is happening now is from the coalition of content Providence and Authenticity is that they have been trying to come up with a system that allows you to tell you is a main was properly generated from source. So you can be meeting points or detect when an agent image has being modified or or belongs from a campaign of misinformation. So when they propose system instead of using signatures as they propose from C Once instead of using that that we should use serial knowledge proofs in order to prove content. But There was leave with about debate if it is indeed something that we want in practice this to have or is it still something that we must debate from a more political level. And again, we want to learn about it. There's all the links on this slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "So just to recap late again on day three, there was a lot of crypto dogg specifically this knowledge groups There was a lot of presentations about threshold photography, how we can use it in practice. Haven't highlighted that here yet, but that might of interest of the Idea think pictures used. Also presented a new call for Trish Forest that I've seen threshold encryption schemes. So that has been... That seems to be on the rise to actually have both threshold crypto algorithms. And against this seems say seems capable to solve really problems, but we still need more recession consideration needed as specifically, this is the technology we want to push forward. And something good that I'm happy that is aligned with the of this formal verification is finally landing, and it seems to be used are now implemented at the core level of the different programming languages, which is... So it's really secret test. If you're crypto algorithm don't if your protocol a call is indeed behaving the way that it's supposed to be Here at hats there has been a lot of conversation info for example integrating things as this tool that is called Hex hack step into the drafts of Cf to check that whatever implementation of your closely matches the Rf drops from C t, so that indeed can be also one avenue to propose to Cf. And with that pass report. So if there's any questions are happy to take them I to be there tomorrow person if you want to talk more impressed. So thank you. So so we're clapping in the room because that was unbelievably thorough. Thank you so much for for doing that, we I think many of us in the room actually wanted to be there. It almost felt like we were given that you use you honed in exactly where where things might be. So thank you for doing that And also This was very timely. I know it was very hard. You're still managing other things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "during kind of the event. So thank you for summarizing. That for us. I the audience is very appreciative of that. There are folks in in the my. Please. Okay. Hi. So my name is Ka. This is my second time participating On t etf. And I served as a general chair of ar twenty twenty three. And I want to say a word about excuse on the collapse of this timing. Our was supposed to be held every January. But because of Covid, we couldn't do it last year. So therefore, we were planning for January this year we have to spoke and this these three days were only days and we could hold it among other restrictions. So I took this to steering committee and they confirmed that for future conferences we'll make sure there won't be any collapse. And thank all for, phenomenal. Thank you. Thank you so much for considering all the all the organizational kind of dynamics I mean the things that at the event are really so relevant to us as as his sophia was just pointed out was. Are there any questions for her? Alright. With that, another kind a big thank you and thanks for also putting in all the pointers we can follow off on a number of these papers. Alright. With the agenda, this brings us to the open mic time, is there any issue comment up. or topic anyone would like to bring What we'll ask again. Is there anything anyone wants to talk about on the mic before we conclude. Chris you're... You're on the queue... It's okay. You don't need a punch it in the yeah. Okay. Chris. Sort of a vague question that I'm hoping people here can entertained for a little while. My phrase as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:05",
    "text": "There are some protocols in some technologies that the Specifies that receive a tremendous amount of feedback review from people within the community and also without outside of the community. So Tls one point three is a great example of this. We spent a long time trying to make sure that it was Correct. It met the desired properties that we all agree like authenticate sc protocol should have. And I think we made a promise to ourselves that we would try to, you know, reapply the lessons that we learned in that process to other things that the It specifies However, I think just the the this the scale of things and the number of things that this community produces it's just too much for, like, security practitioners to keep up with and researchers to keep up with And so we're in the situation now where we like, recognize the value a formal analysis. But we haven't been able to apply it at the scale that the It etf needs. And the answer to this has been or the the way we dealt with this it's just to have kinda the push documents through regardless sometimes of receiving formal analysis. Something sometimes we'll have, like, security considerations that we you don't think do a reasonable job of, like, covering things that are important. But some protocols legitimate security protocols go through the process now after one point three. Without formal analysis. And I'm wondering if, like you know, that's the the right state we want to be in. Or if maybe we should try to slow things down a bit, maybe do some more work to pull people who can do this analysis and help us out do not know what the right answer here is because it's a tremendous coordination problem But I just want to observe the fact that you know, there are things that are being published today that I don't think not the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "or achieve the same level of analysis that we would like them to have and That seems like a problem that we should as a community tried to fix, and I don't know if this is the right venue for that, but There was silence at the mic so I figured I would ask it here. Curious to hear what people think. Thank you, Chris. There was a question we do that the Sac community at the last meeting, and I think we got mixed results, we certainly did not hear consensus at the mic that we should start forcing formal methods on and we couldn't even wrap our arms around what would be the versus of things that we would even consider requiring on. For sure. And I think like achieving that sort of consensus be incredibly difficult. But... And maybe this is something that the new format at this group can help us with, like, making these tools more easily applicable by people in this room who might not be experts to, like, you know, bash their protocols with them to get them into shape. But sometimes like, you know, the the hard challenges are not like, applying a tool. It's like asking the right questions and, you know, while there are people who are, like, deeply steep in the technology we specify they might not have the perhaps the, you know, the right the the the perspective that's necessary to ask those questions correctly. Like, what does security actually mean for this protocol. What does privacy actually mean? And I I wish I have like, a better answer here, but it it seems like a pretty kinda systemic problem that And it was discussed last time, so I I I seems like people are aware of the problem It just I I... Yeah I don't know what to do. Thanks. Justin You're up next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "Hi, Justin Richard. So one of the drafts that I'm working on in in Http has been the focus of some analysis and definitely there's been a call for it's it's been sort of in under the umbrella for this as part of this call for formal analysis. And from my opinion, like, I I welcome it as a tool that we can apply. I still don't think it's something that should be this, like, you know, hard date that protocols must go through in order to pass. And the reason for that is that with that draft, we actually recently had research point out some problems, not end the protocol but in the examples of, like, what we were saying the protocol that the the B signing protocol could be used for as just part of our storytelling. And a researcher approach said like hey, according to our model, That's a terrible idea and here's here's all of the reasons why. Thought I thought this was fascinating that this came up. And so I approach somebody that I know has done a number of formal analysis models on different protocols and stuff. Sat down with him and and sort of ran through the results and His response stuck with me, and that's... And that was Our model never would have seen this. And I think that that's a really important lesson for this community. Analysis is not a single solution. It's a Method that it's a wide family of things that can be applied and to echo, at least how I took the previous comment asking the right questions is absolutely vital to us. And and getting the right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "answers out of things like this. Tls one dot three, I I think benefited immensely from formal modeling because we had had many many many years of experience of what Tls looked like and what we expected from it and how people had attacked versions of it in the past. All of that knowledge went into not just the modeling, but also what we ask the model to to us And for new protocols going through we don't necessarily know all of those questions ahead of time. So I would be afraid of getting a false sense of security when One particular form model doesn't analysis and says everything's fine. And then somebody else finds another problem that that model never would have seen because the model is asking different questions. All that to say, I'm hugely in favor of formal analysis being available to this community I think it's fantastic. And I think we do need to do more of that but I stopped very short of saying that it should be required for protocols for publication for these reasons. Thanks. Mike? Worth. Formal modeling ignorance. Is there a way to get more education on this, Like is I'm asking I don't know what the current tasks or what that Ir f group is doing is they're gonna be like, work shops at future etfs to share this knowledge around, so we all know what were asked being asked... With the chairs of that group, like to come to the mic tell us about that, Steven. I don't think catherine's here he's probably off one of those workshops. We we don't know it's we had the first meeting this week. Certainly, one the goals is is includes education and trying to figure out ways is to make things useful plus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "it's early days. We're hoping that's. Bunch of the people who were involved in thousand one three and similar analyses Same keen under doing things. There's a bunch of people keen on on figure finding more like yourself, I guess. And yes, part of it is kinda trying to figure out ways he's to kinda make a bit better informed. And try and find ways of using these kind of four moment in other protocols, not just crypto. So we'll say, it depends if people are interested then get involved and figure out what do. There won't be any miracle answers. Paul Hoffman, following up on no miracles to answer Chris question, why isn't this happening more? Some protocols were much more attractive than others. Tls one point three very attractive, very, very widespread I work at I can't. And I mostly work on Dns. The butt of most jokes these days and such like that. We are much likely less likely to get some of the the small resources that are available for doing formal analysis on ours. The new protocols that, you know, which is where we would really like to see that. Have a harder problem because they can either overs sell themselves about how they're gonna be, and let's face it almost everyone in this room has worked on a protocol thinking it was gonna be the hot new thing and it just, like fell on his face. And we don't want to spend the limited formal analysis resources on those, but we don't know which one to do it on. So until we have more of those resources available. I think we're we're gonna see that they will go towards the glossy and probably quite correctly, high value protocols like Tls one point three like Ml s, things that are really looking good. And so this might be five or ten years down the line, and we might get analysis later that go like, you missed this whole thing even though you're well established now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:07",
    "text": "Good point about resource management. Chris? Yeah. Just one final comment. Yeah. Thanks for bringing up the the message signature draft. Justin. And I I... It's a good example of, like, how formal analysis in this particular case, helped us sort of improve confidence. The that we were specifying. Because, like, you took dennis work like, update... Or you're going to update the examples as far as I understand it. And like, that Great. It's just like another mechanism that we have at our disposal and improving the confidence of the things that we specify. Another way is, like, writing tests and, like, doing experiments and stuff like that. So I... I'm not suggesting it all here that, like, formal analysis is the the the the one true way by which we establish the the the... Our confidence in a protocol, it is a tool that complements the other things that we have at our disposal that the It does already pretty regularly. I just... I would like to see a little bit more emphasis on it as a as a as a complementary tool. And That's my humble request. So with closed because it was actually getting pretty full, but since it's empty now, we have five minutes if and Else anything Please feel free to come to the mike. Hi. Are you off. Share I to an nsf and myself is going to close When we finish the couple of documents that are... I think by now I review. On the tele chat, April thirteen So there are proposed more documents, but we don't... We're not going to real not going to keep the working move open, but there are proposed documents. So What we told the authors was to go to the sec dispatch list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "and just want to be clear and the fact that dispatch is an ongoing process and you can ask questions of what to do with this draft on the list, you don't have to wait for this one hour of like dispatch meeting three times year. But that the dispatch is an ongoing process. So Like to see the one is okay with that statement because I don't see a lot of activity on the dispatch list except that oh, I want to bring that up in the next meeting. Absolutely. I mean, we if there is a male that folks need to use that has broad eyes, we do have sag, if the the key focus is around getting a dispatch result, dispatcher absolutely appropriate. We we have not done it in some time, but it is even possible if there is a backlog of demonstrated interest on the mailing list. That would benefit from a virtual interim. It is possible to do Again, haven't done it in some time, but it's certainly possible based on that backlog, and that's something that Paul I would coordinate with with with r and Kathleen. I think that's it. Michael Okay. So with that at the end of the meeting, thanks everybody for coming. And Let's make into birth care."
  }
]
