[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "good afternoon everyone this is AI ppm might be performance metrics oh no it\u0027s not IP performance metrics anymore we actually had a conversation about that about a year ago now in type II performance measurement it\u0027s actually correct on the slides I\u0027m Brian criminal co-chair polychaete are you gonna comment on the name Matt thank you sir if you intend to be an IP PM you\u0027re in the right place if you don\u0027t intend to be an IP p.m. you\u0027re gonna learn some stuff today so I\u0027m Brian criminal I\u0027m Paulie Oh Jeff Pilson training could not be here with us um no well this is an IETF working for meaning you say here can and will be used as a IETF contribution if you don\u0027t know what that means have a look at documents here next we have an agenda it\u0027s extremely full I don\u0027t think we\u0027re going to get to all of the things on our lightning talk to you they\u0027re gonna look at the status on some of the documents that are heading out we\u0027re gonna talk a little bit about um next steps for IOM then some updates on these are the ITU liaisons I guess alwal I will keep us up to date on how he\u0027s been talking to himself I think because you\u0027re you\u0027re both sides of that liaison a very trip right oh no okay oh okay cool excellent um talk about advanced route metrics the multi altmark then we\u0027ll go into the iom content section of today\u0027s agenda we have a few individual drops that have had list discussions so we\u0027re gonna go ahead and give them some you Jenda as well so stamp option TLV is actually quite a lot of discussion and is basically ready it was already he call for adoption is though yeah I know right we have to figure out that yeah exactly great um screen team of s rpm and then the postcard kilometer II stuff which I understand there was also some hackathon activity on the postcard telemetry as well then we have our our lightning talk queue as I said there are more here than will fit but if we go fast then all of them and if we don\u0027t go fast they will not or apologies to those at the end of this queue um so let\u0027s talk about status updates we published 8545 we sent the registry drops to the iesg it actually turns out that um I am the I there was a miscommunication on that one the on the Shepherd for one of them and the Shepherd statement is incomplete he sends the iesg anyway but I will fix that this week but those should go through relatively quickly and it was cool I was actually I copied these slides from the last time that we had a meeting and it said that - I\u0027m peeing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:24",
    "text": "was in miss Ref and it\u0027s still in this rough um so yeah we\u0027re done with it but no nothing to support there was clear support for adoption on the list for stamp from TLV there was a discussion about some changes there requested will these be addressed in the IETF I ppm zero zero on Gregor you here or is someone else who is a author of that document here okay so we will note yeah we will we will note that we as chairs would prefer to see the resolution of that discussion in is your zero Rev of that so let that be minute do we have if we get no takers for this we do okay excellent hi and javis cards and everything perfect so I am I think we\u0027ve done some really really good work on this so so Frank when did this come in this was a little over a year ago right that\u0027s over a year ago oh you want me to skip the slide okay perfect um I think personally and also as chair this was a good idea I think we got a really good on this is what sort of Crosse area contribution in the IETF and cross your review in the IETF is supposed to look like I mean this came from a different community came in here we got you know good feedback good discussion um there are a few other sort of like options to add on here that data the data model graft is basically done um then as we discussed a lot at our meeting in Prague the next set of documents a lot of them focused on encapsulation headers um the question that I want to ask from the chair is so bringing eilean and I ppm got um a lot of sort of measurement focused and transport focused eyes on it I think this was a very good thing is this room the right place to get the right eyes on the in caps drafts so with respect to the ipv6 destination option I think the answer is yes um we have had a good cooperation with the six men working group which is so we do the work here and and there\u0027s review in six-man in the past for measurement related destination options headers so let\u0027s do that again for the other ones I think we really do opinion and I want to I want to open the discussion up a little bit to see if there are other opinions on this that for each of these documents we need to make sure that the right people are in the room to understand the nuances of of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:24",
    "text": "whether you know this encapsulation is the way that it should be and there are people in line Danaher so I\u0027m a little concerned with the broadness of these encapsulations okay I know so we know about the ipv6 yep that makes sense I am a little worried that this is going to try to cover every possible cancellation including some UDP encapsulations where questionable whether or not you can even do that participant yeah I assume that\u0027s our visa so what is the scope of these encapsulation every kind of so there\u0027s the set of documents there\u0027s the set of documents that have been written so that\u0027s the when I say these in calculations I mean the documents that exist and so there was a discussion for example on an ipv4 option which is II I don\u0027t think that\u0027s going to happen let\u0027s put it that way that\u0027s the non-pejorative way to say that is I don\u0027t think that\u0027s going to happen um there was discussion about an ether type or about using a next header field there\u0027s all of these so they\u0027re the encapsulation of documents it\u0027s great so I think it\u0027s clear for ipv6 maybe it\u0027s right before that would be a separate discussion but how do you determine where the work is if everywhere yeah all right so so so what I\u0027m hearing is at least feedback in this room that we think there might be too many of them and we need to focus on a few it is that kind of is that a good paraphrase and we might need to focus on a few face subsets of them I like the ones that we are it\u0027s completely separate from so the assumption is you should be able to take that apply it in two different places some a little bit more perspective on the whole thing so we did it a couple model or the data fields from the encapsulation for that very purpose to allow for different speeds on all the things getting put into one over the other carrier protocol the whole thing is contribution drilling right you know we calmly say you would on this and then nobody waits on this and it\u0027s all a key priority I think that\u0027s more useful to decide so I think we have we\u0027re going on and multiple working groups were there is a national home for that particular in caption encapsulation to happen I think the best example was Ennis age was relatively straightforward and as age got picked up in SFC yeah what\u0027s the status of that graph right now so I think that\u0027s a good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:28",
    "text": "example there is work on SR that happens in spring there is work on MPLS that happens in MPLS there is work on gen√®ve that kind of happens in em do three at the pace 2003 and but I still believe that it\u0027s useful even though there is kind of peering working routes that we need one place because otherwise you end up with 3x planing the case to these other working groups especially if they\u0027re fresh and new - to - I um is technology despite the fact I think that we\u0027ve done the shopping tour so many times so if we can keep a handle and have kind of a home for the thing step well I um related and I ppm and then go for Peoria be used with the various working groups in case they are not we focused and willing to go and pick some things up then I\u0027d much welcome that and this also a way where you can go and then inspire your level of priority by people come into a common place it\u0027s set off you need to go on Sheppard well we just pretty act pretty much how to have what have this chicken like Germans call it or herding cats like in English I like the headless chicken face just imagine the picture I think then it\u0027s much harder to go hurt the cats if you don\u0027t even have a common place where all the cats come at it can I ask a question how many run cats do we have to hurt I mean so the so v6 is here yeah because I have a very cool we\u0027ll talk yeah I don\u0027t I do think that we only have a a to answer a question around two things so maybe it\u0027s less of a hard question that we think yeah maybe leave an area director I just want to add one point because like every working group has a charter and some of the working groups I tread it to do their own extension and they own a no other work we have such extensions so we have to like look what\u0027s in their chart as well not only wasn\u0027t the Charter and individual note on what something you said I think this is going around and explaining it every time to all the people over and over again that\u0027s you actually that\u0027s actually a positive thing because you explain it to those people who want to use it right if you\u0027re working on this protocol and they need to understand it you have to do it anyway good point I think the comment was more towards stuff that doesn\u0027t have a natural or so certain things don\u0027t have a natural like this either type thing yeah it\u0027s hard to go and find the right place for it if you have a have the right place for something then well I think we both with the exception of six-man maybe we have all the people pick it up that thought like yeah here is the whole I think the problem doesn\u0027t we exist where we have a real working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:30",
    "text": "group let us focus on the extensions I think it\u0027s more the problem where we don\u0027t have so I would I would submit that would be either tight specifically the right people to make the determination about how to do that or definitely not in this room um however let me make a suggestion and see if this works for future you know for president encapsulations where we don\u0027t know where there\u0027s a home and future encapsulations that people might be interested in I think I ppm is a place to discuss those and dispatch them out to the place they need to go okay so let\u0027s do that and so of course we\u0027ll want to hear you know more in your talk Frank but I think the one of the proposals I was going to make that we can think on while we\u0027re listening to all of this is you know definitely have a slot E\u0026I ppm in which we kind of get the update of the status of all depth Nations but I think we\u0027ve definitely seen load-in lightning talks or in other talks of individual presentations for given encapsulations for which I think the content we don\u0027t have the experts in the room to really know whether or not this is the right direction so I think having updates of summaries of how these are all progressing how we can dispatch how we can help is very productive but we we may want to consider like when we get requests for a lightning talk of here\u0027s a new encapsulation say this should instead be folded into the update of how we\u0027re expanding our encapsulations throughout that yes all right I think when you\u0027re done with that one so we will go on to liaison updates Alvie is on roundups sorry hello everybody hello everybody hello everybody so I\u0027m trying to make this as exciting as possible that\u0027s that\u0027s for sure so let\u0027s just jump ahead that\u0027s a picture from the Calgary Stampede so here\u0027s the progress to harmonize on a metric of IP layer capacity really on the maximum IPR capacity at ITT study group 12 we have sort of moved their end-to-end performance and specification recommendation by 1540 down the approval line with about 39 I guess it\u0027s about 39 new pages something like that the lab and field testing is complete field tests with many different access types confirm the lab results that we\u0027ve been doing for about a year now so we\u0027ve still got some speed bumps comments to resolve but we\u0027re on the way to do that so in the etsy Technical Committee on speech and multimedia transmission quality stq they\u0027ve are telling us that they\u0027ve approved their revised technical specification on high-speed Internet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:31",
    "text": "kpi\u0027s and that\u0027s so that ones have done for maximum IP you air capacity that\u0027s going to help us get those other comments resolved in fact so that\u0027s a good thing I\u0027m not really working in BBF but I\u0027ve had some informal discussions as I mentioned here at the bottom but they sent us a liaison here in IP p.m. on their quality of experience delivered basically three items that are of interest to folks here who measure performance QED the application performance that they are performance that\u0027s done and of course they\u0027ve got IP where performance testing it\u0027s based on stamp and Greg mirskiy is working with them diligently there so the informal discussions I\u0027ve had kindly set up by Dave cynic rope I\u0027ve encouraged taking up the work on IP layer capacity and I\u0027m gonna fly around Europe in September trying to get that started so we\u0027ll see how that goes and so let\u0027s see we have the opportunity to discuss and possibly join the hardened organization this week it seems like we\u0027ve got about three three and a half maybe let\u0027s say three and a half legs of a four legged table in harmonizing on IP layer capacity and a planned side meeting this week to discuss both the draft and the liaison rep I so that\u0027s it I wrap I\u0027ve rounded it all up oh you can\u0027t read routing more than a ppm capcity capcity yeah why is it why they say that it\u0027s it\u0027s because it started out to be a draft where we helped a trivia people learn about capital cities okay the real story is Mike Mike Mikey board and missus characters and Al didn\u0027t see it is that a typo in the link or is not yeah right now it\u0027s a typo in the draft and now I don\u0027t have to cover this during my draft time I\u0027m gonna put up another zero zero or a capacity is spelled correctly and then I\u0027ll go to work on the cap city one where which helps to tribute people okay excellent thank you thank you two questions for alumnus going once going twice next up we have al Martin oh okay ah Nora thank you so no update to the draft but lots of good comments thank you Frank partners let\u0027s go let\u0027s say we got some terminology problems the terminology for nodes in the path was defined in our framework RFC host is a computer capable of IP communications it includes routers that\u0027s not bad but wait a router is a host that facilitates network where communication between hosts and forwarding packets and now it sounds like a router something special in the middle then 8,200 which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:31",
    "text": "you know is the bits of the original v6 document says a host is not a router but but the definitions not paths specific so you know we got some context thing going on here and and in the mail like I said to Frank and as a result of our discussions in the hallway then Cerf used to describe a router as a PC with a graduate student wrapped around it I\u0027m thank you to vent for giving me a chance to get a laugh there is there\u0027s a lot of commonality there with our host definition so in any case let\u0027s let\u0027s look at this today nodes in the path can be a coherent compute environment so virtualized within the computer all right so we got some options I put them on the list feel free to jump all over that for option a retain host add a new node term and definition so we you know keep 20 through 30 as is a node is any network function on the path capable of IP alert communication includes the 23 30 hosts on the other hand we could revise host and use the word node in a general way a node on the path possessing a coherent compute environment capable of IP layer communication it also includes RFC 23 33 23 30 hosts and option C is the one you suggest on the list or now really quickly and creatively yet the Mike any any preferences for these a B or keep looking out see think I think the easy fix that let\u0027s move from host to node and see that we at least can align with well what 8200 says and the more moderate understanding physical like just invent some new nomenclature and at some point I think you need to do at 23:30 this I didn\u0027t really and I asked around quite a bit before us writing an email I didn\u0027t find a terminology document for the ITF I think that\u0027s the bigger problem where things like a note host router are really clearly defined and what they do and what they don\u0027t do but otherwise I think some of the 8200 six men mess that happened from a discussion perspective it\u0027s irrelevant if you just referred to twenty to thirty soon so I was getting to say the more you talk the more work you\u0027re volunteering to do so so stay up there for what these good be is good okay okay yep as somebody who is supposed to care the RFC series as a whole twenty three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:33",
    "text": "thirty long story Sarah banks for loops yeah twenty three thirty says one thing 8200 says another however your next slide so resolving at this point to me you have a problem because if you\u0027re suggesting to redefine it and then go back through every IRC that has host in it no I\u0027d be surprised you\u0027re suggesting so if you\u0027re not going to do that and I think you need the awesomest if you\u0027re going to use hosts then to find what you mean as host for your draft yeah I\u0027m kind of think node is clean and I really cringed when I read the word computer there in this day and age you know it didn\u0027t bother me 1998 but it does now so it sounds like C is um drop hosts say node yeah yeah yeah yeah okay all right can someone please drop that in the minutes and we\u0027ll and we\u0027ll think about see very good um huh let\u0027s see yeah I\u0027m probably out of time right two more minutes cool okay so let\u0027s see yeah we have to do some work here to align the traceroute style methods with the hybrid methods the hybrid methods are much more reliable ways in that almost everything is a cooperating host in the in the tracing path with with the trace route that that\u0027s not always the case so we\u0027ll seek ways to align this I kind of think that some there\u0027s some qualification of the statements in the section you know like the one I\u0027ve quoted here they need to be qualified - this is traceroute only kind of problem something like that and then 53:38 is our XML expression of traceroute output basically route output and would be good to at least get all the requirements for an update I agree with that Frank it would be better if we had an updated data model as an IETF yang model that\u0027s even more wonderful show of hands of who would like to work on that okay but we\u0027re gonna make that we\u0027re gonna make that definitely different from the path that this draft is on we\u0027ll assemble their requirements the best we can and hopefully others will put that together at some future time maybe even these offer authors when they can find a minute so the next steps are the working group weighs in on these key questions we\u0027ve got a we\u0027ve got to leave some time for the list on ABC and that includes the questions in the texts are easy to find there\u0027s some more areas for development there and footer today foot footer gave me his comments I\u0027ve read them footer I\u0027ve got the response conjured in my mind there\u0027s things we can do there I like that you jumped right on this and actually did more work this morning after we talked that was great I appreciate it thanks so much so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "so both the reviewers from last time checked in and actually did the reviews reminders help folks this is what I\u0027ve learned I\u0027m hoping for a working group last call on this by 106 and co-authors if you\u0027re out there please help al please help out do the stuff that has been proposed here thank you very much any other questions are good questions good so this seems to be this needs to be progressing well so um yeah hopefully we\u0027ll be done with this in Singapore Singapore let\u0027s we\u0027re going next yes that\u0027s right good thank you alright multi point art alt mark I\u0027m just gonna everybody this is an update about the multi point at mark tuft we are at zero to version this is just a recap about what is the motor motivation for this work we started from the base our FSC 8321 that presented the point that is valid for point-to-point flows and there is only one limitation that if it works for point-to-point flows or multicast flows we have to select the v identification fields but we want to introduce a methodology that can be more general so we want to define the identification field without any constraint in this way we can monitor for example an entire network or multi-point flow so in this way but we have to define a new approach for the measurement the multi-point network can be split into a cluster partition and cluster partition can be combined in different ways and this allow a more flexible and intelligent we can say performance measurement the draft details also the algorithm for this cluster partition so we call as I say intelligent performance management approach because we call the network zooming in a controller can calibrate and manage the performance measurement it can start without examining in depth our network but so in the beginning we can monitor just the full network from the input from the ingress to the egress point and in case of problem so if we experimented some packet rows or the delay is two Ike we can reconfigure the network we can configure the clusters and we can make a ditalion edit more detailed analysis and we can act in two ways or we can change change the traffic filters or we can activate you measurement points within our networks this is just an example for packet rolls so at the beginning we can activate the counters only at the edge so the number "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:33",
    "text": "of ingress packet and numbers egress packets is equal so packet loss is zero the delay is less than necessary value store everything is okay we don\u0027t need to activate measurement points in the middle it\u0027s okay if we have some packet loss in our network we have to deepen our analysis we can configure the clustered partitions for example in this network if we apply the algorithm that we have also described during the last meetings we find we can find four clusters with four colors and if we analyze and we if we calculate the packet loss for each cluster we see that for the red one we can experiment at the part so we can focus the analysis for the red clusters and in that case we apply more specific traffic filter to understand the part that is experimented the loss so in this case and so we are able to identify the fault so this is just an example on how do you apply this intelligent approach so in general is a complete performance measurement framework so this can be applied not only for packet loss so we can calculate no Tony Parker\u0027s procrastinate or a combination of clusters but also the delay measurement apply to this kind of measurement and the but for the delay measurement we have two different ways to worked the first the first one is about the multi-point at basis measurement in this case we can calculate the mean delay that is representative for all the multi-point path or of our clusters okay we can argue if that min delay can be useful or not but there is also the second way that is for single packet basis measurement in this way in this case we cannot use the double marking as in the base their FEC 8321 but we can use the hashing approach but they should approach some of us can can know that has some problems because if you have to identify the ashing values the essence import can had some difficulties but if you can correlate help with correlations in terms of space with the topological point of view by using the clusters and in terms of time by using the alternate marking that creates the block of packets we can easily make a correlation between the symbols also in a multi point environment so that\u0027s why we say it is a complete frame so we analyze all the alternatives we have to measure packet loss to measure delay for multi point paths for single single packet analysis so what are the change from the zero one version we make some consideration about the overall architecture because we do need to have a centralized management to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:33",
    "text": "may to do some this intelligent approach and we are the doors on some use cases for example as the one the path selection can be done also by analyzing the cluster behaviors and this can help also traffic visualization and topology mapping okay I think the next steps for in the opinion of the routers the document content is quite stable so let\u0027s we can value if we can consider the path for reference so that\u0027s there\u0027s a question on jabbered from Ignacio how are the clusters found the dragony presents an example but to do that in a distributed fashion is not trivial at all exclamation point there is the algorithms and unfortunately I don\u0027t have the slide but there are several algorithm that unfortunately there is a paper that will be published in this year probably in September and that will details additional methodologies to find a classic partition in the draft we defined also be simple algorithms that we can identify the sub networks in the net so the basic color it means that we have to identify the cluster and the group of nodes where the packet rows property is still valid the packet rows property means that the numbers of packets in going is equal to the numbers of packets outgoing of the that is the basic way and there are different algorithm n\u0027t this this partition yeah yeah I will not of course the reference to the paper but is not public for now so but in the next revision I will do of course is in the plan okay so your easy beginning the path there come RFC can you give these out a little bit more what you mean there so it sounds like you\u0027ve got feedback that there\u0027s some missing detail come in the next Rev are there are other things that you expect to put in the document before we could go for a working group last call I think the reference to this paper it will be important if we wind is that it published in an ethically networking when in September so yeah 2023 um yeah not that bad okay so that that\u0027s the reference yeah no great yo you wanted to be published before he had the reference to it because yeah even as an even as an informative reference if it\u0027s informative referenced we think nobody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:33",
    "text": "can get to that\u0027s not useful okay good okay so we\u0027ll bring this back I guess quickly next time and then talking about moving a fort excellent okay Justin good afternoon everyone so as you\u0027re married you know my talk will focus on the invitation of IOM for ipv6 inside the Linux kernel so how does it look like well the very first design goal was obviously to have zero a location during packet processing so everything needed for REM is allocated at node registration so for instance we allocate IOM names basis data and related extension errors to be a capsulated with IOM adores inside it and much more we also took advantage of the current parsing of extension headers of the kernel by improving it and adding some useful info that would allow us to ease and fast and decapsulation process for that we store for instance the total padding size of an extension header and during iron bar Singh we also saw offsets and size of each IOM blocks so each option to be removed obviously and at the bottom of the slide you can see a graphical representation of the data structure we\u0027ve used to represent an extension header so here it\u0027s generic it can either be a PI up or a destination option and this one is stored at each i/o interface which must encapsulate IOM headers and you can also see some data offsets in red and actually when a node encapsulate I am headers it also needs to insert its IOM data and that\u0027s a way to further note to remember what option is and where it needs to insert the data corresponding to that option so what we got from measurements well those are still early results but we can already learn a lot from them at the top we can see the topology we have used for measurements and actually for measurements that I will show you we have just used a portion of this topology so forget about what\u0027s outside and the cloud so just focus on what\u0027s inside iron domain and the reason for that is that we want it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "to be compliant with the RFC h200 which says that you cannot invite insert or remove extension headers so this way we generate an a-cup to the traffic I am traffic inside the I am doing on the same node at the Bahamas so for the left graph you can see a comparison between Tropos measured the first one is for a vanilla kernel so without touching anything the second one is for a patch kernel with I am so this is just a patch that is compiled but totally passive and the last one is for a patch criminal with IOM this time with notes at all registered so it\u0027s really the last one that is interesting and we can come the first one with the last one and I\u0027m sure you can see a small drop of around seven percent and this is not that huge especially when you know that this may not be the most realistic case indeed in this case we insert iron bidders into any packets we see so by definition of IOM I think so that\u0027s my point I think that you should not insert at Iometer stats any packet so that\u0027s why I wanted to measure another thing the impact of percentage of insertion and you can see on the bottom right graph that between zero and twenty percent of insertion you are still quite you\u0027re still quite good performance then it starts dropping until fifty percent and then it\u0027s remained stable until one hundred percent so I think that\u0027s my advice to any operators that would implement this and configure this and my advice would be to limit the percentage effect or insertion to at maximum too many persons I think I\u0027m gonna skip this one because I think I\u0027m gonna run out of time so this one is discussion all of you and the first op topic is actually the opaque state snapshot option we had a lot of discussion with Frank and shmita and also a term during the hackathon and I think we all agree on the fact that something needs to be changed on that option it status it\u0027s quite unclear especially when you are in a pre-allocated context because all it does is actually break the idea of provocation so I get the whole point of this option but I think they need some discussion and improvement to end up with something very good the second one is more I just wanted your opinion on that would you see some interests of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:33",
    "text": "having the incremental trace mode enabled inside the kernel because my point is I don\u0027t worry thing that will be good because this is not a performance solution at all in the kernel and I don\u0027t think that operators would use it by knowing that and so yeah I just wanted your opinion on that and the last one is about the new version that we will just merge on the repository which will be totally compliant with the RFC and one of the solution was to use ipv6 Turner encapsulation but this solution also brings a lot of let\u0027s call them some small issues and the first one is that you could you may have a leak of iom data so let\u0027s think about a scenario when you have overlapping channels and for instance I\u0027m a node and I\u0027m configured to the capsulate iron namespace to for instance but this namespace is also encapsulate it in other one so it is in a inner header and I\u0027m I cannot see that so I will just let it go and this is almost the same idea for the second point the scenario is with that nested to nose so again I\u0027m a node and I\u0027m configure to insert my data if I see the IMS - and again I can\u0027t see it because it\u0027s inside so I will not insert my data I just forward it so someone told me that for the second point it\u0027s totally fair because who knows actually like that so you could just ignore what\u0027s inside and I tend to agree because it\u0027s easier for me and it makes life easier but I think you should take into account that operators may want to configure such a configuration such ever sorry I have such a configuration and they still wanted to have each node inserted their their data so I think again there is room for discussion on that point and the last one actually when you encapsulate IOM headers well you have to know what the destination is so right now this is a static configuration but it would be nice to have something based on the routing so I was thinking at first as something like a signaling protocol like LTP or something like that I think they are certainly exist other easier solutions without reinventing the wheel so I\u0027ll be happy to share on the mailing list or here or whatever on those important points thank you you can find the code as a patch for the color on this repo and feel free to drop me an email if you have any question this one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:41",
    "text": "so how come there is almost no difference between 50% and hundred hundred percent well actually yeah it\u0027s a bit surprising but we have no real explanation because actually what was the difference between the two it\u0027s you insert one of our two packets and the other you insert in every packet so I guess the difference is not that that big giving in term of delay so the increase in the package yeah okay so maybe you\u0027re talking about those I kept it for as a backup so when you increase the trace actually the kernel will reallocate some space so that\u0027s why you see some drop during the process how many bytes did you add for each packets actually the best the common base case was a single IO namespace a single trace option and from that we increase the number of choice option inside a single namespace or we increase the number of namespace it depends on the use case repository and there is a paper related to that so yeah monitors are on the mailing list you can send me an email about the incremental option in my opinion it is very useful the incremental Romania yes so quite a few of the switches and routers out there that implement IOM have an easier time doing this using the incremental trace option okay that\u0027s useful in my thing okay we\u0027re cutting a line out for a baton what song tell us earlier point I would second that incremental is useful for the very reason if you really have I am started on the host and then really connected a fabric that does incremental maybe you don\u0027t want to go into that mode where you mixing incremental and pre-allocate it in the very same packet which is what otherwise probably do so I do believe that there is a use for doing from that goal yeah the host despite the fact that well if you just have forwarding hosts that are all software an old kernel based yeah well even argue whether that\u0027s useful I think the mixture libraries as easy as well the other point on kind of blaming opaque we\u0027ve done all that for awhile I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:43",
    "text": "think there is a way to go and at least contain the problem and containing the problem might be using the profile idea that tell came up with where you say well if I know that my nodes are not inputting random data but I can go on three to find that and I could do the length project and calculations upfront so loads of the variety that you can dream of doesn\u0027t really happen and we ought to be people drop offs and a final ask for you to comment on so when you did that for the 5:12 kernel what\u0027s your kind could you shed some light on what you\u0027re gonna go do with getting that into master luxury yeah if anything so we plan to have a package for newer versions and try to make it go upstream at one point we do need an option number in order to get upstream this is the same problem that pathum to you is seeing today I took min there is something called early I Anna in a location that might be applicable here it\u0027s probably more appropriate for the authors of the draft but that might be something we could get this actually into deployment all right thank you very much um Frank can you come on up okay so given is an update I thought about kind of doing the story that you were allowed to do earlier on so we saw that the strip which is a journey apparently three years ago and I think together we came quite a long way so it\u0027s the fine print but that\u0027s the Shetty old lab the quote-unquote data draft went through so we started in Berlin and in ITF 96 and we became after doing the shopping tour across multiple working groups and trading ops AWG and whatever even the the discussion whether we need a working group for the work we finally arrived and I think that\u0027s also thanks to the white knight like I call her the our dear ID Miriam who came up with a suggestion that will hand it in i PRI ppm and I think that was a really good idea so we landed in AI ppm and we\u0027ve been progressing since then and we\u0027ve been having regular updates so this the whole thing went through a journey I think it got significally "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:44",
    "text": "richer wider broader better over the course of the last two years and I don\u0027t want to be one side everything but I think if anybody wants to go and reuse the story I created a slide for you 104 was in Prague but otherwise I love that graphic I was like you went to Bangkok twice copy and paste it\u0027s not my friend I\u0027m sorry could you fix that it\u0027s a Google Doc we just changed the location anyway so where are we at a very high level kind of what is the ecosystem looking like and I\u0027m sorry if not every single draft is up there but I think those were the ones that kind of got discussed quite a bit from a data fields perspective and the flag stuff let\u0027s table that for a minute we\u0027ll discuss that in detail we had a recent mailing list discussion on immediate export postcard I think we have a good resolution for that which means get rid of the flag that we have for immediate export and write a new draft that is dedicated for postcard slash immediate export that just defines that one new option to go and handle that case so we just need to see the document like future reference but I think there is at least resolution on the way forward or we want to go would do would this one then we\u0027ve been seeing quite a bit of kind of background work the documents been progressing we\u0027ve not seen a lot of discussion around it but we have a yang document for IOM it\u0027s better for a while and it\u0027s also been updated and kind of fix has been worked into that so maybe I think at some point maybe now we should go and ask the question do we want to go and adopt it chance work I mentioned that at the mic earlier on around the profile work I think is a little early I think it needs more maturing so I think we we can go probably have a couple of iterations there we had the discussion around data export earlier on and ops iwg and I think the conclusion was that there wasn\u0027t one but that people want more peer reviews on the document and then decide whether we really want to go and land it in ops AWG or here or and that\u0027s what what higness brought up as an option is as an ad sponsor document so that this is an even need working group adoption for that specific case so that\u0027s another thing but the baseline is more peer review because well it hasn\u0027t had enough reviews so far I think that was the conclusion from the disc discussion so far so it was a forward reference from the meeting that we had 104 in Bangkok right but where we discussed like ops aw geez should go and take a look whether they want to pick it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:44",
    "text": "up the conclusion was go and read the document and send mail to the list which brings me to the area that we touched on earlier on we\u0027re just this encapsulation laundry list we talked to six men post the last I ppm meeting the the feet was back was good and saying well go and progress it and come back frequently and give us an update on where you are but we\u0027re happy that you do the work because we had precedents earlier on that it worked out well that kind of cooperation and Brian mentioned that earlier on between six men and and I ppm skipping the next one for a for a bit of a minute and Sh SFC working group gen√®ve and vo three segments routings being presented if we\u0027re lucky in spring and also in in six-man I think mpls I think is progressing in MPLS we excellent GPE doesn\u0027t have a home and ITF so we\u0027ll probably go and publish that as an individual RFC at some point once stable which brings us back to the question that I\u0027m always asked and that question that I\u0027m always asked it doesn\u0027t really have a good answer and you mentioned that earlier on is what do we do with V 4 V 4 options well we kind of test that the water people didn\u0027t like it including you and I understand why sorry we need other people sorry about the other people that we don\u0027t know there is restrictions that are pretty hard around that which means like mmm problem space constraints that you have with options may may render it only nichy for certain cases there is work to go and solve the problem a completely different way Tom mentioned not here about earlier on in other venues the work on putting extension headers into v4 hmm yeah might solve our problem but we need something for v4 and the best current thing is a kludge which means you slap on eight unnecessary bytes so that you can slap on the IOM header which is the either typing capsulation that would also go and cater for other protocols like gen√®ve so that same option we can go there plus well the discussion that we had is we can only get an either type if isg asks through a liaison to it-- I Triple E for an either type and that requires that we have a working group adopt the document that asks for that either type so there is a little bit of a wrong way ahead of us and question is do we want to go and take that effort I have not seen too "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:44",
    "text": "many lovers of GRE but well it\u0027s the best acceptable option that I know of that is somewhat fitting into IETF overall general rules the other option would be to go and see what else we can go do about before and well that\u0027s extension headers for before we can ask for an i/o and protocol type to go IP protocol type to go and just well have one-size-fits-all probably harder than either type so I think we need ideas and maybe here at the mic but also maybe broader on the list on how to solve the v4 question in a somewhat reasonable way let me pause here Tom so before we get into that question I do want to point out that Tunis and VX LAN or UDP encapsulations correct so the idea is we\u0027re gonna go into unity payload and do the IOM or is it something else I\u0027d okay it\u0027s outside so it\u0027s not so it\u0027s it\u0027s we\u0027re than deviates so with VX LAN we chained that in with either type or in in geni if you chain that in with either type or you used the gen√®ve capability to carry Tod so those options exists right so you could do it natively in Geneva you want to and if you\u0027re identifying in the network to need can your change in you to be a load it\u0027s unfortunately a bad thing yeah we know that those things we had to come up with this crazy magic number so I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s what these are intended there\u0027s may not be feasible in the long run and then so yes I didn\u0027t mention the idea I gave before extension headers that is possible if the choice was between that and creating a new IP protocol number I would say use the existing one I think that\u0027s actually going to be a lower part and I\u0027m a little confused about the ether type but this would be hop-by-hop options but and I peed before hopping up often [Music] yeah - Brian Trammell as an individual√≠s rising we say you do that that seems right to video um yeah so actually I came up here to say like so the the problem here is that what you want is the lowest overhead way to wedge io am header it would be for packet for things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:44",
    "text": "that are going to be underneath inning before correct yep and and a path that is quote unquote workable and the ITF that\u0027s very important office between number of bytes on the wire a number ye a number of years working for meetings great so I hate to say this but I think the thing that\u0027s there is GRE sorry to say so Jerry in V for hmm is I mean weeks are thing what is the easiest way to get a thing that\u0027s if you\u0027re kind of identified in before it it\u0027s dirty right yeah but it\u0027s the most hated option that we have right its way but because it\u0027s the only one great but you\u0027re already like the difficulty of doing this for the new protocol number is that you\u0027re not gonna get a protocol number because nobody believes them anymore and there aren\u0027t that many of them right like so they are both useless and rare therefore you can\u0027t have one but we already have one for for the hop-by-hop options header that is undefined in v4 space I don\u0027t necessarily one strike you can take that to six man but why six and I have more coffee on the six man work on me for extensions I mean right so you\u0027re gonna do this anyway right stuff using using v6 extension headers in the court yeah yeah Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom will do the work for you yeah and you he\u0027ll just have a kernel right so that\u0027s the thing if there\u0027s enough traction so I didn\u0027t post the ipv4 extension headers and it was quite interesting to see the feedback primary concern is oh we\u0027re improving ipv4 and I thought we were sunsetting it and yet the operators we operated came back and said I still have customer as an ipv4 so we have to keep improving it so it may be less of a technical question anymore Tom just for information now where are you doing the work on this because I wasn\u0027t clear from the document which group per year doing yeah I posted it a 6-man I\u0027ll kind of cop√°n that they could take that but it\u0027s not really I give you sense right so the next question and then the problem is there\u0027s no format so it was really no and so I didn\u0027t pursue it too much it\u0027d be a big amount of discussion related but if this is what we\u0027re suggesting to kind of tied together to this solution we wouldn\u0027t need to know like where\u0027s where is that going to be worked on yeah because I don\u0027t think it would be here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:48",
    "text": "yeah so that\u0027s not really GRE then we\u0027re actually doing it yeah you use GRE to put a new either type that\u0027s basically the GRE was using cheeri to abuse the GRE header to read an ether type into an ipv4 header in the same way that we are using abusing the protocol number for a header to wedge up and extend v6 extension header in the v4 the same kind of abuse but-but-but-but yes but your I mean your design is a hell of a lot cleaner by the way I\u0027m gonna cut the line on this one and it\u0027s a time check we have like four or five minutes left to discuss this and and I still have the update to the draft yeah yeah so let\u0027s let\u0027s try to make these quick I\u0027ve been away for four years I\u0027ve met athis been away for four years and so I\u0027m losing a little bit contacts are you aware of an old protocol called AI PMP it died on the vine probably in this working group probably about 15 years ago so I\u0027m not even aware of it so it it died on the pressure personal in the process error because it accidentally forked and then the two communities couldn\u0027t agree I p.m. he was in many resembled was in many ways but one of the things that they did that was kind of a hack Noel seis extremely was a hack is they used magic numbers in the payload so the hardware could find the measurement object and the rule was that the measurement object enemas or checksum so you can have a measurement object had its own the offset checksum and the hardware guy said yeah they can do this in ships no problem you can put a measurement measure commit the application has to know that the data isn\u0027t real but you can make do measurements then with streams that mimic arbitrary other applications find the cookie announced of whatever it is updated on the fly going through the hardware correct the checksum at the end and send it on its act however nobody can detect that you\u0027re doing the measurement necessarily I mean you can do it install the weights and so on that\u0027s bunch of advantages I just did to point out we also have will work on ipv6 encapsulation for Iowa it is also listed in the agenda the last one and basically if we want to put the Iowa data in the hopper hoc the options header and there may be a risk especially for the incremental tracing mode so the data may become very large so there is a risk risk to push working Heather out of the passing window on the chip so our proposal is to separate at the instruction part and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:49",
    "text": "data part and to place the data part after the rockin Heather in another maybe I will six metadata yeah just drive you\u0027ll be profile I wanted from for the one suggestion I think you know that\u0027s the IO hammer time you\u0027re very pretty sure I hope that later we can confine our discussion on that you capsulation because they use a to market time you think we can focus on the IOM Heather it\u0027s a sale because I will father like this one I know that I\u0027m chars also several the options how I\u0027m Heather and also maybe the tre I don\u0027t like this one so you can we I think I mean I cannot afford us on my walk I came more time for the Iowa had yourself so then we can maybe how you give independent second in Casablanca - cut me in Catalan Jack as I see excitement to change IP before from the chairs maybe consider the options this is the only backward compatible solution it\u0027s like I wish you luck in in getting that passed the is gee I\u0027ll bet against it but I wish you luck okay alright so I think as I said like it needs to be something that is workable within the balance of the entire lol let me go and progress to the two documents that are I think core and center and that\u0027s kind of the core document that we started the journey on three years ago line that I PBM is working on since two years if you look at the key updates we\u0027ve done a little bit of editorial cleanup and we\u0027ve done text specific to the flags where we really have beyond that was the only piece of discussion that we had in Prague that well fly were not really not everybody was comfortable with what the flags are how they were used and the likes and we\u0027ve seen even on immediate export that we already came to a new conclusion that a resolution for that and that we moved that out and found that stuff out and to dedicate a document why because we wanted to go on separate the stuff that is in discussion from the stuff that is really stable so that we can really settle the stuff that is really stable which is the date arrived so there\u0027s a couple of FICA I post that are fakes and I\u0027ve did done in that update one clarification well.tell actually have to get the patch one clarification on how the namespaces are used because there was some confusion we got from the discussion that said well some people interpreter that from discussions that I had with people implementing the thing like if I use namespace one I have to go and follow the document if I use a different name space number I can do whatever I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:49",
    "text": "want that wasn\u0027t the idea of a namespace the namespace idea was that it gives you more context to the fields that we have defined that\u0027s what we\u0027re saying now right so I think that makes obvious sense but just making sure that it\u0027s not misinterpreted the other thing is the the document split so all the sections that touched flags have been farmed out to tells new document so whenever something Flags was discussed so flags that are real flags like active immediate export and then loop back they were found out from a document perspective excluding the flags now well there weren\u0027t really updates and it\u0027s relatively stable and there has been very few additional proposals I think the big last real big debate on the whole data fields document was the introduction of namespace and that\u0027s kind of now money many moons ago so from my perspective and nothing multiple people voiced the very same opinion it\u0027s ready for working glue blast coal and maybe we can go and home on that if that\u0027s ok but there is a question earlier I do have a suggestion on the field so on the on the flags or the data fields infuse okay I captured this my lunch I I just find their cell checks on complementor fuel in the fuel I think it a bit fuel is use the two indicator that the data need to be shipped out to the controller or collector so it\u0027s kind of confused people - there\u0027s the masturbate is used to indicate the sister took some compliment so I\u0027m not I\u0027m not to say this isn\u0027t not useful I just would say maybe we need to use it another bit for example in the flag to indicate there\u0027s just some commitment so he won\u0027t the second indication that the checksum complement is there yeah I think some compliments should be being flag words or other places are not in the data Fuchs because I think that the data feels is to indicate what kind of data need to be captured and finally shipped out to that okay maybe you can go and send an email to the list on that one so that we can go yesterday on the list so I think the argument is not is we\u0027re not really no data but it\u0027s kind of operational data to help the overall thing work and hence you want to go and use it in a slightly different way than the operational data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:49",
    "text": "okay I can I think it\u0027s a different type of data that we insert given that it\u0027s just to help operations sorry tell I think tell was though the one who brought that option in yeah same thing at this point we define the flags as the separate field which in terms of the timeline may be defined later than actually publishing so we want to separate any functionality which is related to actually parsing the earth from the flags which different thing so I think at this point it\u0027s pretty clear that the bitmap is used for specifying which fields are in the option and that\u0027s why in my opinion it\u0027s more convenient to have a checksum complement indication in the Robert I have a couple comments on this one near peg data is somewhat awkward a variable variable length field right in the middle of this bit field so we probably would think about restructuring that another interesting thing was for some of the fields there\u0027s both like a shorter field and a white field what happens if both of those are set so it kind of gets this interesting dilemma so you could actually have both fields present for like an identifier what we\u0027ve been meaning how to resolve that but probably a more interesting issue the number of bits is limited I think there were 24 and about half of them are used what happens when we run out of bits is there is there a plan we\u0027ll cross that bridge when we come to it I think you need to last it to then going yeah extent right sure but that\u0027s the bridge that once we come to it I think it\u0027s not only going to put a sign yeah well I think that we can at least I think we need to go and address that maybe even in the document yes your earlier comment so if you can take that as feedback from the hackathon onto the list yeah I\u0027ll be super helpful okay so Frank I talked to you about that today a little bit vector which where the bit is presenting the data right what\u0027s your part on making it a bit mask so the the question on whether we use a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:51",
    "text": "bit vector or a number thing has been discussed multiple times there is benefits and downsides to the whole thing I think a couple of moons back we settled on that people wanted the bit vector mainly for the reason that we\u0027re and you see that I think so far we are struggling to define what what tell has with the profiles we are struggling to understand which combinations are actually meaningful from real-world deployments so what I would say is let\u0027s go with the bit vector for now until we have more operational experience and then we can revisit that maybe in a version 2 of Io a.m. and see well those are the typical combinations that we need and then we can encode them in a more compact way right now I don\u0027t know whether anybody would feel like especially in the ITF as an authoritative source to say those are the combinations that people will need and those are the ones that they can\u0027t use and I think that\u0027s the big problem right now with choosing which is why a couple of moons ago we arrived at well let\u0027s stay with a bit field and I don\u0027t really think that revisiting things that we\u0027ve done so far especially on the current revision makes too much sense it\u0027s just like extending a runway and I\u0027m not sure whether we would arrive at a different conclusion given that we have too many operational insights and very happy that we see more and more implementations popping up now thanks to Justin for instance but yeah well once we have the insight let\u0027s go and revisit it in the current one well we we currently go with a bit field I think that\u0027s the the solution at hana we have well or carve out some space that is left for a number I think we can go and think of something hybrid right so there isn\u0027t it\u0027s left that we can go and repurpose for a profile reference for instance whatever you want to go and use data types are so very depending on the customer that creating a common profile is just next impossible and given that we have limited its the enumeration of all the data types yeah well I think we escaped office Oh peg snapshot but that\u0027s not a great expect escape path because that\u0027s kind of free format for everybody in our to parse so yeah good point so can I three more minutes on flex or maybe could can we help yeah this is important but we\u0027re going to lighting talk time so if you\u0027re in the end of that sorry "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:52",
    "text": "just yeah right with just with regard to this document so I think the plan would be let\u0027s go through this feedback we have from the hackathon and we\u0027ll expect another Rev or at least yep a good thorough this discussion on you know will will get another rough pose in when once we have these things in and then maybe we can go and initiate something on the mailing list let me ask a different question so this is the list of the first and second hackathon that we got input from second second yeah um each one of these we get one or two things out of it it\u0027s it sounds like hopefully I think there is plans for having another one in Singapore right yes do we want if do we want to hold off on initiating working group last call until we can incorporate the outcome of Singapore or not like it\u0027s a trade off rate there\u0027s always been yet another yeah yeah great no but I mean like so it\u0027s some point you\u0027re at diminishing returns do you believe that we\u0027re a diminishing returns yet on the improvement that we can make to the specification through learning things at hackathons hard question right so we got a shitload of comments from the last Hecate we got three good comments from this hackathon yes that\u0027s what Tom voice why now okay III can\u0027t predict the future rate right so I didn\u0027t notice that you put a slide up that said working your close call and a whole bunch people came up and had comments right like so a really good way to get people to say things is just a threatening a working group last call um but this discussion when this has been has been um sort of like long and ongoing enough that we haven\u0027t had to threaten the working group last call in order to get people to stand up and say things um he yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s Tom do you have something on this point great I would much prefer that we have a couple of router vendors with confrontation might be difficult bringing Rachel implementation but to your point you know it\u0027s not just hackathon right what is the implementation experience is there any deployment experience do we have validation my comments you know they may be superficial and it\u0027s always the case well if we say maybe we should rearrange the field slightly maybe maybe not depending if somebody\u0027s already deployed that yeah I\u0027ve heard some I think the comments yeah I\u0027ve heard some I\u0027ve heard some maybe if you rearrange things but I\u0027ve also heard some feedback that\u0027s a little bit more a little bit more substantial with respect to like sort of editorial stuff and things that were hard to figure out right like so we\u0027re not looking to change the the implementations as much as we are looking to improve the specification to improve the chances that it is easy to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:53",
    "text": "build an interoperable implementations only reading this back before we zoom is working applause all right like that\u0027s the that\u0027s the bargain I\u0027m trying to set here like so and usually usually the way that these things sort of work out is that the the last call button gets pushed so that the last call and at the next meeting if things go very very quickly then we can do it before then but um yeah so it seems like a plan let\u0027s get the Commons on the list and try to go and get an update on in all this timeframe so that it\u0027s not like dry again yeah so the other document is the more active thing that we had in the last meeting was around flags so the new draft was really the stuff that was not really feeling like completely settled by the group in Prague and so all of that is in the flags draft now it\u0027s ready to go and split the conversation so what is in there it\u0027s three flags it\u0027s the loopback flag and the loop flag flag existed from the very beginning it\u0027s a flag to go and do what I would call efficient traceroute it\u0027s mentioned and refer to Inara and else document so that you can go and compare that to the classic methods like Paris twice rot or even a really classic twice route and what you can go with do with hybrid methods just tells you at every single hop like go and send a copy back to the originator and the originator has to be the encapsulation encapsulating notify um so there\u0027s a couple of constrains around there so not to on go go weld on that so he can go and detect the power of a single round trip the second thing is the immediate export flag and I mentioned that that there\u0027s been active discussions on the lists on that particular one around well not using that flag but using an IO am option and borrowing text from the the PBG draft which is as many things in there including how we could go do things with our um and we have a dedicated document Oh Matt and then well if you have an option you don\u0027t need the flag anymore and the third one is the active flag which is a bit of a helper flag I would call it it\u0027s not active in the sense like I want you to do something with this it\u0027s active in in the sense of 77 99 where you say well this is traffic that is used for probing active measurements so the UDP probe that you guys have done at the hackathon including IOM could have put the active flag on so that from an operational perspective that traffic would have been easier to detect for whatever reason right so the idea was there and we found "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:55",
    "text": "that out in a particular document in order to have more debate so greco should consider the impact of using a loopback flag in inter-domain there sorry say again in which scenarios into the main you have multiple domains good question I don\u0027t think so because I OEM is a proto main feature Percy for IOM de Maya and well multiple io am domains together mmm not sure so as I said like it\u0027s been built very with a very specific use guys and Petra brought that to us where he said well I have my UDP ping er I won\u0027t drop it detection can we do something by combining the UDP ping er with IO am and well we built that and we both as a prototype we socialized that at that\u0027s invited in IETF and then it kind of entered the draft so that\u0027s how it worked and it\u0027s been useful for those cases we might need to go and mossad and further in order to make it really applicable across everybody cents your company you\u0027d appreciate with Pro we send it all the way to the destination we want it to come back all the notes still about their information and we just get one reply packet so I\u0027m wondering so if I and I think it posted about having that neck conic reflection but for the loop back is there a real use case for this that\u0027s been identified yeah that\u0027s what that was to work with better raft on on you D beeping probe or whatever because the thing is like if you\u0027re if you\u0027re probing doesn\u0027t make it to be very end so you have probes configured a new data center all over on all the application ports and then well you see a probe breaking what do you do for that particular probe that broke you\u0027re attaching iom information to that and that means if you do that borrow from both side bidirectionally all of these probes will travel to the point where you have the broken device or the broken link so you can with one round-trip from both ends of you correlate that or information you can relatively rapidly figure out where things start went wrong faster than with classic right route right that was the use guys designed a really nice amplification attack yeah yeah you could call it the amplification [Laughter] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:05",
    "text": "security so we had some discussion about it obviously it exists so people need to know about it but it can\u0027t be prevented it\u0027s a tool it\u0027s a hammer or you can kill somebody with a hammer implications the point is that it can be used by malicious attack so you\u0027re creating to that too easy create the complication attack it\u0027s not that be careful what you do when you\u0027re traveling you\u0027re creating the to the attackers will laugh because they will really what your network using well if you allow the attacker to send you traffic with IOM yes well that\u0027s that\u0027s probably likely traffic from outside your domain we\u0027ll be happy to get any comments about section yeah we can we can bite said the names of the flags and how much how many blinky warnings they should have on them I like calling it the amplifications like actually you\u0027re the ad you can just get up and start talking I\u0027m gonna take that question in a second I mean I\u0027m gonna handle this one and then I\u0027m gonna go back to that okay sorry yeah all right mmm good so adopters working group document uh I don\u0027t really think we need to go through the whole rigmarole of doing a two-week call I will make the following statement uh from the chair we intend to adopt this as a working group document we intend to give you an instruction to send us a ITF zero zero vision of this in a week or two um and if anybody hat will make will announce that on the list and if anybody has a problem with it um and should have a really good reason why you have a problem with it we will consider really good reasons where you might have a problem call this one or this one without immediate export your your your intending to remove immediate order and put it into the next row of data right no no I\u0027m intending to well there\u0027s gonna be a new document or an immediate export yes so just defines a particular option so this one whatever new data data okay okay so the instruction would be the next revision of this document according to the plan of the authors should be an IETF IP DM document and if anybody has a problem with that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:05",
    "text": "and you can yell at the chairs and have a good reason because like they\u0027re doing the whole like actually I mean this this is its its content from organ group document correct it\u0027s fine alright I have a question from the chair now I have another question from the chair before that is does it make sense from a specification readability standpoint for the content in this document to be in a separate standards track RFC from the rest of the IOM data model document like this was separated out to make the discussion easier um do you want the text back in one doc or do you want two Doc\u0027s that you don\u0027t have the answer now well I have excellent it was in one document great it wasn\u0027t one document for a reason because that\u0027s easier to do ask why so that people have to go in here to discuss wait this is why it separated out do you want to hold the publication of the data model to pull this back in after everything is as I said I don\u0027t want to go in to hold that the publication of the data graph forever if the model is like we get 0/0 out on the flags and we can go and converge on that relatively quickly maybe we can go and fold it back in we\u0027re in the timeframe that the data draft kind of also comes into revision oh seven I would be in favor of that as opposed to having two documents yeah because I think if you have everything in one place and you dump that on one person and you\u0027ll do it their way and then yes all the references in one document it\u0027s always better than having two documents can people also read two documents as absolutely H so this slight preference but a not a big water okay we can we can revisit that later now let us go back to your list of documents to verify this is also an ad question are there any of these for which we do not have a plan moving forward [Music] then again so beside any security and application I checked and whatever so like I had some general concerns that if you use flags to instruct the intermediate router to do something specific that\u0027s like be going to scope of what you initially he was intending to do right so that\u0027s like for me it would be a different protocol so I am seeing a little bit more discussion needed yeah there\u0027s many reasons to separate it out because one of the outcomes might be as we adopt this as a working your document is like yeah we don\u0027t like excellent feedback cool let me stay out there already is ready for working with us Cole I don\u0027t think any interpretation should be published before the data\u0027s published looking at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:07",
    "text": "the speed of what SFC is that right now yeah I\u0027m not worried well so they won\u0027t so I mean just as a matter of how clusters work in the arts the editor process they won\u0027t be publishes RFC\u0027s because there\u0027s gonna be a normative reference and we\u0027ll go in a Miss Wright State it will be more difficult for the is heater reviews is like hey encapsulate this thing what things we\u0027re not going to tell you yeah that is it that is a bit of a risk exactly are there any documents here especially in the encapsulation so I think everything else is fine are there any documents your kneecaps elations that it is not clear from y\u0027all commence meeting what the next step is yeah yes even that can be either tight and I think the outcome of the discussion was do we want it and if we want it where should we take it so not IP p.m. she gets suresh 280 sponsor sorry somebody actively working on there yeah okay because the only concern that I always say Mercedes 400 is that you guess often less review than other documents which have a home in working group great so I\u0027m I have to look at this during the see like was it only presented in IPA p.m. or was discussed in any other work no I think we discussed that in men vo3 as well so we\u0027ve been doing a little bit of a shopping tour with that and so it originated from the original grn cap and that people said you want an either type if you want an either type please go to - I totally only ones because it\u0027s very unlikely that he getting more than one because there\u0027s multiple protocols that would benefit from one and that evolved to Brian riding the who\u0027s now retired he has shit loads of time so so that we can you know take off it seems to me that like just as a nother discussion venue if there are different people in a ruminant area that would be another place where you could get feedback on this not there like you know about that int area says yeah please okay sounds good thank you okay so that\u0027s a plan for everything man excellent thank you we are now 27 minutes be on time yeah okay yep so stamp extensions Greg take it away "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:09",
    "text": "extensions to simple two-way active measurement protocol thank you - Rakesh and Tehran for comments suggestions and help to improve the document okay so what extensions we take what we refer as base stamp packet format for the sender it\u0027s well known sequence number time stamp and 30 updates of betting to make it symmetrical and then we append TVs until these can be enclosed some extensions we consider the mandatory optional experimental and vendor private use so that to create appropriate I am a registry extra padding TV to be able to create packets of different size vocation TV it was a very good discussion so location till the idea is that reflector copies from the received packet the source MAC address source IP address and destination IP address destination port or source port and send it back to the sender so the sender can monitor what is it an ultimate router for their reflector and that we get the contribution from Hendrick a Syrian from their experience in using teal and white in the field so they find that it\u0027s a very useful feature again it\u0027s not a testing it\u0027s a monitoring time stamp TV well because of the way high time stamp is obtained and what synchronization is used it effects clearly the accuracy of the time stamp and understanding the accuracy of the time stamp we believe it\u0027s useful so there is a time stamp for that till you for that course of service still V based primarily for the case of backhaul wireless backhaul when the provider operator has multiple services on the same path then the services are differentiated they use a different class of service and traversing different domains sometimes are these services this markings cost of service Marcos has to be remapped and because it\u0027s a very manual labor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:13",
    "text": "sometimes humans do make errors and their behavior that it exhibits itself dem asserts itself is that how services packets get dropped while there are whole service of example 3G keeps going so the idea of this is that sender can request the reflector to return back DCP marking and is what received more so it can instruct reflector to use the specified DHCP value for the reflected packet so in this way in a very short sequence of test packets operator can verify how their mapping in the network if it works properly of their reserves miss configuration direct measurement TV so it\u0027s a pretty simple there a mechanism of stamp is to do synthetic Ross measurement but there is an interest in doing sometimes direct measurement or basically collecting the counters of their certain flow of the packets that are in profile of the flow definition of it in profile is up to their operator this is a pretty standard it\u0027s well known from 1731 or 63 74 so the next step we have some outstanding changes that we want to make based on our discussion with Rakesh the question was that to change the naming of this field either to ITU terminology 1731 or 263 74 so that would be good to have input from the working group but it\u0027s more editorial and as you know we\u0027re you know are we still in production all or we already closed adoption form it is is adopting its adopted take okay so I appreciate all your feedback support that helped us to go over this hump yes couple of comments one is about this direct loss measurement here we and if we make it hard where if you can make it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:13",
    "text": "the first year we like that that VM message then its location is known and we know where the offset is easy yes yeah thank you for this comment because what we intend to do further is to really go over each Tod and be more conservative and strict about how this should be utilized in 27 busy plus there is a byte offset so I the issue was that if responder its stamp and query years of course this year we extensive respondent doesn\u0027t and you get a message I the way I understood the respondent make it it might think that 28 and 29 5 is supposed to tell you the size of the padding afterwards and in this case is zero zero but that it is there is one more bite so then it may not be able to process it so I shared that comment on the list okay so a new seller the sender is t1 or sender is stamp right but in in this case the responder just will respond because their server octet are 0 so he can respond might be with a symmetric packet but basically would not try to parse TVs because he will look at them as a pairing well okay I need to read yes so your question maybe I need to read if I have a question I\u0027ll go to follow up but the idea was that why we made this field must be zeroed so that it indicates that you you have you don\u0027t have a server art facility you must copy it because things that but it\u0027s actually one so that is ok so I always notice thank you for the comments all right thank you very much next up yes my gosh good afternoon everyone my name is Mukesh Gandhi and I\u0027m presenting the draft on Sal p.m. using tea ramp on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:18",
    "text": "behalf of the authors listed so agenda is basically to have a look at requirements and scope the probe query and response messages there is a need for a CMP and next steps so the requirement is to for the delay in last measurement for segment routing for links and into end SR policies for both SR MPLS NS a v6 data pins we\u0027re not using the control channel signaling so eliminate signaling as well as state 4 on the egress node that\u0027s the spirit of SR there is requirement for a CMP as well as a support for direct mode loss measurement the scope is using the t vamp and user configure the UDP ports and both authenticated and unauthenticated modes so probe query messages are basically the message is defined in the 5350 say I want the TR messages for delay there is a UDP port being is configured for the unauthenticated north and saying where there is another port for authenticated more so this is to make the hardware implementation easier so there is a new alum message format define it\u0027s a fixed message very similar to the DM message has fixed offsets for the counters and another UDP port is configured to indicate that this is an alum message for SL v6 there is a solid header with n function OTP for the delay measurement OB for LM for SR MPLS there is a label stack for response so this if you depending on if you\u0027re doing one way measurement to a measurement although quick measurements responses sent bit differently for two-way the drop defines written party LV using the mechanisms that Greg is extending for EC mp4s our policy for ipv4 ipv6 one twenty seven eight destination addresses being swept for SR MPLS its entropy label or SL v6 there is a flow label in SRS that we can use definitely stamp message format can be used it\u0027s very similar to t1 there is different padding size embassy size but that can be user configure and definitely the the TL we are also applicable as a matter of fact we are defining written party LV for to a measurement so we welcome your comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:18",
    "text": "and suggestions we do have implementations for this and we are requesting a spring working group adoption for this one is this in parallel with the RFC 67 34.9 for Springer\u0027s is replace that yeah so we have prioritized t1 over the 60 to 70 for although both concepts are similar you will use UDP port to 1000 for the 66 94 and 11000 for TM but there is more interest from customers 40 than 60 systolic or signaling the caiman 62 standing for say whether whether or not you wanted unidirectional or bi-directional because it looks like some of the TVs in here look like 7876 RC something the uro type stuff for the so for 6670 for the return path is 7876 for Fatima is basically the same t1 match so query will be over and the response could be t1 so we\u0027re not using 7876 for this t1 vs IBM so that\u0027s the extension we are adding that if it\u0027s a two-way measurement then we are defining a TLV return path TLV so that we expect the responder to send the response back on this path so is it a request for adoption in spring that happened this no so we couldn\u0027t get slot for this in swing this time so we\u0027ll okay I mean you can also ask them to an adoption call by email if you want to do it between now and Singapore right yes is the one thing that I would ask as chair is that you keep us up to date at least on the mailing list as as that progresses through and as that goes to working across call and spring we should also do a work in your process call here to make sure that no the changes that happen in spring would make it not work well I would I can\u0027t even imagine what that would be but um just given given how this works and how the integration seems pretty clean but we want to make sure that people had a chance to have a last look at it before it goes through and working group last call so yeah otherwise excellent you wish you luck yeah thank you for this luck and thanks for coming over to give us a heads up on this so postcard base telemetry turn "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:22",
    "text": "from Malawi I would like to introduce poster carpenter Elementary we discussed a lot in this working group about the passport baster telemetry that is the IOM the existing high and here this this drafter is going to describe the postcard based eternity we described a lot about the trade-offs including the performance impact the encapsulation and overhead and security and the configuration correlation and Java location indication we also describe the postcards determine solutions and the implementation considerations basically we introduced the to PvP mode why is called the PBM that means we will configure the telemetry data in each node and we will use a marking bits in use a packet to trigger the postcard the Daedric spot and this is a fried onion and the implemented in this in the enhanced eliminate marking draft and Joseph well later describe this and the other mode is the called PBT I in this mode we will insert instruction into the user packet and every node will read the instruction and the captured data and ship out data directory to the collector and I want me as now discussing on how to apply this mode um here we propose a PPT I said I one often will we discuss on upgrading in the side making a mental list to define a PPT is a harm option and we close this discussion on floor ID and sequence number by make them optional optional and we also agreed on the foreign option header as the starting point and we also do the hack song and two three implements this option in physical devices here\u0027s an extended discussion actions to indicate how to use them the data this is also from a suggestion this is also a suggestion from many lists and we here\u0027s the initial proposal we propose to allocate five bit from the flag for actions and we propose this four bits right now which are motivated from from IFA and our own panic as draft and here there\u0027s other related action "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:28",
    "text": "described in the hi peewee 600 a.m. until we draft like the sender telemetry packet and the sender ICMP I think it should in this architecture it should not be an action but it could be a new data type an extra step we will spin out the new I option as a dedicated draft and this draft I think we have were discussed and we asked for the working group adoption sorry documentation for the action action I I don\u0027t think so because right now the PBT I only can contains a fixed fixed lens had fuel so I\u0027m not sure you fruit there\u0027s me the fourth recommendation the flags are coming from we right now we think we well first three in this chapter we reuse the flags described in I want aft define some new flats yeah we can consider yes sorry I thought you had a question um sorry um yeah yes so let\u0027s see how long this question takes yeah so just with regards to moving forward with this earlier we were mentioning that some of the content that\u0027s currently in flags we were going to be taking out and it\u0027s actually we\u0027ve come to a acknowledgement that we\u0027re gonna do some postcard approach check thing so I got the impression earlier that we\u0027re going to have a new draft for doing that is that something that this draft will be merged with what what is the what is the end goal for our postcard end Flags story here maybe Frank you want to comment in turn what we need is a definition of the new I um option that describes immediate explore right right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:29",
    "text": "and I think where we can go and borrow some of especially like the people I think two slides back that data format will borrow that and with the existing tax coming needed explore what I see from this documents perspective I think it was mostly like a wigwam scattering exercise because it loaned from other documents or other protocols that are not even ICAO flying and so well I think it\u0027s it\u0027s done its job yep all right I\u0027m coming to answer your question I believe your comments before should apply to that as well like if we took the flux out of the data yep while we eventually especially before would like to have one Shirley yes English it would pass as well take it how the document is a flags yes yes as far as how we end up publishing things that\u0027s fine sir so well what I would like to see is what we go forward for what we want to adopt as work is one document on this approach and ideally get the authors from both working together on that document so I guess are you guys okay with doing that sure I at another understand maybe my intention is to firstly adopt this approach document this this document and also we will spin out the I wan option part and this spin out this and the way we\u0027re walkways Frank and other people walk home that\u0027s new okay so I guess it\u0027s a little unclear to me why we would necessarily need a separate approach document that\u0027s different from the instance of how we\u0027re going to be using that approach no I am I see no way this approach you use is to describe the postcard is a territory and we described her a lot including the the trade-offs are different the most and also its include PBT PBT and moment which will be used to buy other jobs right yeah I think ideally we would want to see that text because folded into the thing that we\u0027re discussing as the PTI draft and if we eventually need to fold the other one in as well that\u0027d be great but I think we do want to see collaboration here and a single draft as a guide especially when we\u0027re you know looking at the process of how we do working group documents like there\u0027s some overhead for that so having like a consolidated way to focus on this together not having like a document for the theory of it and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:30",
    "text": "implementation would be great so I think you\u0027re suggesting is to see how we split for system in this chapter and how to well essentially you know the authors of this document and the authors of the flags and the IOM work essentially like work together on what will be proposed as a working group document to cover this together you know I think to get to Cameron\u0027s question I think there is an aspect that applies still IP p.m. and that\u0027s the only a mess back there might be a broader thing on how you want to go and do the provisioning piece and texture of the packets for export and also the requirements discussion that you have because that\u0027s all come with related to int as opposed to what we\u0027re doing here that might even go somewhere else right right don\u0027t need to know about that one but I\u0027m pretty sure that we need one for life necessary I think in my point is the or our point from the chair it\u0027s very hot Mike is that the document that we pull the document that we pull for IO am for IP p.m. to if we make the adoption call on should talk about the data model um should talk about the mechanisms driving the data model and talk about the mechanisms for deriving measurement information from the data model so there should be a single document that takes some of the stuff from the flag stuff that\u0027s coming out of the current one and from this document we don\u0027t care who the authors are but we would like to see collaboration um that would be proposed like do is you\u0027re a new 0-0 individual and then propose that for adoption as opposed to propose and this ralphing the other from government and we\u0027ll mix them up later cos it\u0027s just kind of messy okay thank you much i we are now out of time I apologize to all of the lightning talk people come see us in Singapore as a note to the chairs for the minutes the next time that um Frank Casas for 20 minutes for IOM we will not believe him that was our oversight but I think we had excellent discussion today we got through a lot of stuff if you didn\u0027t have all the wonderful input for no working group yeah excellent and to those if you have stuff that you wanted to share your light and talk again apologies that we can get to yes please do send a note to the mailing list about what you\u0027re gonna share share the link to your slides they are all posted so we don\u0027t to lose that good content thank you blue sheets if you did not sign blue sheets please do I\u0027ll put your hands up before come up to the front come on up to the front for the blue sheets at this point Thank You Robin Frank we didn\u0027t adopt it yet keep "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:39",
    "text": "doing it forward it\u0027ll happen here because it does it time "
  }
]