[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "to give a chance for people to arrive with a bit of latency and with this we\u0027ll be looking for minutes takers is there a candidate to help us take some minutes the etherpad is indicated on this page it\u0027s also indicating the next page it would be really cool that you guys can attend the etherpad and takes some notes in particular you\u0027re going to talk to the mic then please make sure that the minutes capture correctly what you\u0027re going to say and with this so do we have a summary a ping on the minutes nice thank you very much do we have JavaScript or a small room I\u0027m not sure anybody going to Jaber okay you can okay thank you meeting so this is 60s this is a usual ITF meeting so we go by all the rules of the ATF and there\u0027s a list of best practices but processes or response at cetera and in particular we\u0027ve got the best practices applying to IPR so if you\u0027re aware of IPR on anything that\u0027s going to be discussed today please tell the room or let the shares know by at the end of the meeting with this remember you are being filmed the movie will be played on YouTube thousands and hundreds of people will vision visualize it so be very smart and so will publish the minutes and the recording you need to sign the blue sheets we are kind of going to pass them along in a few minutes please go online on the ether pad and contribute two minutes taking and validating the minutes and you\u0027ll find the usual links about the 60s activities on this page and with this we can start the agenda bashing so basically we\u0027re going to tell you where we are with this working group our progress the status of documents and related documents not a working row so it goes to the milestones and then we\u0027ll decide what we do next well we\u0027ll have ten minutes on the status of the architecture then go to minimal security that\u0027s gonna be Manisha then we\u0027ll have Michael if he joins he sent us some slides is not there yet and we\u0027ll have Jay go remotely so Jay go did you I see you so I hope you could set up your mythical correctly then we have okay okay that\u0027s nice we can hear you already so that that\u0027s good and then we have tanks fighting face same thing did you could you set up your mythical correctly thanks very well I hope it works and maybe the most unusual and final "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "discussion we\u0027ll have today is what\u0027s next because as we will see we have pretty much concluded all the work items for which we were chartered which kind of means that either we reach out or we just sell out so that\u0027s going to be the discussion so if you have items that you want to discuss in this working group in the future then it\u0027s it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good time to speak now okay and with this a little bit of status for the twelve on the other working groups so as you know six teachers spent more time actually pushing work another working group that doing individual work inside this working group we we mostly worked around an architecture and open source implementations and interrupt tests and to make all those things happen then we had a number of dependencies and a number of working groups so there is a list of documents that we actually promoted in other working groups so in 6lo we\u0027ve got all the fragmentation work so there are two documents they are both passed well groups last call and we started getting feedback from the affero on the minimum fragment so there was a new recipient of the minimum fragment so those two draft are basically on in a good shape for to go through iesg and they are in suresh carrying health we also promote you to work on 6lowpan neighbor discovery so that\u0027s one of them is now RFC eight five four five and then we\u0027ve got the address protection in the backbone router which is an T proxy so also all this work is in good shape and and continuing through the is G we have this new draft that was proposed to completely get rid of multicast enable discovery using software registrar\u0027s this is new job submission it\u0027s it\u0027s related to the other three so that\u0027s why it\u0027s listed here but I don\u0027t know what\u0027s going to happen with it it\u0027s not needed in the sixty\u0027s architecture it\u0027s beyond six dish it\u0027s on the backbone and then we\u0027ve got the dead lifetime which is also going through ESG at four we\u0027ve been promoting the Sdn model and that\u0027s where the Dow projection goes there\u0027s also this work on a leaf which would not be aware of ripple so using only eight five four five to signal the presence of the leaf to the repo rotting and mapping that into repo so that\u0027s going well both documents have progressed I would say immensely about the since the last IETF there were several rounds of each of those documents and roll is planning to push quite heavily on the unaware leaf because many documents are actually dependent on that one including the sixties architecture by the way and enrollment priority I think the the chairs have been asking for reviews on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "that one to get through the age what to do through the work of Wisconsin and then we\u0027ve get an email with the constraint voucher and I hope that Michael could tell us about it but it\u0027s not there did you have knows about the constraint voucher okay so maybe Michael when he speaks on the dead net the design team work on zero touch will be able to give us news on the constraint voucher because it\u0027s really meet under zero touch is is the constraint voucher so here is the milestones that we had I mean two of them Suresh ah still waiting for accept but I mean considering that it\u0027s just about submitting the draft to ASG and that the draft have actually been submitted to Zermatt so the the dt securities you\u0027re attached is mostly empty of its contents we kept it just to keep the working group informed about the progress and virtual work so i guess it will never be submitted to ASG or it will be moved to animal or place that will take care of it and so there we go the only item that\u0027s left is evaluate the work of progress and talk about which are trying or completing the work basically yes it\u0027s not a way of saying yes and with this we moved to the first presentation and that\u0027s me actually on the architecture I will move to the mic so the 60s architecture may be viewed as maybe the most encompassing work at six dish because that\u0027s really what shows what we wanted to achieve in this working group and why we pushed so many work items in different working groups and and the overall picture that we wanted to build so there are a number of components that we are done at home unlike the minimal security MSF etc a six six P protocol and then a good number of work items which actually done outside the working group but the architecture is the document that puts all things in perspective and also indicates direction we want to take for new work which may not happen in 60s at all such as row for instance this buff that we had on Wednesday so there are really two pieces in one document and we could have done to document some people said we should but we have a very high-level architecture that goes into the domain components and articulates them and then we\u0027ve got a deeper dive "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "into some components which are most specific - six - and - Tom being explained for instance there is this concept of a track that is now inherited by the work at Rome so we actually well we went through the ASU review so that we had for review since the last IETF that Eric maja Roman and in German with Benjamin obviously we we went through a deep review of the security section but not only Benjamin has been going very slowly through the whole document and thanks to Manish Shah and you actually thank you we actually did a lot of work on the security section and expanded quite a bit so that\u0027s that\u0027s one of the big changes we also extended the discussion of the various forms of diversity that are viable ratios which are not necessarily the pre off that of and in that net so we would clarify that we expanded on the joint process as well and the minimal thing and I insisted that we are well and not annamaria but that we are too many references and they were not really well classified into normative and non normative with the understanding that this is not a Star Trek document this is a an informational track but there is still a meaning for normative and that meaning is if you need to understand the reference to understand this document then the reference is normative right so it\u0027s not normalization if you like it it\u0027s really like you can\u0027t understand this document without understanding the other if that\u0027s the case then the reference is normative otherwise just you can avoid reading it it\u0027s informative just for your own reading if you like - so we actually had to move and shuffle around the references to clarify what\u0027s normative the problem with that is by putting more documents into normative we also created a good number of miss Roth miss Roffe being those documents which are normative reference to euros but are not yet roc so you cannot publish the architecture before all of the mistress are also published as RFC and there are now like six or seven miss rafts including the raw document that I showed including minimum security including MSF etc all those documents are now normative references and we have to wait for those to be RFC before the architecture is RFC so the RFC is the architecture is really the document that will close the door of all the work that has been done at 6:00 - when this is either IFC then all the work we\u0027ve done is there as well and that also makes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "sure that the architecture is completely compatible and represents well the work which is done in the other document even if they change will have to change the architecture - to represent that correctly and that\u0027s pretty much I had to say about the architecture so we have any question okay so so if you\u0027re interested in the work that we try to start with row by W reliable variable Wireless you can see a row as being the next phase four six dish but focusing on the writing aspect of it that\u0027s why it\u0027s it\u0027s done in the writing area and most besides precisely on the operation of a sixties track now row is not specific to sixty shot or it seemed to be abstract to be completely lay off free operation but it\u0027s near it\u0027s certainly from the the designs that we\u0027ve done for tracks and all this capability to have this direct acyclic graph to a certain destination and make intelligent forwarding decision there on this track so row we\u0027ll be focusing on that if the group forms and that\u0027s pretty much it for now Thank You Posca [Music] okay so I will talk about the minimum security document which was renamed to be the constraint drawing protocol for six days after one is three review the current statuses the document is in third it\u0027s in thirteenth version that the IRG reviews have been received as well as up there and sec their reviews and general the goal of this presentation is essentially to go through the main changes in twelve and thirteen and discuss the issues raised during the IRT reviews so after the last meeting we discussed some text prohibiting the mixing of different levels of what entity authentication tags this was incorporated in twelve we added a new subsection is an ASN replay attack after the last meeting discussions and we also added some mandatory support for extended tokens at JRC as was received a comment offline from Klaus Harkin from core we received obviously two to two reviews be a pre I usually use one of their and one secretary review there were mostly needs one concerned one added a new requirement that concerns three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:08",
    "text": "commissioning of a device where we added the requirement that the pressure key must be changed in case the device is recommission and during the Secretary will these were most units that we received I usually reviews we got four discusses and three no objections and one year setting from Suresh the so the comb in the main goal of the presentation today will be to go through the open issues that we have on in is G from is G reviews one issue that was brought up was related to the you of well-known UI for code rip and essentially as it stands for you was the / /j URI as a URI we use /j yeah I think Adam had a suggestion like co-op column colon slash slash six to stop a slash dot well-known slash a was this addition so so that there was a couple of parallel discussions on it essentially we in during the drawing phase we it was deemed okay that we can use /j as long as we use sixty sharp ax as the well-known host name the problem was the after the join exchanged the parameter updates part of the protocol where sixty sharper was missing well-known Yura host so what we did what we proposed is the resolution is to use sixty sharper also in that case as well so that it is isolated from all other uses of slash stray yeah this is the proposal so proposal make it but it is also one of his comments which said like how do you handle subdomains he just wanted some clearer text on handling on submarines it was part of the comment but I would like to solicit she only has sex Edition as well here so this was added this was all added I mean I didn\u0027t bring it up here because it we converts them that on the list but Michael added this in the document essentially all the proposed text in the from from the male tried so this should be resolved I mean we still haven\u0027t published the version the official version of the document but it\u0027s in the working copy one comment that would receive from media in regards the parameter update response message which which is as it now stands empty the parameter this is response to the parameter update message which is a cop confirmable message and essentially we define for well for generality essentially another message that is a response but that is essentially empty that is piggybacked over over coop over coops confirmable response and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "question raised was is completely legitimate was like why define our own our own protocol message when the response is confirmable and that when so that we have an indication of reception at the sender of the parameter update message so I mean why keep it essentially and the proposes resolution is essentially to remove the parameter update response message from the protocol yeah so another issue that was oh one another comment that was received was from Benkei deck yes again so for the congestion control parts like I gonna discuss it or it likely your a greater than genius and it\u0027s done III consider it done because it was on the on the list yes yeah yeah it\u0027s it has been discussed on the list and it was incorporated in the document so I believe we are good to go there here I essentially the issue that I\u0027m going through are the issues that haven\u0027t have had their resolutions in the in the working copy of the document and no make sense now I just thought like you know you wanted to discuss like all the stuff that came up during eval because you put all the positions ends oh okay no yeah no what the proposed resolution there one is quite simple and it were starting so so it should be fine so regarding this issue that been Caidic raised it concerns the traffic analysis of quadric messages and essentially asking if we can muddle up if you can make more difficult if we can make traffic analysis more difficult what options would be available to us and Michael responded to this on the mailing list recently essentially summarizing the types of traffic that are in the network and saying that this kind of traffic is protected at layer 2 in the network and that this is pretty much all we can do about it at this point another issue is related to the use of sexy sexy exempt mechanism in 15 for standard and this was a this was a comment received bump by Bank addict he says I think we may need to say more about how JP knows the SEC isn\u0027t is in effect since that affects the critical piece of the security posture of the network and this true that in the current text we don\u0027t have the clear link between house Exantus set other than it was considered out of scope so what I propose here we had we have this join rate parameter that can be used by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:09",
    "text": "the Dre RC to enable any particular node in the network to act as a joint proxy so I I what I propose is that we link the user of the join rate parameter with the SEC exempt mechanism such that when the jrc enables a particular node to acted as a drawing proxy ii m to get set at that particular node there are given in psychic seemed is it\u0027s not per join proxy it\u0027s in in join proxy for each joining node so so you can\u0027t set it until you know who is going to be joining okay but you need a policy to yet you read the policy that you are allowing you know join but the first complexities of course coming out of the blue you don\u0027t know who do that one end so so a first message to get in will always get error because you are not allowing it but then it up layer you can see that okay check out the policy if they you know join generate generate is non zero then we allowed configuration except for that know that I\u0027m just sending a message but but it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not like for forty snow this actually for remote draw that remote node is allowed to exempted security management in Pakistan okay okay thanks for the con and I think the one the one of the problem is that when we of course after he had finished joining we want to drop the SEC X and so he we he of course doesn\u0027t send any anymore pockets in clear but some you know attacker mic\u0027d you know send packets in clear claiming to be him because and actually do some nasty said that\u0027s why you want to remove the psychics and so it that it take it dropped automatically by the Mac so we do this after certain time out then for a for a pledge or because we don\u0027t have a way of knowing at the Jaypee that the pledge joined essentially we have yes that\u0027s actually one of the comments I had earlier was that it actually would be better to for JP to know when the process is finished I like currently and it\u0027s also you know because one of the problem there is that when we sent the final response back that\u0027s actually sent in clear because we don\u0027t have that one has a hundred keys yet the problem is that the AK is coming back with using the same security level that was you know be sending so and we have to respond to we have to be able to receive that ACK which means they still have to have an SEC accept own at that point it\u0027s not transmitting that and of course he if he doesn\u0027t get it we have to retransmit and so so there\u0027s it did either be the timeout or some you know actually first time we see him sending us any encrypted message we know that he has you know received he has the keys and we can drop the SEC extent that\u0027s actually it\u0027s one optional or or I don\u0027t know what this could could it depends or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:09",
    "text": "the protocol little bit okay okay thanks so okay so to sum up essentially we enable the SEC exempt to be set when drawing rate is nonzero but we still need to process an incoming message from from each pledge before the SEC exempt is set for again for again it\u0027s not global it\u0027s yapper you know appear and the drawing rate who is something that is a good that\u0027s how about for the no global 42 note so in procs who has a global setting join rate that tells you whether it\u0027s allowing anybody to join and when he sees the first you know message he even said check except for that note that okay understood then there was an issue also raised by Bank a duck on the use of quadric max enjoin attempts parameter that appears only twice in the text and this is essentially a remnant from the time join request was a non confirmable message so as now we rely on quarter de clave declared failure to the application we simply can remove this and remove it from the text this this is the most simple resolution another common from Bank ADA considers the parameter additional info that was deemed under specified because in one there is one example given in the text that during the processing of the error message in this parameter we can include a subset of keys that were not we that were not being that could not be processed so the idea was the Tenakee compliant with link layer keystroke that is defined in the document can be included but apparently there is more text needed here to to make this to not make it under specified one other issue that was raised by bank attack is the the missing of the label of the elyda t for each message he says that he feels that it\u0027s little unusual to have a consolidate registry for Quadra parametres that are used as map labels across different messages without some indication of which map labels are valid in which messages so essentially the resolution to this should be to add a paragraph rate arising and summarizing c d dl c fragments which already indicate a bit what what parameters are valid in which quadruped objects so clarifying question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:11",
    "text": "we don\u0027t need to change the IANA section for that right we just put that somewhere else yes yes that\u0027s crackers doesn\u0027t matter try now whether this is used that message all that means as long as it\u0027s being declared yes yes that\u0027s correct so the next steps is just to incorporate this resolution that we discussed here and to publish essentially on the 14th version and to declare - I agree that essentially we have we believe we have addressed all the issues that were raised as part of the review process that\u0027s all from me many thanks Parishad do we have a question in the room to haul anything can heal famous last word on this okay many thanks many the next that\u0027s Mike on Michael is not there so J go I guess you will have at least the ten minutes you want it we are ahead of time in this meeting so yes you go can you please show up we can hear you I don\u0027t see you showing up at the cue there you go do we have a question yes I know it\u0027s more stuff and free so it\u0027s more a comment michael has a presentation in red so it may be that he\u0027s coming late thank you very much and look at movies presentation that\u0027s no problem so you go can you check if you can another HS I think I\u0027m not able to slides and someone asked me to so we all sleep in current status wait a minute are they asking to to deceive you here I cannot see they did the presentation well you showed it somewhere I cannot move the touch move it no worries just go okay then I would I think - moaning over there okay she\u0027s the mid-may over "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:11",
    "text": "here this is Diego - harmony I\u0027m going to present the the information element the calculation for six dish and join our enrollment information which is rational zero zero six and next please be brief I hope so what\u0027s the status of the of this draft we have already passed individual DLC in case we have the last call you have a one revision from Carlos Gomez waiter really thank and we are going for the version zero seven from shore revision for judges and we noticed some few typos and I covered on the interpretation of the a of the link Oh case but this checklist it\u0027s a simple it doesn\u0027t change the core of their of the draft and they do I also thank fear of about the the enlightenment or how to manage date the name of the hundred fifteen foreigner naming now and remember three sixteenths he mentioned this and for the future next slide please so whatever we have changed here it\u0027s a few filtration titles okay and subsection 1 1 pitch 1.3 it\u0027s the usage and meaning of a rotary advertisement Association we should be cleared so we clear it up okay and we close the the expressions at the closing of section 1 we have improved them and some feel description or the change also when on stage section 2 de to join how to arrange them in the order word they appear on the hospital then the cigar decoration and we can lead locally glare can be using description of the pivot which was in Austria each other should have been and fire finally has a small citation explicitly for the area of fc8 81-57 if the subtype next please just very few questions finally we are going to move to 0-7 okay after the all the comments we have received and then I expect we hope this draft will go through the ilg at the next step and that\u0027s it for for this draft happy this rough in fact has been very stable for the last versions ok only small changes and I think it\u0027s ready to move on any questions well actually actually yes you got I guess from my UT direct right the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:13",
    "text": "document is submitted to the ASG for review with idea evaluation and it\u0027s in the air in hands of Suresh again like pretty much every document okay so that\u0027s what we are just yet you know the old in literally chart and you\u0027ll get all those review okay right Thank You Johnny start based on the length of make you know roll in January as restricting January or February [Music] many thanks rush so thank you you go for staying without that this late time don\u0027t worry of your day don\u0027t even show you tomorrow already so thank you very much no question on this okay and we\u0027ll move on then and next winner is it\u0027s for pretty much thanks hey can you please join don\u0027t you think fine showing up think they can you please show on the mythical mythical Joe big suspense tada hello hear me yes thanks I press the button hope you\u0027re there can you only try thanks a please because maybe the button evacuated you instead of accepting you [Music] there we go you should be starting okay can you see the buttons to switch the slides or do you want me to switch the slight sting say I didn\u0027t see the button to switch sighs yep yeah thanks so they said update for the latest version of the MSF minimal scale function and will show the next slide base so since the last re camp meeting we have three main issues raised up the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:13",
    "text": "first rate is the rules for salaries which is pointing out to Pascal and because of the curve its version the MSF doesn\u0027t specify where the Souza\u0027s pick it up though when generating the 6pu request and so we should have to know that maintaining a candidate is helpful for this at least and know the world keep listening for the clearance of the cells and to check whether is a collision sound ourselves and then when generate the 6p request package it will pick up the cells from this cell phone so the another issues is the schedule consistency pointed out by Christine and the issue is when the mode is despaired from the network such as when the power of the south is reserved his parents will live in the parent schedule of ever without knowing the neighbor is gone that we used to have the keepalive mechanism for each node it will stand some Q line message to to the neighbor it has a sales and half before and if this icky blob is not act by his neighbor and the neighbor will be Claire declared as unreachable and and then it will stand a bit clearer to the neighbor it may be filled but it will remove the cell cell to the neighbor from its schedule so we used to have it in the previous version like 0-2 version of the master and we removed out from those trees because at the time we don\u0027t have the dynamic scheduling for the autonomous house at that time the Ottoman cell wall installed apparently in the schedule and in that sense they may because they for install one cell for our neighbors but now the MSF has dynamic scheduling so those cells could be removed the only installer wouldn\u0027t necessary so so we bring it back in the latest MSF job and the third one is we added the downstream traffic adaptation feature for the latest MSF and this is the main thing I\u0027m going to explain in details and next one please so firstly is the strategy of a downstream traffic interpretation is pretty similar to the upstream one and has two counters and the number cell use themselves elapsed and them cell use the world blood plus when the frame is received from its parents on a our Excel and themselves "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:13",
    "text": "the elapsed number will increase me will increments to win the current Salazar Excel to his parents the different is the upstream for upstream traffic it has a negotiated txl at the initial but initially there\u0027s no negotiating or excel for each node so we decided to counting the auto or excels at the beginning to start to this downstream traffic adaptation so to use them that that there is a tool there\u0027s one problem is during network a forming face those cells are used actually by its children and these parents at the same time and this CUDA caused a collision on these cells and which when the massacre is detecting the usage of the downstream traffic is actually will detect a lower value for this cell usage but after the networks formed and the traffic from his parents will transfer to the negotiate eh cells so the man-made traffic is coming from his parents which is a downstream traffic on this auto or Excel which is ideal for a downstream traffic adaptation so for the for the reason that mostly down to traffic are generated after networker is formed so we can was a SAP to this this this drawback on a theory in the network is forming face and next slide please I think they just one meter pointer is basically when the network is being formed I mean what you see there is mostly control in that data right because network is the diet and so those collisions are a lot related to these and Diu messages and we are working right now after all to minimize the chances of collisions like this by intruding introducing some some trickle mechanisms in the das so the prime should actually also be addressed at the operator at the repo layer so as to to avoid most of those collisions anyone so I mean saying is that\u0027s cool that you do this way and we are trying to limit the chances that these events during the date rock formation no that\u0027s good thanks for the information so we also implement the downstream traffic we implemented Japan I was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:14",
    "text": "opened up with an invitation and will create a pure as especially for this feature and currently had marched and we tested it through a test pad from our office building and we deploy our knows ni rooms from the building and each room we have four open Lobby so the totally thirty-six smells there and so we run this code through the thirty six mils and run in network and to control node and or enter by being we through the impurity architecture which provides a test bath and we are able to flash models and also reading the 0 output front melt which are asked to know to do some analyze about network performance and in the next slice and we the the experience that has to face first we are waiting for all knows synchronized and building networks and the figure on the right is showing the structure of the networks after the routing is established and by default there\u0027s a background upstream traffic around one packet per 30 seconds upstream transmitting and to generate a downstream traffic and we just using the ping command provides by the OS and we\u0027re paying to a one home node be 5f1 there and with a spade of one pain for two seconds is roughly once loved one packet of course offering duration and the reason why we only just paying this first hop now it is the experiment that\u0027s trying to show the crowning correctness of the MSF downstream epic adaptation and so we are recording the data such as the traffic changes which is when the pain pinkman stars wind pains ends in terms of Numb transmission per seconds and also the number of th cells including the auto txl and negotiate T Excel to see the changes of them cell according to the changes of the traffic and in the next slide was showing the result so there are four figures here and is grouped by two on the left side figure I\u0027m sorry yeah but I guess we have a question and the Trevor my name is Ryan can you go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:14",
    "text": "back to the previous slide also why did you choose there get to be a target without the children I without children I was noting tenth the thinking the idea is I won\u0027t just won\u0027t choose the first hop one I think if you have a children or nowadays it doesn\u0027t really influence the behaviors but maybe your question is a y note paying a second elope note because I think there is no different paying the note with children or not just calm it maybe it better to choose the target with at least one child like in the lesson that left most part I think mm-hmm yeah they feel pained and note because the the first time not a will respond pain Iko Iko response is actually there\u0027s no traffic into interactive with the second that the children of the first hope knows right I think they just kinda fine right in your picture you say that the target is f1 but on the text you say it\u0027s seventy one which is on the left and so the question is I\u0027m sorry yes I that\u0027s a title sorry yeah thanks for pointing out which one is a typo by the way is it so is it twenty one that I fight to target everyone is the one is target probably the okay probably here is a the I didn\u0027t fixes a typo here you can see these figures on the top is saying bf7 one yeah I think this is just a typo it doesn\u0027t influence the results so so there\u0027s a four figures here on the left the results for his de Groote and on the right side is the result for its target and for the upper figures that is showing the number of transmissions during overtime and the bottom figure is for the number of th cells over time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:15",
    "text": "there are serve things choose to see and first it is for the decorate on the bottom figures you can see is using the auto to excel as beginning to standing the pain requested to its decorate which is showing in the green lines in the figure and then it installed it to th cells to th cells to the to the terminals and the cells are removed from removed from its schedule and as well on the target mo side and you can see it installed in an additional T Excel because as beginning has a 1 T Excel there so so is a result with two at the exit there there\u0027s a there\u0027s a time for target notes you can just see it\u0027s showing there\u0027s a cerise out there which is as the right beginning its dropped two to one so I smelled ourselves faster in there Ryan here I have a question the the upper graphs are analyzed using it at all cells right the uppers the upper figure is showing the number of transmissions for all the cells for auto cell yes I think I think it would be just a comment maybe it would be a good if you analyze it per cells right instead of going for the all cells total cells how you show if only one so what do you would like to see from line is for diya total cell analysis maybe it would be nice if you just put other per cell maybe maybe many lines hmm cell analysis and just a comment yeah I show you here is trying to using this value to matching the speed of a the pinging if I summarize them together you can see the lines is actually increasing one transmission for two seconds I was trying to trying to connect to this of this lines to the actual speed of a the downstream traffic yeah that\u0027s the idea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:15",
    "text": "to show you some okay thank you yeah thank you what doesn\u0027t show here is if there were packets which were lost due to starvation of cells did you experience starvation like not enough no your packets and so you have to drop the packet just that during this experiments it doesn\u0027t occurs it doesn\u0027t worker is because I actually increasing the queue buffer size I think this is the reason yes it\u0027s just basically it will occur if the traffic change is too fast for the 6p protocol to allocate its lanes cells right so if it\u0027s a ping and there is a packet every two seconds then maybe that gives you enough time to allocate this the cells I think it\u0027s pretty much the answer so it can only adapt you know at a certain speed so you changes of the demand must be slow out and the changes at which you can adapt to it yeah that\u0027s true okay in a network like this because the demand comes multi huh [Music] yeah so we are running so we believe the drop to the set the 0-7 version is ready then we we start a two weeks walking group let\u0027s go around one months ago and we didn\u0027t receive comments either were responding hopefully people review it in just no comments and so right after the meeting this time we will publish another version there are eight but the man is just title fixing and to some more refining is there\u0027s no real content changings and for the current version we believe is relative to send me to the iesg and we need some comments from the community and also the six eight chairs yeah okay yes I mean what compressed called completed without any comments so I left it kind of opening that maybe that would be late commands and well I wanted to discuss now what we do with this document so we have not getting commands we have experimental code it\u0027s it does what it\u0027s supposed to do it\u0027s just one possible scheduling function it doesn\u0027t tell you that everybody has to schedule this way so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s good enough even if we don\u0027t have come well good let\u0027s call commands to move forward with this document and ask for publication they wanted to get worst "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:15",
    "text": "advice on that there were a number of people working of our long time on this document and so as an extra and so personally if there\u0027s not interest in the looking to progress it I don\u0027t want it but if it\u0027s like bunch of implementations and doing it I think it\u0027s like a mitigating factor so like you know just try a couple more times to prod a few people personally the draft as possible for instance Ryan you seem to be very interested in this topic would you would you mind I mean I mean if we reopen the welcome press color or you know wait - to a skull publication would you mind trying to do a review of it yeah just you know make sure for you as if you want it to implement so so Ryan is an example of somebody who read it and did not ask funny change in the walk of Lascaux because he was okay with this back that\u0027s fine so it\u0027s really a question of you know it\u0027s just sentim sure it\u0027s fine and that\u0027s it like I I don\u0027t mind like just doing you like the I\u0027ll you get I your to the review for it anyway so if you find like one of the people who look look at it and say it\u0027s okay and this has been a long-standing work in this working group program we started with other documents which migrated into this one I mean it so it\u0027s been a long-standing and there are multiple people working on it I\u0027m pretty confident it\u0027s quite good and then it\u0027s like a no - repo you somebody could devise another ones that\u0027s like we impose that everybody worked this way it\u0027s just just totalizing at its one possible way of doing this job that\u0027s fine and as long as you document like in the Shepherd right up the implementations as well let\u0027s could be very useful like you know the question comes up why it\u0027s it needed okay so thankful if you can send out the implementation info to like or past color Thomas L know who\u0027s gonna ship at it or somebody else Melissa movie but this was already on one of the slides before no no in that Shepherd right I started actually and all the rest go now if somebody\u0027s interesting in experiment experimenting with shepherding I can let the you know give away the job but otherwise I will be just doing it sounds good thanks just additional information also the MSF was implemented in the sixty simulator and also there\u0027s also a pending pull request in the Kentucky energy about it so they\u0027re made there are many implementation of emesis that\u0027s what as far as I know and we have we have a comment from from jabber yes Yuki Tanaka saying that he will review the latest MSF draft and comments on the mailing list yes I will be waiting for your review comments before pushing the button thank you and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:23",
    "text": "so I don\u0027t see Michael coming so like we so before it might be in rats so anyway I could I could just push these slides and we can just look at them basically the work is no more happening at 60 it\u0027s it\u0027s all about saying eh it\u0027s happening elsewhere we keep 60 show where as long as 60 she\u0027s interested which it is and then you know that does not change the the destiny of six - in any fashion so basically yes I mean that little to consider what\u0027s going on at at Lake we need to look at follow-on constraint voucher which is really the future of this document that\u0027s pretty much it so if yes the basically the rest of this session is to talk about the future of this work and the only document that could have still be opened in the working group would be this so can office T if the discussion leads to - you know closing the working group then we\u0027ll see if we need to reopen this document in like or just you know consider that it\u0027s whatever happens in the other working groups is enough to cover zero touch description so that\u0027s something we can discuss outline with the like lectures as well yeah as as you said it doesn\u0027t make a difference to what\u0027s gonna happen - six - and so I\u0027m I think you can just get started off how does it stay here well the question to the room now is do people see that there is work that should happen in this working group for which we were not chartered is there an interesting discussion that we could for which we would need to create new documents my reading of what\u0027s going on is there are two main aspects which I\u0027ve been discussed in these three of six station from which we did not complete work one was scheduling time slots along a track and the other one was shuffling the the cells in order to defeat some some tracking attacks that was Marcos work makuu Tanaka\u0027s work in both cases it seems to me that the work is not really ITF work but mostly I Triple E work if it happens and so I hardly see that we need our canvas which other 6-4 under viewing this work which tells me that all the work that I was aware of that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:23",
    "text": "was supposed to happen at 6:00 - is now past well group Glasgow apart from the zero touch thing which also tells me that unless somebody just now to say hey we\u0027ve got new work this is probably the last time we meet so I talked to Eric and Suresh and well the advice was pretty much this right we complete the document that we have running so we keep the mailing list active we keep the workgroup quoted code following see all those documents goes through the iesg we probably don\u0027t need to meet again as a working group at the IETF and we keep the mailing list active for the future just in case that\u0027s pretty much yeah suresh krisshnan so that kind of makes sense right so one thing I kind of like I wanna add there is like let\u0027s say in this period we keep it open if something comes up we will see how things go but yeah generally I see this heading for closure rather than a recharger right well it\u0027s like some amazing what comes up why not now it\u0027s not like the work on all this is finished like I said we are trying to create row at the routing area which will focus on the concept of track and generalize it over multiple macfay so people in the room invited to follow the work which happens in reliable and viable wireless which is really the logical continuation of this particular aspect of the six dish architecture Marko confirm rise and just comment to clarify my personal opinion on the belonging of the draft on circuit of jamming and schedule shuffling to ITF or typically I think it belongs to ITF in fact just reading the introduction from the Charter it mentions 15-4 does not define how the network communication scale was built so this is a kind of a gray area because the attempt here was to complete the building of the schedule in fact second in the latest discussions we had in the list in the draft mostly with militia and Michael Richards and we were starting to think about how to handle the king as to the keys use for that permutation possibly to Inca GP and that working is something is definitely not going to happen ethically so do you have comments on that show so my personal opinion is the document is like in-between in what considers the the scheduling part it\u0027s more I Triple E related while what considers how the schedule is built is related to six dish so there are both aspects to the story in my opinion the Rakeem can happen over here though is there energy I mean we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:23",
    "text": "can you can start to walk using the mailing list and depending on how that progresses we can decide to beat again on this suresh krisshnan so marco do you think you can split up the pieces of the draft into stuff that\u0027s relevant here and just put the rest of the stuff in an appendix so we can so which rough that because we luckily jamming two things right well okay so jamming one is freaking one that\u0027s to read different aspects right so do you want to focus the discussion on jamming because we discussed a lot on jamming last time I talked to him about the details but there was a big reason why it could not be done at the apparel a yeah I mean I need to go through the minutes of lifestyle because now it escapes my mind but but you mean the full software implementation of this sorry you need the full software implementation of this the moment some hardware module is involved we say that really moves to Italy there was something beyond that that to do we security or something like that I forgot do you remember something about it what we discussed last time Tarot last time we discussed the you know Marcos proposal on shuffling that the time slot to defeat tracking attacks we ended up with a problem which was related to security which made it so that you had to do something at I Triple E to make it work and I just don\u0027t remember the details of that but that was my conclusion of last time is if we go through the minute that we could only progress that work with changes that the I Triple E level that was that\u0027s my memory of last time okay so suresh krisshnan again so marco can you start a thread on the mailing list trying to see if there\u0027s an interest to work on this because it may or may not be relevant is one thing is their energies and other things I want to see both of them okay so start a thread on the mailing list we\u0027re not closing the group right now right so I would think like probably a year away or something right kind of the timeline so if you can drum up support for the work and this relevant stuff will do it I can start it again because there was support in the group with three positive reviews when authors asked for adoption but there was never a call happening yeah but then like I said last time we discussed it extensively at this meeting and my memories that we could not do it here because it had dependencies on I Triple E that we could not solve it in this room that\u0027s my memory of it right and maybe wrong but I mean you\u0027re welcome to to to like start a thread on the mailing list and see where we are and make sure see if my memory is correct on this for the scheduling of cells we want it to do here to do that work here initially it could have been everywhere because it\u0027s mostly defining a data model that comes from you know magical guard up there and it\u0027s being pushed to the devices it\u0027s a data model thing an information model so do we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:23",
    "text": "define this data model information model at the HF hie I mean it\u0027s this gray area it could have happened here but the point is we lost the energy nobody really did anything there that one document started and they died so keeping shout out for something and nope no people doing the job doesn\u0027t help now if we see those documents showing up then so how it will be in your hands to tell us then we continue we meet yeah that\u0027s what I said like so marker starts like to see if there\u0027s like interest and support and relevance and then if it is we can\u0027t we take it if not no right that\u0027s pretty much it like so in my mind there is no I supposed to you\u0027re shuffling idea which is great by the way so that\u0027s why you get positive reviews including me there is no position why it should be I triple your ITF it\u0027s a date about oh now I understand right we don\u0027t want to discuss actual technology I\u0027m just talking about the mechanics how we can go about this right so let\u0027s let\u0027s do this on the list like this like few people here that\u0027s like I don\u0027t want to make the decision here but just go on the list see this interests and then we\u0027ll figure out what to do right as I said we have time time to figure this out it\u0027s not urgent sir and then there\u0027s this question of freaking so my memory my status in my own mind of freaking was like most of the time it\u0027s not useful because ASN will not show up or something like that everything is useful when you want to evacuate some devices because that\u0027s pretty much the only way you can get away you can remove somebody yes so so what else exactly needs to be done is what I\u0027m confused so why do we need to work on wreaking the moment good membership change you\u0027re supposed to recognize anyway and we found a way to distribute new piece for this permutation together with the process described in code JP and that has some complications for the moment where you have overlapping between the old king material and a new one and we were starting to think of a way to handle that issue there were similar discussion with militia in my own on the list is a clarification we\u0027re talking about interaction of the permutation mechanism by Marko and minimal security minimal security already defines the wreaking mechanism which doesn\u0027t play so well with the permutation mechanism of Marcus\u0027s correct so if your mechanism comes into play we will have to look at keys as well as long as we don\u0027t do the permutation game what we have is good enough absolutely ok let\u0027s retry Frank stuff but it\u0027s not our intention to change anything in Kahn\u0027s opinion the way it works this is just an extension more keys to be delivered in the wreaking messages and how you can make this very wrecking work it has no impact on code rip itself does it mean that everything could be done in one document that\u0027s ideal to me also interpret "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:25",
    "text": "interoperability is something we are quite interested now since the standards wrapping up and there are many updates since the last plug test I\u0027m just wondering is there any plan for plaque test like 460 Sh well thankfully you can speak on the elf of tomorrow something tom has been rereading that kind of activity yeah so why no for planning I need to talk with Thomas to see other plane what I know is a judge is working on some trying to do some interoperability with Kentucky implantation so yeah we may doing something but I can let you know later thanks from Deborah we have a question from Diego - Horner what would happen with potential new scheduling functions if they ever appear like we said we have a mailing list we don\u0027t close the working group we just don\u0027t have a plan to meet next time that\u0027s pretty much where we are right now I mean there is not enough content that\u0027s very active to justify asking for a meeting next time unless you know something explodes on the mailing list and then well so well on this side which might sounds good so like a suresh krisshnan so the working group is kind of gonna go dormant like waiting for the documents to finish and if what comes up it\u0027s happened before like same thing happened for dat right so we didn\u0027t meet like twice and then they did like so documents came up and they found work so it\u0027s really about like work showing up and interests in it to keep it going but the default is it\u0027s gonna close if nothing let\u0027s say we put a time line once the documents are done its closest that\u0027s the plan but it\u0027s open until then really do if not something new comes up we continue yes I believe that 60-ish was a fantastic experience it was very interesting in the fact that it was orchestrating a lot of work in multiple documents and providing the architecture that ties them all together and so that\u0027s one aspect of it the second spectres driving open-source there were multiple open-source implementation and the working group also acted as a hub outside of the IETF to to integrate those those open-source implementations and finally the interaction with Etsy for all this black test so those three aspects put together and orchestrate it from within an IETF walking Rock I think that was a really really interesting experience and that leads to effective code running and interpreting open-source implementation and RFC\u0027s here and in multiple groups I think this group did very well and I wish to thank you know us probably the best last time we meet I wish to thank the IDS and and all the participants of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:26",
    "text": "other like like six or seven years for which we did six - for the intensive work that happened okay and we are just scheduling you back an hour of your life so I would like to say we bit again but no the meeting is that wrong did everybody sign the blue sheets everybody signed you [Music] you "
  }
]