[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "[Laughter] [Music] let\u0027s get started okay this is sick or yes 7:40 it\u0027s time to start 17 port yeah we go blue sheets you\u0027re not here okay we\u0027ll start here and read your first you lucky dog gene can\u0027t be with us today so I\u0027m flying solo we have a pretty short agenda but let\u0027s start with note well it\u0027s only your third or fourth session so you don\u0027t know what note well is yet right yeah please please do pay attention and everything you say can and will be used against you so our agenda is short we\u0027ll talk for a minute about where we are with drafts authen and digests we\u0027ll have some short discussions of see if we can move them forward and then we have a session on push with Krister and that that\u0027s any discussion of the agenda I do have a scribe thank you very much could use a note-taker could use a jabber scribe is there someone in the jabber room not expecting a lots to go on in the Java room today but if there\u0027s somebody in the jabber room I\u0027d appreciate if you describe for us if somebody can do that okay yeah you shouldn\u0027t be both yeah in someone else jump on the jabber room just to watch what\u0027s going on let me know if something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:25",
    "text": "happens oh oh okay drafts so I\u0027ve talked to the author of C div and they\u0027d like to work in group last call it I think it\u0027s ready to go it\u0027s been hanging around for a while I probably will want to get some people to do we chairs and want to get some more reviews don\u0027t so we\u0027ll want to get people up but anyone not gonna object to starting working group laugh call and seed it pretty soon now anybody object to I don\u0027t expect it q8 fifty reason also very yes Ben Campbell I just wanted to point out that that came up during the 3gpp coordination meeting at lunch today is something that is a 3gpp dependency got it yeah I yeah so we\u0027ll we will move forward with it and q 850 same state authors think the draft is okay simple thing no objections and they want to want to get to work group last call so again we\u0027ll probably do that pretty soon if you are been paying attention to the list you know that session timer is a very active discussion clearly something we have to get get done correctly and I sense that we\u0027re getting we\u0027re converging right I mean I don\u0027t I think we\u0027re getting to the place where everybody\u0027s kind of okay still some discussion it\u0027s not died down yet but I think we\u0027re heading in the right direction he gives us to get this right so let\u0027s let\u0027s make sure everybody\u0027s got it right before we go ahead and do it often we have a discussion today and call info Henning is coming later this week so he couldn\u0027t present but he does think it\u0027s pretty much done anybody believe that we should be hanging around wait for things to happen with calling thaw spam we had discussion I think you know it\u0027s it\u0027s converged and I think we\u0027re okay all right we\u0027ll probably do the older ones first yes this has been a gamble does it\u0027s done mean ready for working rebirth color something different no I think it\u0027s probably ready for working group last call okay I I want to do the oh the Sita van q8 50s first just because they\u0027ve been around longer get it get it done but i i\u0027ll talk to gene of course but i believe that we\u0027re will will run it will start running it pretty soon any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:29",
    "text": "other discussion on drafts alrighty then yes just one question with regard to the location draft I have discussed during the list it\u0027s still a private raft so with my name and I would like to know how to proceed now because there\u0027s also open liaison from Etsy coming because they need the stuff yes we will call we\u0027ve got a pretty light group here so I think asking for adoption in their in the in the room is probably not worth it but we won\u0027t probably do that on the list and call for adoption on the list soon what does it call I forgot it\u0027s call that\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s the wind up with them draft wind a book and look poem yeah look Fran so with that will happen okay great thank you any anything else on drafts okay thank you yeah please simple okay next slide please okay so in some context of this work there is a that a 76 16 a it\u0027s an update to that HTTP digest mechanism it did the update few aspects to to that mechanism they added the few algorithms um kept md5 as a backward a compatibility algorithm but added a char to 56 as the default algorithm a mandated the use of QP a parameter and they create an Dianna registry for new algorithms next slide please so the idea of this draft is just to follow what was done with that with that HTTP digest mechanism just use the same algorithms update the zip a a B in F and and follow the same recommendations next slide please a last time we discussed this there was some discussion about for King and how we want to handle that so a and the feedback was just keep it as it is don\u0027t change anything led there the proxies that\u0027s a proxy just aggregate those into a single response and expect the client to provide a responses to those to those challenges next slide please so a this this has been there for some time and I think I\u0027m sorry I think it\u0027s it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:30",
    "text": "ready like it\u0027s yeah I I don\u0027t I\u0027m now aware of any open issues and I\u0027m actually there was one suggestion for a adding some internationalization to to this document I didn\u0027t see anybody interested in that so we said okay no interest on I\u0027m not gonna work on that so my question is are there any open issues of this document that people are aware of it and if not can we adopt this as a workgroup document any discussion welcome back to agitator come do you earlier really think that an updated HTTP digest authentication will be implemented by anyone I remember like 12 years ago there was a proposal to do a proper digest for a soup and even then it was rejected simply for the reason you can use TLS and basic and it\u0027s I said it\u0027s more secure than using I agree like TLS is useful but that doesn\u0027t mean that this doesn\u0027t have add to the security of that solution right so so yes you can use digest on top of TLS that that doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t mean that it\u0027s a it doesn\u0027t add value right and and yes people are interested in in implementing this right now we have such a large number of devices out there and libraries out there I don\u0027t think people will do a very much to implement such a thing maybe okay yeah calm well I mean we can call for a rigor of adoption and see what we get we get nobody saying they want it then that\u0027ll that\u0027ll handle it asking for a working group adoption is an easy thing right certainly we\u0027re willing to ask yeah absolutely we\u0027ve been discussing this for some time nobody cares sure but let\u0027s get let\u0027s stop working yeah check it to my co-chair first but likely you\u0027ll see yeah should we adopt question yeah soon okay all right next one okay next slide please okay so just some context about this so this is a mechanism that we when I allow a user agent to use non credentials to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:32",
    "text": "access to sip services and this would enable a single sign-on sign-on feature where the user expected to use one one set of credentials to access sip and non sip services next slide please so similar to the earth or see the which defines two types of clients a one confidential and public came a clients here we\u0027re talking about a confidential UA which is a user agent that is capable of maintained in maintaining the security of that a of the credentials and tokens they provided it to that to that user agent public M a UA is it can now guarantee that next slide please so there are few use cases that they are discussed and in in this draft so there is a and what what comes into play also that the user interface on those devices for this in this specific use case we were talking about public UA with rich UI so the public you cannot keep those tokens in locally so it\u0027s gonna be handed to the proxy only to handle that so in this case in the use cases the user daily tries to register it gets rejected because there is no credentials there\u0027s a location head of here and and this this is one of the open questions that we have we\u0027ll discuss later on in the user agent then uses that harf mechanism which is outer scope of this document but it\u0027s it\u0027s an existing mechanism which is the OAuth a protocol to obtain an authorization code then uses that authorization code to register again and the proxy will use that authorization token M and exchange that for four tokens and then M and then okay that better registration at the end we create a shared key based on the authorization code and the Col idea from tag and the to tag from that 200 okay and we will see why we need this later on next slide please so in this use case there is a public UA but it has very limited UI in this case we\u0027re talking about a user that has access to you a phone and a user agent to in a browser so the user agent that user will go to that a to the browser and login into that authorization server and obtain a short-lived numeric access code and then we\u0027ll punch that that code into the user agent that will be collected and and sent in the registration request to a proxy the proxy will exchange that for tokens and okay okay the registration and again at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:32",
    "text": "the end we have that shared key that\u0027s created extra please now that Shift key is used to kind of allow the user agent to re-register or establish a communication with the proxy if that connection fails for some reason so without really requiring the user to provide his credential again obviously that the proxy can invalidate that shit key anytime and require the user to go on and validate itself or authenticate and validate self.x like these in this case this is a confidential UA would rituai that the user agent goes directly to the authorization server using the authentication mechanism existing mechanism which is outerscope obtains access token and then register uses that access token the proxy could could add an introspection step this is an optional and then okay is that a that registration in this case that it is no need for shared token because the user agents already have access to the access token so it will use that all the time next slide please okay so I have a few open issues that I hoping to get some feedback here in one use case we\u0027re talking about 401 with location Heather there is no location header currently defined in Sep so there is a allocation either for HTTP so I\u0027m kind of suggesting we do something like that so indicate that they\u0027re authorized server and so that\u0027s I would like to get some feedback from here if that that makes sense or if there are others other suggestions a that proof position calculation and we use that I just think that is defined by a 44 74 is is that reasonable any anybody has any any other suggestions if that if they or if there is any problem with that and for now we use that GOP if for real registrations is that do we need to is that do we recommend to use that for all requests from the user agent to to the proxy or just keep it limited to to the registration so so these are kind of they\u0027re the open issues that we\u0027re hoping to get some feedback here in thoughts both comes back having it did review again John Peterson try to standardize something like this couple of years ago he still tries to standardize this under the guise of in this table working group and under the guise of providing secure originating numbers which doesn\u0027t work in my opinion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:32",
    "text": "but it\u0027s basically a third party authentication scheme and this can work and it\u0027s interesting work but I guess there\u0027s a big overlap between your proposal and proposal of John Peters and in his various drafts over the last couple of years so yes I think that\u0027s useful work okay thank you well there was some earlier work but it doesn\u0027t overlap with the current stir work right it\u0027s just that old thing that he tried to do a while ago yeah true any feedback on it is an adopted draft yes we thought as we at one point we thought it was worth doing any thought so now open issues like right that that\u0027s I\u0027m hoping to get out what do you do remind me what you want to do with the location what what what\u0027s the issue so if you go back to let me see go back few slides one more one more one more yeah here so the user agents try to register right and and the proxy is telling go and first of indicate where to go is that location right I\u0027m telling ya okay this is the authorization server go there authenticate and come back it it\u0027s but it\u0027s not contacts right yeah I don\u0027t want to overload that I think it\u0027s it\u0027s not the right thing to do but but again I\u0027m open to whatever so to repeat what I said before the mic I said that kind of sounds like contact you know because it\u0027s describing where you should go for this thing and you know it\u0027s and contact already means at least three different things so why not a fourth so so I mean the other reason I thought of that is because being a you can see it getting an increasing amount of gray in my beard here in the early design of sip contact was location until we figured out it needed to be named at her form and location was just at her spec so we renamed it so I mean it seems I mean I doubt there\u0027s very much pre 25:43 code still running out there they can use um but I mean it just I don\u0027t know I mean would existing thing how confused with existing things be getting in contact in a 401 yeah I don\u0027t know okay okay okay so that that option okay and he everybody has any thoughts okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:39",
    "text": "anyway okay get them cleared and then again will in the same sense that we can ask for working group last call if we get no comments then that\u0027s an indication of what\u0027s going on yeah my generating generating lists discussion and getting this finished or off the table is what we want to do okay just let it sit yeah yeah well do that this drafts been hanging around with nothing going on for a long time I don\u0027t want to want to either get it off the table one way or another either get it through the process we\u0027re dropping okay Chris tree do you have something on okay alright okay thank you anything else and on this draft thank you okay thanks Lou you\u0027re up Christa get rid of the thumbnails whatever just keep going okay so this is something called seat pusher please go to the next slide and one one thing I want to make clear from from the beginning is to say what this is and what it\u0027s not this is not a new push notification mechanism using sip that\u0027s not what this is about this is about a mechanism for transporting push notification parameters between us push subscriber which would typically be a cqa and that push notification notifier see proxy what I call it using sip for usage with existing push notification making services for example you have Apple push notification APNs you heard firebase cloud you have RFC 80 30 based etc so so again we\u0027re not defining a new push mechanism here so next slide so then what\u0027s the problem the problem is that previously when you made boy public or when you made I oh s applications this is at the moment this is a problem in iOS it\u0027s that there was a mode which was called VoIP mode actually which means that when I when applications was in sleeping mode or suspended mode it could be woken up when there was a network message in the SIP case that would be an incoming invite so the application woke up processed in white and everything was fine knowing latest versions of iOS that has been removed so basically the only thing is that the only way you can wake up a suspended application is of course either you\u0027re using pressing the icon on the phone but you have an ink but otherwise the only way is to use this push notification which means that if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:40",
    "text": "you have an incoming invite and your application is suspended it\u0027s not going to be able to handle that and things won\u0027t work Android has something similar currently they don\u0027t mandate the usage of us over push mechanism you can still send the invite to the Android phone and the application we will wake up whoever they do recommend usage of uber push also in order to to to wake up applications or who knows sooner or later they may actually adopt the same thing I got some text there there\u0027s even a link there where you can see the official note from Apple I try this link five minutes ago and it actually works so Nexus so this is kind of background why this is needed so so next slide please so this is basically a picture showing showing the thing we want to do you have to subscribe it there which is in our case again a CPU a I think the red text or the red arrows here are actually sip messages the blue the blue arrows of other protocols which which are also discard what we want to do here normally they\u0027re based on HTTP but it could be something else so you have your application it subscribe to up notification events from from from the service it gets back I call it a push resource ID prid in this document because I want to make a generic solutions if you\u0027re familiar with Apple for example they call it something else firebase calls it on something else and so on but but I thought this was a good generic term as I we say later when when you define the usage for a specific service you will actually have to map this to that specific service or so implementers know what what what it is now the idea here is that then when you get this and when you send your register you\u0027re actually going to include this information in your sip register request and after you\u0027ve done that at some points this the void application is suspended because you know you may use some other application and then at some point there\u0027s going to be one trigger this could be or a typical case is this is a sip invite but it just could also be for example that the network\u0027s requires that you have to do a read registration or something like that so you get this trigger the the proxy which takes care of this gets it it sends a push message again includes the spread and some additional information which is service specific the push notification service gets these forwards to the CPU a CPA wakes up and then when this invite is forwarded it will be able to receive it and and you know set up the call and everything like that so things work but if you wouldn\u0027t if you just forward is if in white it would not the UA would not be able to receive it so next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:41",
    "text": "this is the same thing and here I\u0027m trying to gain to show actually what what scope of the draft is I uh it\u0027s basically distributing these these parameters to to to the to the proxy or the publisher notifier that\u0027s what is it all about again we\u0027re not touching the existing services or in the push services or anything like that Krister yep in the back there okay this they\u0027re not a timing issue with how long it takes to wake it up before you get the invite on us they\u0027re not something that needs to be done there actually I according to to to the the people I talk to this is actually goes very quickly and you could of course I mean if you they could also be you could hold on for this invite for a for a while before you forward exactly saying I\u0027ve got I\u0027m woken okay I don\u0027t have that since lights but but you have to remember that there could be a net or something in between so you need to send this registering open to open this not binding again so there is there is actually in the draft there is a nut consideration section which talks about that so Jonathan Linux so I don\u0027t know how much information you can carry in the push notification but we\u0027re we possible to just tunnel the invite over the push notification itself yeah that\u0027s why I\u0027m coming back to that yes they\u0027re not actually no well let\u0027s put it this way there are a few reasons why you can\u0027t do that first it\u0027s very ugly second you you should you you have to remember that even though there could be other proxies between the UA and and and and and this proxy which means and they are never gonna see the invite but then suddenly they we start seeing you know 180 X responses or something like that and and that wouldn\u0027t work and the third reason is that I I don\u0027t remember the exact numbers but they actually the payload that you can include in this push message is very limited so I don\u0027t think you would even fit in right there with you know a lot of STP so yeah but again that has been suggested there are suggestions to do it that way but but that\u0027s not the intention here yeah and I actually I have explicit text about this in the dress because I think Martin tomes are not asked to include that text yeah so this has been Campbell up here as an individual I want to push a little more on what Brian was saying you know you have a race condition right now between the trigger and the push message and the fit message and making time your solution doesn\u0027t seem like a general solution and it also occurs to me that this is almost isomorphic to things we\u0027ve done before when it comes to trying to identify with some token a particular way to get to the user agent it feels kind of like outbound and some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:43",
    "text": "of those things we\u0027ve done before so I really what this comes down as a scope question about how much this draft needs to worry about how you know when the client is ready to receive the triggering thing and there\u0027s this transaction timing issues there to write a particular if it\u0027s an on invite if this is a message or a notify oh yeah that\u0027s me or something again I you can\u0027t just camp on this message expect the transaction transaction to survive no again as far as I understand this goes very quickly and I also believe that in some cases you actually there is actually the the publisher is actually going to get a message back when when the message has been delivered I don\u0027t know if if both Appling and firebase and although support and then in that case you could of course wait for that and until you you forward in white but I don\u0027t think transaction timers or things like that is gonna be an issue because this this actually decide happens very quickly so so so what you mean by very quickly when you\u0027re having to send a message out to a third party host it\u0027s gonna get around to delivering at what it can sorry so writing so when you\u0027re you\u0027re sending your push request off to a push notification server that you don\u0027t control it\u0027s across probably the internet and it\u0027s gonna get to this push notification when it can depending on how busy it is what do we mean by very quick I don\u0027t have numbers but what I\u0027m in talking what I\u0027ve been told is that we\u0027re talking about milliseconds or so so so it\u0027s it\u0027s that that\u0027s right I can I can imagine how we can maybe this is true in practice a lot of the time but I can\u0027t imagine how we could reasonably guarantee that or anyone could be the pitcher when we can\u0027t guarantee but it says I mean there can also be something can always go wrong it\u0027s the same thing even in cases where you where you\u0027re forwarding right maybe it gets lost somewhere the network doesn\u0027t work you\u0027re always gonna have that case where when there are delays in the network and I mean there of course things can go wrong if and so and then let me wind up what I was really up here for if to me this is a scope question when we talk about adopting the work about whether or not how much work this draft needs to do on solving the connectivity potential connectivity issues and I can see it saying oh yes these things could exist and maybe you need to be an outbound through a proxy or any number of things or I can see it going into detail with normative stuff and I think either might be reasonable but we can\u0027t even know what we\u0027re starting up what we mean to do we start out I mean the whole idea of course this is for the community decide I wouldn\u0027t really like to go into too much details regarding normally what the U has to do and those kind of thing this is this is about you know waking up the application and and and again currently I don\u0027t even suggest to include in this push message why it has to be it could be a reiteration or a or or it could be a invite if someone has things there\u0027s a need to include actually what why this comes they can do it but I don\u0027t think we need to standardize that that\u0027s just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:43",
    "text": "gonna be that\u0027s gonna be additional information that you know you can send PI a payload in in this push message but we don\u0027t specify that the payload you have to include there you know it\u0027s its application specific sorry love come back one reason not to include specific information into the push is data protection we can\u0027t use we can\u0027t disclose called numbers to third parties like everyone yes I will know anybody but you know that\u0027s a very good point and isolation something which is in a draft is privacy because you\u0027re not going to send any user information or SiC private I mean you did the only thing you\u0027re going to send up to the push notification service is what you normally would send up when you do your your registration you\u0027re not gonna send any sip identities or anything like that the push notification service may not even know that this is worship it\u0027s just a subscription and when sometimes some someone triggers I\u0027m gonna send this down to him actually there even if you\u0027re concerned about the payload that can be included what the drafts also and this was requested by Martin Thomson it\u0027s actually a reference is this Martin\u0027s this web push security draft which allows you to do have basically end-to-end encryption of the payload it\u0027s not needed for this mechanism to work but but you know it was added thereby by his request and I think is a good feature to have in case someone wants to use it regarding the other comment we have such a system and it works simply the user item backs up in the registers itself so it\u0027s a system and then it gets the call yeah I mean that\u0027s the ID here that you have to send something at least if you have a not there you need to open a nut binding so there is really a significant delay between the invite triggering the the notification departs a user agent and the user agent waking up and being ready so this can take some time it can tell that\u0027s good but I mean this is something I mean you know you usability test I said in the usability lab the user was instructed to install the application and there was do you want this application to have push notification no sure but yeah but you know of course you can always you can always configure or do something so that doesn\u0027t work but that\u0027s true for any application you can you know screw up things buy it buy it buy it but uh I Sean Leonard so I don\u0027t usually participate in the sip stuff however as a recent pretty intense sip end-user I guess I see that there\u0027s a lot of promise for the strap and I would like to see more that I actually read the draft and I didn\u0027t see where it discusses the problems with including sip payload information in the push notification so maybe I missed it but I did just read the draft it\u0027s not there but it\u0027s a good comment III think it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:43",
    "text": "would be useful to actually include it because I have received that question yes because I have received up questions from quite many actually so I okay because my impression or my view actually without maybe having all the experience with all the Dragons whatever is that it\u0027s much more powerful to include to have the option of including the sip invite payload data in the push notification if it can be included as to the issue of size I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know what the exact limitations are of push notification size but some invites are going to be smaller or larger than others and as for the issue of security there\u0027s like actually three or four ways to do multiple levels of encryption one is that I understand that apples push notification implementation has some sort of end end security or encryption feature which depends on how much you trust Apple and their implement yeah man one thing I mean these messages here the the push messages itself they are obviously going to be encrypted right because I think TLS at least in application well encrypted in transport but I also thought exactly but but when I\u0027m this modern Thomson strap that\u0027s actually the payload so so the push notification server is not going to be able to decrypt that that will go into and from there right yeah and I understand apple\u0027s implementation of their push notification service also as and end encryption so that Apple\u0027s servers cannot see the payload of the okay motion as well so that\u0027s an advantage that would satisfy a lot of regulatory concerns about that and privacy concerns and then the third thing is that you know Ben can one of the co-authors of a draft with Russ house Leon doing s/mime based and to end sip encryption of messages and I understand that there are other ways and sip to do that as well so if you don\u0027t trust the push notification services implementation of encryption or if it\u0027s not satisfactory you could encrypt those messages as well and one of the other features of using SMI more CMS with sip messages is that it is possible to compress the messages as well so that may give you just enough you know margin to be able to shove sip invites into a push notification packet to compress it encrypt it and then send it along so there\u0027s there\u0027s some interesting my point is that there\u0027s a lot of interesting ways that this actually could be done and ultimately reduce significantly the latency right of getting the VoIP app to complete the call I will include something simony if someone wants to do that but I don\u0027t think the director because I like I said I think there\u0027s a lot of problems for example because three to six one for example says that the response should be sent where the request came from and you get this invite from Harry and you have no idea I mean you may have a via header but you know it\u0027s not always sure data and I mean I\u0027d like to you know if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:43",
    "text": "someone wants to do that as an implementation issue I don\u0027t know but I think as far as the draft isn\u0027t concerned you are at least going to forward this invite using sip routing make an instance we don\u0027t want to change sip or or see prowling because that\u0027s just gonna be a mess I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s one of the reason I\u0027m standing here because some of the suggestions I\u0027ve seen their priorities suggest and do those kind of things and and they have very specific assumption how the network works there are no proxies in between and so on and so on they make they makes assumptions based on their deployments but that\u0027s not gonna work you know so generally communicate mechanism don\u0027t so I mean I think I read I just I congested not having read your draft until just now on I quote over my laptop but the net considerations thing I think needs to be more fundamental because adding a mechanism that only works for iPhones that art behind master firewalls seems not very useful but that\u0027s that\u0027s absolutely not that idea I mean by point being that given that the solution of Nats and firewalls also solves the race condition I maybe put build that in you know you have to have something like outbound in there period you know basically so that the invite the invite is sent as soon as effectively you\u0027ve rear edge\u0027 stirred I feel like that solves both the race condition and that and firewall problem so maybe right but you you don\u0027t have to say you must do this you have to say if there isn\u0027t worried about blah blah blah then use this mechanism I may be well I mean obviously we need more text in address I don\u0027t think we should we shouldn\u0027t it feels like encouraging people to I mean then maybe nobody would because they try it and it just wouldn\u0027t work but encouraging people to write something that a has a race condition and B doesn\u0027t work behind nuts and firewalls by just doing the simple version of this draft is you know not a modern useful no absolutely not but this has this has because we don\u0027t know all the pieces so I think we\u0027ve given Krister a lot of information right let\u0027s go and see all right and then my second question is given that you said you know there\u0027s a lot of application specific stuff and obviously the prints themselves are is this actually something needs to be standardized it\u0027s just an informational draft saying this is how you use a print well we define new CPI\u0027s parameters here which we\u0027ll come to later and interrupt between subscribers and publishers from different vendors yes I do because I I mean otherwise every window every network wind or we\u0027ll have to discuss with each and each terminal window and you\u0027re gonna end up with out with a mess and I\u0027m mostly going to mention the need "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:43",
    "text": "for standardization in just a while so no no it\u0027s it yeah it yeah I think it\u0027s a it\u0027s a very useful draft but I still AM that concern with with a delay with that in this case you\u0027re talking about the application being suspended in some cases it will be killed completely killed and you have to really launch that application so so it is it is a valid concern that we need to really think about right sure and we need to have text about that also so so I think so this has been Campbell again also with an individual again and I\u0027m going to try to take Brian\u0027s comment to hard to not try to dive too deep much into detail I did want to point out though that the question about knowing when it\u0027s okay to send them a request also applies if you to deciding if you need to send a push request in the first place because it could be entirely possible to deliver this message right now and you may or may not know that so the guidance kind of works whatever you talk about their needs to kind of think in both directions I mean you can always see it forward they they invite and see what happens but then again then you\u0027re gonna delay that push not to be or you can send both of them and the application will have to and if the application when it gets a push notification if it\u0027s already up and it has to receive invite I mean those we need text about that but I can\u0027t answer you you know I think there\u0027s a number of ways to approach that so next slide please yeah oh yeah so this is just you know what this draft is doing it defines new CPI parameters are there being some comments on those so I don\u0027t think we need to discuss the details of those but this is what it does it defines one year I parameter for carrying this parade value and underneath the one parameter for Espeon type which this P and type actually it includes you know watch services this Apple firebase and so on and then some service specific parameters because some services they have in addition to this they have some extra information that you need to send but this is service specific and then there are a couple of our headers there which can be used by this draft ITF encryption in order to provide this information and also there\u0027s a new I honest operative I mean we want to make this as a generic mechanism so you can register in this P and s provider values at the moment this is only an issue it with you know with mobile terminal so basically we\u0027re gonna have a apple and firebase and and those are actually predefined in the draft but we still want to make it generic if it also to allow for other other services so we don\u0027t have to write a new draft so yeah I on a registry and what kind of information you have to do for that and the next slide please yeah this is just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:45",
    "text": "an example you will no sleep so I don\u0027t think we need to spend time on this one it\u0027s the next one please okay so who needs this and and and this is something which I want to stress is that this is operators need a solution now as we speak I mean I know both you know my company and other vendors are having discussions about this and I think this is what I want to point out that this is not a new feature that\u0027s put in a roadmap for for a release at some point as leases I\u0027m concerned or what I know this is considered as a high-priority bug fix because you know you can\u0027t I mean there there is there is a way yes exactly there\u0027s a time issue there there ways you can do this now you can you can use the older versions of the iOS SDK sand and think you can but that\u0027s I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s just a matter of time some of the operators have have indicated on the list there are also other operators who unfortunately don\u0027t don\u0027t participate in ITF that also need is like I said have a while ago there\u0027s different IDs for proprietary no me probably solutions flowing floating around I mean I\u0027ve seen one for example was this included in my invite but there are also much more worse which includes defining new interfaces defining new nodes defining applications service just what is really horrible and and but the good thing is that these people when you talk to them and I said you know the reason we have because there is no standardized solution so of course everyone comes up with yourself but the message I\u0027ve got is that yes if there would be a standard solution we can use that because everyone realize is that having to do Wender specific and terminal specific in the in the long run it\u0027s not it\u0027s not going to work it\u0027s gonna be a big mess did you have a comment on it we would have needed a solution a couple of years ago already the problem may be that too many non-standard implementations are already out there and considered a solve problem because we don\u0027t touch a non-standard solution anymore but yeah it\u0027s so there may be some and there\u0027s never anything we can do about that but I also know that there are some which are net not yet there and there is a little time I told them you know what we\u0027re working on this please please you know see what\u0027s happening it\u0027s really the question the question of scope yes just this parameter but of course the whole interworking do you consider this push subscription we have the same lifetime at the registration or do they differ and how do we handle that do you get a message from Google if the device gets broken or gets those are all good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:46",
    "text": "comments and we need to have text on that but I mean I I didn\u0027t want to you know before we have before we know if there\u0027s interest you work on this so next slide please I think that yeah basically so so my suggestion is that that but that we adopt this because I mean like I said this is needed and and it\u0027s it\u0027s needed yesterday or or even earlier so so from from us perspective it\u0027s a very simple thing again you know it\u0027s just you write parameters as we\u0027ve seen there there\u0027s some there\u0027s a lot of text we want to do this but it\u0027s not you know rocket science but it will have a big impact it\u0027s something which is really needed thank you any I mean this has had a lot of lists discussion so there clearly is a lot of interest in it so I think chairs are inclined to ask for adoption and a milestone and all that we have to juggle when we\u0027re doing what so and genes not here so we can\u0027t you know but but clearly this is high I mean there\u0027s been a lot of us this any any other comments any you know any objections to to having a call for adoption at this point clearly there\u0027s work for you to do right you can you can stop going I so don\u0027t wait let\u0027s keep going right okay yeah do it on the list yeah it\u0027s too few people here given the size of the group to get anything interesting from the room but this has been I agree do that on the list and I\u0027ll often come it as you said we\u0027ve got several things to do cause of adoptions on this can somewhat parallel eyes they don\u0027t you know right it\u0027s not like a working group last call where we expect everyone to find all the problems right now I recognize that I mean obviously they\u0027re like we\u0027ve seen there\u0027s text to be added but but but I think the good thing if we get this adopted we can tell the market hey there\u0027s gonna be a solution for this and I and I think or that that\u0027s exact yes yes understand anything else that\u0027s our session as you can tell from the discussion that we had here thanks there there\u0027s a lot of work that has been hanging around plus the two things the session timer and push that are that are currently occupying time on the on the list and Jean and I are bound and determined to clear off our milestones one way or another so all I\u0027m saying is expect to need to do reviews and respond to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:47",
    "text": "messages and let us know about what you want to do and not do and we\u0027re we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna try and clean the world up here Christy uh I think you did mention it Dora I may sleep at the VA Belk will Ashley published in RFC since the last meeting so yes we are closed in RFC thank you very much we are moving moving ahead and I forgot it which one did we do came out forgot I mean suppose content died a Content ID there we go but but a few of the drafts have been hanging on a very long time we want to clear those up but I think that this push is clearly hot and we\u0027re probably gonna I mean we will ask okay else for discussion great thank you very much they\u0027re up here both of them Thanks yeah even though you know like I said it\u0027s not rocket science but the interest is actually something "
  }
]