[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "Okay, we're going to get started For those in the room, please scan in. It's important for tracking the size of the room and that shows you are here. It also is the way that we will manage the queue So please scan in I am lou berger. My co-chair Yannos Farkas, is here with me Our secretary eve schooler is online So welcome all We're here in the room and remotely This is an IETF meeting We're on day two, so you've probably seen this already This is our note well. It reminds us of our rules related to participation and if you're not familiar with it, please go check out the IETF website and the Note Well Basically, anything you say and contribute here becomes part of our permanent record and is a formal and considerate a formal contribution to the IETF We also have rules, guidelines for how we conduct ourselves in our meetings We ask that everyone keep the discussion professional. We understand that sometimes, we understand that sometimes arguments, technical arguments can get a little heated It's good to have uh, passionate discussions, but please keep it at the professional level. Do not direct it at anyone personally. If you do feel that someone has acted inappropriately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "to you, there is an ombudsman team who is available to you as to discuss that For those that are remote, you're here So thank you for coming. I don't think you need these guidelines. For those in the room, the big point is scan in. We will use that for managing our Q and for our discussion to keep things equitable between those who are in the room and those who are remote Need echo piece, I think we're okay on Note taking is a really important thing. We do this joint note taking, we ask that everyone, join and help capture a little bit of the discussion. You don't have to capture their present That's in the slides, that's in the YouTube but the discussion the gist of the comments the technical comments as well as the decisions, please help us capture that in the notepad The in chat, you'll find a link on Meetecho, you'll find a link. There's lots of ways to get there Please help contribute, particularly if you're making comments at the mic All slides, all material is online and available. We have two sessions Thank you for making it to the first one That we will cover the majority of the working group documents and the majority of our agenda If we are running a little late today on topics, we may spill over the last presentation We move from this slot to the next, if needed. We're going to try to keep to our agenda but we do have some room in the second session So if discussion, if we have good discussion, that goes a little longer we'll let that conversation happen here The second session is on Thursday. We hope you can make it there as well well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "The agenda is posted. We have, I don't believe the had any changes from the draft agenda that originally went up. There was one request that we had missed, but that person had said that they were okay not presenting, so we'll hear from them in the future Please focus on changes and plans for completing the document If you have open issues you would like feedback from on the from the working group now is a great time to bring them up. Of course, we use the list to confirm any discussion that happens here and confirm what working group consensus So we're pretty excited. We have three new RFC You know, it's great to come here and talk, but in the in the reason we're here is to publish documents So we have three that have come out since the last meeting Thank you all who've contributed to those and the working group for helping progress this work That's really wonderful to see. Similarly, we have two documents in the RFC Editor Q That means our work is largely done on these as well. And now we just wait for the final public process We have one document that is with the AD There were some comments made on that and on the list recently, we look for the conversation to continue there to resolve the issues We have one document that's post-last call, RARC architecture. We're getting closer or getting really close i we think well we'll hear more about it. It's on the agenda And one recent relatively recent adoption on taxonomy that is going to hopefully help us categorize the different queuing solutions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "that are being discussed. And so that's a really important document. It too is on the agenda We have a few documents not on the agenda. The control plane framework we think is pretty close to last call. I think we were going to do it one final read, and then do a last call on that Scaling requirements is pretty much parked for the moment until we get a little more work on the solutions But we don't see a lot of change happening there, but the document still open in case we discover that the requirements aren't quite right and quite aligning with our solutions I don't think, I don't want to, do you have anything you want to say on industrial? there's some discussion going on on the list And you'll hear more about the raw framework as part of the raw architecture, basically they're going to say that they're going to revive that as soon as the architecture is We have a couple of incoming liaisons The first one went to multiple working groups Please take a look if you think that you would like to have a response Please propose it on the list We'll probably bring it in, bring it the other working groups if we decide that we want to respond. At this point, we don't see a specific response on the horizon for that one, but again, we're always open to contributions The second liaison is a little more interesting that was sent to us. And there's been some discussion about that there's probably going we're probably going to want to do a response on this one And yeah, if we do move forward with a response as usual,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "we'll discuss it on the list yeah just uh um to do move forward with response, as usual, we'll discuss it on the list. Yeah, just to let you know that it was addressed to us IAA2.1 and Study Group 12 and 802.1 is sending a response crafted and approved last week, I gave the link to the chat the essence is silent is not consent, which is seems to be misunderstood. We have Scott in the queue queue Scott? Yeah, the liaison was sent by the chair of IAA802.1 like 10 minutes ago So it's also addressed to the debt net group so i can get the i triple e response loaded in the I IETF's liaison data as well for your information that will help with your reply thanks that's great and if you that will help with your reply thanks that's great and if it's addressed through our group it'll pop up there for everyone to see Thank you, Scott Scott I think everyone is familiar with our IPR process this is just here as a reminder. We do a formal call at adoption and before moving to working group last call, it's very important to disclose any IPR that you are aware of I know that this has come up occasionally I expect it to come up again. I know we have a document that we're going to do a last call on that has some IPR that we don't quite understand, so we'll ask for some additional information This is here as a reminder that the working group has resources available to you as participants. If you would like to set up either formal or informal meetings we can support that. If you have a request for a topic,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "to cover in an interim meeting, please let us know And we can use those working group resources And of course, as a reminder, the list is actually where we confirm consensus. So please continue to use the list, have good discussion there This is I failed to update this slide. This is the current process so this is a reminder of a process change we discussed at the last meeting The changes is that we are asking for all authors of working group doc have working group so this is a reminder of a process change we discussed at the last meeting, the changes is that we are asking for all authors of working group documents to either request a slot to present or to give us a staff update at the same time that the submission happens, which is basically the deadline in order to get the agendas in. And the reason for this change is so that we have enough time the working group has enough time to consider the status and prepare for this meeting here for any discussion on open items, even if the document's not being presented So we think it's a really important process change It is new, so, you know, there's a little transition from showing up at the meeting and giving something a little bit at home or showing, sending mail the week before and not giving people really enough time to react So we really want to emphasize that we feel that this change is important And with that, I have finished the intro, and we're going to move on to Pascal Thank you have me okay? You're very low Very low. Okay, let me Okay, let me... Yesterday was too loud, so we must have changed something again that. Yeah, if you can do something to adjust your volume, that would be really appreciated appreciated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Yes, they won't. Two seconds, I could go out running appreciated If you were talking, I'm not hearing it you. No, no, I'm not just in my the volume of my mic Like I said yesterday, it was yesterday it was very, very loud in the room we are in so I moved it down. And now I have to move it was very very loud in the room we are in so i moved it down and now i have to to move it i think you've hit the right spot you were a little loud for a moment, but the last thing you said was perfect. So it's we're ready to go. So let's move on can you display the slides please this slides are and I think you have control Okay, so as you mentioned, there is, there are two documents for the ROA architecture. One is the architecture document itself and the second one is the raw framework document which has not been moving on, and there is actually a reason for that. The idea that we had at Rowe was to use the architecture to document what we thought we would be doing and use the framework to detail how we realized it like the framework would be able to document which RFC does what, how things are structured together, whereas the architecture was more of a blueprint, meaning the architecture comes before the work and the framework comes after the so that's why the framework is then moving on and we will need to progress on the right items in terms of technical RFCs before we can really move on with the framework So it will be expired. That's in extension. There is no much reason to just keep it alive at the moment. We need to work on the items and then we can revive the framework"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "Now, if people have commands on the framework and they want some changes, we can always make them So we just publish 18 with Janos. So thanks, Janos, I mean, Yannos has been reviewing this document and working on fine-grained details for a while now. I think we are reaching a very good level with this document. For, from my perspective, the main thing that has happened since version 17 is that we have riskoped a little bit the way we are doing things the way we are saying things to move from the row charter which was more open to, I would say, the wide internet back to deadnet, which is more for local domain and tunnels and things which are more controlled So we are kind of retrofitting this in the raw architecture. So row now can remain within the debt net umbrella. And as an example to that, there was this picture on the top line Well, you could see that basically the idea was we have some access network like wireless Wi-Fi or 5G access networks where most of the quote-and-quote wireless issues could happen. And then there was some back-end network which could be the Internet or could be an enterprise network in an ESS or could be a 5G core. And the other was we are not measuring the network on the right at layer 2. We are measuring basically the right the radio access network, and then we are measuring N to end to end at layer three. But we are not re-observing the is called the internet on this picture Now the discussion we shown us was, hey, um, don't support the Internet in that net. We have to, but we do tunnels. We do in the core of our tunnels, more than not actually in Wi-Fi. There are also Elwap tunnels"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "and pseudo-wires are tunnels, there are tunnels everywhere and you can effectively measure the tunnel, even if you don't really know what's going on in the substrate of that tunnel so we change the picture from what is on the top left to what is on the bottom right And Yanosh has had that additional question whether we should address illustrate more than one tunnel just to show that the multipath can effectively have more than one tunnels. On the one hand, it will make the picture a bit more complex to read, but in the hand, obviously it's more complete if you see more than one tunnel. My idea is to keep the picture simple, but I mean, any convert is good to take here another example of something we changed, this text in green here is gone and probably there is a another instance of that text I need to remove as well But the idea was these were the words which came with the picture on the top left here saying you can neglect what's going on the quote and quote the wires compared to the loss for instance or jitter that can happen on the wire. So the idea was if you have an IoT network for instance or if even a Wi-Fi network, it may very well be that what happens on the wire is one or two orders of magnitude more visible, more impacting than what goes on the wire. So if the wireless is 99% of the contribution to Jeter a lot loss, then we can ignore the rest of the world That was the intention here, let's go And you can see also on this picture on the top right you see the tunnels instead of the internet Same as you, we are eliminating every reference to the internet at large but we conserve the idea that there are tunnels and we are measuring them. And you can realize that, like I said, this could be through the wires, this could be SD1 this could be all sorts of tunnels. And then what can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "capwap and core, any sort of tunnel. So that's still the intention to support those stories Another thing is, since we are more into death net and less into IoT, the kind of numbers that we are giving in the timing order tables is gone down for two, three orders of magnitude and you see the new numbers. I was on the both well The idea was for the time scale of the RCP the idea was you recompute your routes like a batch system every so often, but you don't re-compute the routes as soon as there is something wrong. Because you know that role we love plan B's and C's and so you don't have to recompute your routes immediately. That's why there was hours and above in your CPF times now we're going to a week can trigger a rat in computation as soon as the is a problem because we have more bandwidth between the routing system and the forwarding system. So we have basically changed the order of magnitude of numbers That's really behind that, that's the chain of intention going from you don't recompute the routes immediately you recompute them as a batch much later or you do recompute them immediately because you have enough bandwidth for doing your control immediately as opposed to a resource and that's pretty much what i wanted to do tell you and the rest is the other updates that Janosh has been proposing So Yonash, yes, I'm usable you, Pascal Actually, the first two bullets has been explained, so I'm not going into that one of more integration or better integration overall to the death net architecture and as the third bullet says I guess the major update was to update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "figure five based on the figure three added to work version 17. Figure three is an expansion of the very simple that net figure showing the forwarding and the service sublayer and the location of row and raw components and figure five is the one that elaborated more in detail so based on the changes happen to seven there was the figure and the corresponding text had to be brought up date and there were some corresponding changes Thank you this is the details on figure five. The main change is that the point of the PLR which is a point of local repair in theater change is that the PLR, which is a point of local repair in TE terms, you can consider it as a point of local reaction has been moved to the forward sublayer where the actual fast reactions happen that's the point of the PLR and also another terminology change is that asynchronous control plane framework ACPF has been replaced with local CPF. That was the idea of which was did not reflect by the old name Asynchronous sounded like time sync And it's actually the point is that its local decisions making all the reactions faster And to make the figure clear, in terms of the death net architecture where the different components are, the sound by in soundbound interface has been added to indicate the data plane and the operational plane to make it clearer next slide clearer And this is another suggestion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "change, updates to the definition of reliability and availability actually bring them closer to the cited NASA definitions where they come from and I guess this is the last detailed one, yeah, there were further smaller changes like the previous draft used maximum consecutive failures but actually maximum consecutive loss has been different by the debt net flow arrangement previous draft used maximum consecutive failures, but actually maximum consecutive loss has been defined by the debt net flow RFC. So the terminology has been changed to that one. And the last slide is makes the point that we already discussed, Lou explained that we are actually heading to the second working rule plus course last slide is makes the point that we already discussed Lou explained that we are actually heading to the second working rule plus call I have raised one more discussion topic on the list related to our discussed, Lou explained that we are actually heading to the second working group last call. I have raised one more discussion topic on the list related to OEM, which we would like to see some discussion from OAM experts My concern was that the there is the inbound and on our out-of-band OEM definitions in the draft I think it's not clear. I was trying to figure out something clear, and when I clearer, when I found the initiative in IETF suggesting not use these terms So it would be nice to sort that out maybe before last call but this can be part of last call Any comments, questions? As we move to last call, I think it is important to this is to Pascal I think it would be really helpful to go back and look at the comments that came in particularly in November. I see at least my comments haven't been addressed in the in this revision and I did not go and look at others to see whether all the comments were addressed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "So I really appreciate all the work for forward. This is clearly a really good step forward but it would be good to make sure that past comments are addressed and be before we had to last call And Pascal, if you feel that you have done that, please just send a message to the list saying, that you feel that all comments on the list have been addressed and then those who have made comments can re- re-raise them, and that would include myself well that's not the case you know i have to go back to the list and make sure, first, that I have isolated all the messages I will answer you specifically. Sure, I just double-checked, but I don't mind resending the message to the list if that would be helpful But thank you very much for the change and really look forward to wrapping this document up. Thank you, Pascal All right, Carlos. Okay, thank you much. I'm Carlos Bernardo, I'm presenting this update on multi-domen extensions As you see from the cover slide, I highlight that it's not any longer role specific multi-domain extensions, although in the draft, the title is still raw that's a mistake I have to update But the idea here is that we are now trying to address multi-domain extensions from a deadnet perspective not focusing only on the wireless specifics. In this presentation, I will focus mainly on the updates of the They're not able to hear you if you can sort of get a a... Maybe just hold the mic, just hold it Okay, I hope now it's better Thanks. So I was saying that this presentation is mainly focused on the update of the multi-dom extensions draft, but I will also present at the end very briefly some material on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "experimental platform and experimental prototype that we are doing in a research project basically addressing some of the old the deadnet related proposal and also the dead net related bringing to the to the working group That's why we also added Mark from Erickson on the on the cover phase of the presentation although he's not an author of the draft itself So going to the main point that the draft, Drath, Bernardo's deadener, romalti domain, the scope originally or the motivation originally, came because of the point that in raw, we were not doing, we didn't do that much work focusing on multidomain most of the work was focused on single domain. In that net there is, it's true that there are mentioning of multi-domain in different documents, but it's also true that we didn't really go into the details of looking at what are the gaps and what are the chat challenges that may involve maybe may require supporting multiple domains So that was the initial starting point. We realized that there are some scenarios that may require multi-domain Initially, we were focusing on wireless, but again, also involving wire domains Basically, scenarios where we may have a whole connected to one domain, having a communication with a host connected to a different domain, and still requiring a determinism requirements and availability and reliability One simple example, of one of these scenarios may be a large factor that may be others in which we have multiple domains because of organization reasons, and you may want to have communications between the different domains and be aware or an important message is that now that we are broadening the scope, to support also wire domains by multi-domain, we mean multiple administrative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "domains, so domains that are managed by different administrative entities, but even if they are managed by the same administrative entity, when we have a wireless domain and a wire domain there are some considerations that make the scenario multi-domain because we we have different technologies or different solutions that we may need to adapt to support this type of scenario So the idea was to explore the new the road now the DEN-NET potential multiple domain gaps that may exist in architecture in IIM mechanisms, in other type of protocol solutions that we may need to support And some of the requirements and the gaps are already partially covered in the dead net control of the framework that as Lou mentioned is close to be finalized hopefully but there are still some other things that we believe may require attention from the working group if there is interest in this type of problem problem Doesn't move to the next one. No, okay, sorry. So this is a separate figure. Basically in the draft, now there are two figures, the original one that focused on multi-domain only wireless. And we added a new one trying to reflect the scenario, which you may have a map domain on the top that is wireless raw domain apologies because still using the old terminology with the PSC and all the stuff and you to update that But I guess for the sake of representation, it would work. And then in the bottom, we have a wired deadnet type of domain. So, of course the domains might be interconnected using multiple paths and the domains may be wired or wired in case both domains are wireless probably the connection between them will be wireless and there may be a phase required to set up this links wirelessly between the different domains and since the domains are mobile they may be even mobile and there may be things to be done to maintain those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "links or to dynamically update those links. This is out of the score of the draft. We assume that there are some communication links between the domains and the things that we look into the draft is how to enable using those links to support multi-domain communications with the termination requirements And for that, we foresee or we identify that there may be inter-PCE or inter-control playing functionality work between the different domains, and also some inter-domain coordination between the different entities And with that in mind, we did a first type of high levels solution. I will not go into the details here They are in the draft, but the idea is that you have a host connected to one domain, requirements and communications with deterministic characteristics with another host connected to another domain. The ingress, note, dead net or raw node in the domain one will require or request the path to towards the second domain that will be done to the people to the note in the second domain where the final host is attached to that will get to the PCE of the first domain. The PC of the first domain will know what are the PC of the second domain or the control plane function there will be some interactions there. Here, there are some examples basically requesting that different paths that are available between the different domains and the quality of the links that are between them. That will allow the domain one to identify what are the notes and what are the paths that have to be established between the two domains and in the second domain and also do a kind of split of the QS the SLA is required on both domains to maintain, to be maintained on each domain to end the two domains and in the second domain and also do a kind of split of the QS the SLA is required on both domains to maintain to be maintained on each domain to ensure the end-to-end SLA with the deterministic characteristics. Then additionally, we'll need to set up some OIA mechanisms of both domains to be able to react fast and in time to potentially changes that may require changes on the per-pack for wording that is done at each of the dead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "and row notes on each of the domains and that's basically the high level very quick idea that we have there just as an example of potential things that we may need to do to support multi-domain in this specific assessment row notes on each of the domains and that's basically the high level very quick idea that we have there just as an example of potential things that we may need to do to support multi-domain in this specific this has been presented in the row working group and the net networking group The last time was in IETF 119 and one of the main comments that we got was that we should depart from the raw specific only a scenario and try to embrace also deadnet. So try to make it deadnet and not raw specific. This is something that we have started to do in the last revision, that this is the main change that I just presented and I usually the question will be from my side to see whether there is interesting the world group to address this type of problem either with this type of document or in different documents or in different pieces of already existing documents. And if so, the question will be how we should do it from the working group perspective and also asking the chairs if there are feedback on how to do that. So I'm not asking for adoption of this or anything like that. I'm just asking, is there interest in this type? of problem? And then if so, how we can address that? Before you move to this, I just want to see if there's any questions on the document, because this is, you know, you're moving a little bit into a different topic You know, is in the queue. You know, go ahead. Juno, go ahead you Bernard thank for the presentation. Can you hear me? Yes. Oh, thank you. I think it is a very interesting topic, but the diagram you just you just showed it seems quite generic generic in the sense that any type of multi-domain network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "has to consider is there any special requirements for providing deterministic performance? for example um yeah there are many data plane solutions that we are currently pursuing And based on that, data plan solution, I think the control plane and the management plane operation themselves have to be quite different So I'm just asking if you have any data plan solution in mind. Thank you okay thanks thanks for the feedback and the question So basically what we foresee is not that much change needed in terms of data plan we can use any of the data planes that are specified by the Actually, we have a test that already supporting multi-domain on the dead-end data plane, and this is something that will summarize in the next part of the slides. So we have already something working on multi-domain with three different domains using deadnet data plane. So here what we foresee is maybe needed is control plane extensions to basically synchronize the different domains to be able to have the information required at each domain to ensure that the end-to-end communication will meet the requirement from the deterministic point of view latency reliability, whatever is required. That's where we believe there is work to be done, not that much into the deadnet data plane more on the control plane and here the diagram is kind of generic. It's a potential type of solution, but it's on the control play kind of thing. So trying to interconnect and put in place the different mechanisms required to have this information for the setup of them multi-domain paths. I don't know if that address your question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "I think we should move on in the queue Go on, you are the next one in the field Do you hear me? Yes Yeah, I have two concerns The first one is the same with Gino Gino They need to clarify the recipe Ginole It needs to clarify the recipe for the data for the genome mentioned a data link solutions, extensions clarify the specific internet for Regina mentioned the data plan solutions, we have some drops to extend it it their program. And the second term, I'm sorry to interrupt by your initial question while your initial question came through clearly, you're breaking up quite back now. So I apologize Perhaps put it in chat and we'll read it for you if that would be okay and we'll give you a moment Okay, thank you. And Shusong? Hi, can you hear me well? I think so. We'll see how the rest of it goes. Yeah yes, I want to confirm that Carlos have some very good contribution to the controller framework controller plan framework document and the multi-domain consideration has already been ended in that of the document. And the other point is that considering the framework document is just, you know, a very general description of this part So I think this work is still very necessary And I noticed that there is some, you know, protocols interworking that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "has been introduced in this work and wondering whether there is any exact protocol that is in mind to be ex extended to, you know have this functionality Okay. I think this is a question. Thanks for the comment Regarding the question, we haven't yet even defined or selected a specific protocol per se. We try to identify the semantics require, the logic required, and then that will be part of the next steps For the working group, there is interesting working on this, and for us, either way, in some of the activities that we are pursuing, as I will summarize in the next part of the presentation, to select a control plane that we could extend existing control plane that we could extend with the required extensions for the multi-domain But we, I mean, here we are focusing on the kind of the logic, not really on the protocol-specific points Okay, so you must understanding, you mean that the protocol will be kind of the next step of the work, right? Yes, yes. Okay okay, I understood. Thanks I'm assuming Kwan didn't want to ask her question here and we'll ask it on the list. You have a few more minutes to go through the rest of the same Yeah okay thanks so very very quickly because this is not the main point of the presentation and I just I have some slides that I will go very quickly, just for you to have the material there, and if there are questions, you can contact me offline or on the list, even better So basically we are working in a project in a couple of projects projects okay thanks one of them is called data-driven 60 data-driven, and it's basically looking to the deterministic tensions to 5G and future 60 networks, so on the time-sensitive"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "side, on the reliability and availability We are doing different things there and by me by we I mentioned the university I work with, working that is using and also mainly Erickson, Spain For example, we are doing some stuff on the time-aware schedules. We have already implementation of AO2.111 QB and they are working on the 2.1QC stuff on the time-aware schedules. We have already implementation of AO2.111 QB, and they are working on the 2.1 QCR implementation. There is also some AI AI-based digital solution to improve the performance and avoid the need to modify packets on the path then on the reliability availability more on the probably on the 10-net things that have been done here already on the data plane, for example We have an implementation of the Frere in a multi-domain environment that multi-domain environment comprises and why Wi-Fi intel extended pay a multi-domain environment. That multi-domain environment comprises a Wi-Fi Intel extended base. It's a Wi-Fi experimental Wi-Fi 7 Intel base setup with the thermistic extensions We have a commercial PSN setup with several out switches, and we also have a 5G domain. In the 5G domain, we have a couple of variants. We have one based on the Exxon pre-commercial hardware, and we have another one based on open interface. So basically with these three different techniques, domains, we managed to have end-to-end determinism to some extent of course And on the data plane, this is already implemented and we are now working on the control plane required to dynamically modify this, maybe according to the draft i presented or according to whatever the working group uh does if the working group goes into the management extensions Some of these results regarding the multi-domain, but we are also doing all the things like mobility and some other stuff are being evaluated and validated through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "of course academic papers and there are some example there and also, and some industrial demos or some kind of prototype POC profancy there are some example there and also and some industrial demos or some kind of prototype POC proof of concept for example one that we are doing on a smart factory industry for the zero scenario in a sister project that is the pre-distics And then the next slides slides are presenting some of stuff we are doing I will not go into the details for example we have a software switch that was the developed to allow us playing with all the deadnet data playing that support and traffic classification, switching routing the PV support this is marked the jittering that we are doing and some ongoing work. This is just to you to make you a word that we have this type of support available and we could even get in touch for maybe reducing part of this in other efforts. Next slide, please We have also the QEV schedule implemented and we are playing with that and how to complement that with other slicing techniques that we can use to prioritize some traffic over other traffic and then we also have the next slide the frame implementation, where we are playing with some stuff that is not standard compatible, we are playing with standard attack that breaks .1c one CFB actually but we are playing on what we can achieve in our particular implementation with this additional extended ERT tag where we have a time stamp feel that allow us to measure and to and to do the the elimination in a different way and I see that blue you are on the well wait for the end okay and then go to the next one which is a actually just the acknowledgement and this is a set of things that we have. I plan to send on the mailing list when we have public documents going into more details on all these things and open source that we may release. But just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "for you to know that we are doing things on the dead net implement in different environments, one is multi-domain and that means for the working group so feedback is always welcome Okay, I'm going to read a comment from Kwan So two concerns for multi-domain with PCE. One is that it needs to clarify the specific requirements for dead net The data plane solution, which Jinu mentioned, has been discussed in PCE extensions and other individual directions The second concern is that what is the difference between inter-domain and multi-domain? for deadnet? I think that's a good question because the, for example, the P and multi-domain for deadnet? I think that's a good question because the, for example, the PCE documents that have been done and talk about inter-domain, not multiple So that's Kwan's question. I don't know if you want to answer Yeah, on the inter-domain versus multi-domain, I guess the mean is that terminological probably question, so I don't know if I would get the point correctly but the inter domain is when you have domains that you have to inter- interconnect, not necessarily having domains that a lot of don't know if I would get the point correctly but interdomain is when you have domains that you have to interconnect not necessarily having domains that belong to different administrative domains potentially And here we are supporting both. So I'm using multi-domain but we could use inter-domain, because if we have multiple domains, or a couple of domains or three domains that belong to the same administrative domain, but have different technologies, we still require some additional mechanisms because I we have multiple domains or a couple of domains or three domains that are belong to the same amissative domain but have different technologies we still require some additional mechanisms because as far as I know with the today dead net architecture we don't have mechanisms in place to support this and if in addition to that we have multiple domains from an administrative point of view. We also have all the stuff required to the the authentication authorization all the all the administrative part to put into to integrate multiple domains and that's at on top of the interdomain, we have this multiple domain staff that we need to, to talk okay thank you uh shusong you're going to be the last in this session, or this slot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "uh yeah uh carlos actually i think the last part you have shared about the project is very interesting I noticed that the previous rule work is mainly about the, you know, the Wi-Fi wireless consideration and this time you mentioned some you know, 5G or 6G related work. I think it's a very good try choice. So my question is that whether this project is also, you know, related to them mobile standard work, for example, 3GPP or it's just, you know, still tech technical project that is, you know, only discussed about the technical implementation So can you say again the last part because I missed the Whether this also have some relation with with the standard other standard group like 3GPP, or it's just, you know technical project in the existing stage yeah although we we don't have a actual delegate kind of going to 3GPP, basically we are assuming what 3GPP has done so far we implemented the latest releases in terms of deadness support and we are then looking at how to integrate that with multiple domains and whether there is something required on that side as well so we are not going there we are doing our kind of standard dissemination path through IETF mainly but the idea is to look at at the multi-domainment problem, not only from the IETF side, but from all the SDO side, although 3DPP is using deadnet that's the solution that we have for that. So we believe that by going through the ATF, if there are other changes required we'll go to 3GPS as well thank you for keeping us up to date in this work I suspect at some point we will get to an adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "poll, but you're not asking for that now, you're just asking for an update But if you can take the comments that you've heard here, and do another update, that would be appreciated I think Shusong said something really important which is that the multi-domain implication, that you've raised have already been incorporated into the control plane frame If you can also look at the other documents, like the raw architecture and make sure that multi-domain or inter-domain is captured there as well, that would be helpful. So thank you and we look forward to hearing about this in the future. With that, Genu, you're up Thank you Okay. Yeah This is Dave. I'm Gino Jon, remotely remotely joining. And this is data playing in some of the taxonomy draft So, the summary it was adopted as working group draft on May, so the easier version was created on May as well And it has been updated to version 1 on July The only updates in version 1 is the addition of the reference topple As you can see, as a section 6. It has a brief, a generic description on what reference topology is is. And one exemplary reference topology yeah called Greed. I will briefly explain about the reference topology So why we need reference topology? in the taxonomy draft? Because taxonomy is taxonomy and reference topology is quite a different thing But we are still having two different things in a single"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "draft why we do that because there was a strong comment from the previous meeting And I think, and we think the other thing, the reference, topologies are to evaluate the data playing solutions how they perform in real situations in terms of end-dutal latency bound, then Jita bound So the scope of the document has been quite expanded a lot, and I think the reference topology can profoundly impact all the other comments. So we have decided to focus on the RT only in this revision. Yes, there are please note that there are unresolved comments from the previous meeting As you can see as follows, you can take a look But it is now addressed in this review revision So before going further, I would like to define clearly what reference topology is A reference topology has to kind of things. First, the network topology and second, flows characteristics The network topology specifies the abstract locations of source, destination nodes and their interconnections this is a conventional definition of topology Second, the flow creates characteristic has to be included The flow characteristic is about their path their requested performance specification we call it R-spec R-specacation, and traffic specification R-spec may include a end-duty latency and jitter bounds And T-spec includes the maximum birth size and the average rate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "as if they have been shaped by a token package I think this is very much important specification in order to get the performance numbers or alternatively a flow can be specified by the maximum birth size so there are two alternatives of the t spec Actually, I'm not seeing the time pan I'm not seeing the time passing through but okay, anyhow, I will So, this is until so far, we have, we have specified about what RT is From here, we have presenting exemplary ART called Greed It has nine nodes placed in a grid and there are six sources and six destinations placed like that It represents a general network of partial mesh or grid topology without considering a specific use case so it is very generic topology One thing unique in this topology is that the links are used unidirectional So the direct of the link follows the blue arrowed path The flows should always follow the blue arrows And the capacity of all the links in the topologies is one gigabit per second Why? we have chosen such a top topology? One of the main regions, is that we had to like to have cycles"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "in the topology as shown as the red circles. There are four cycles in the topology, and these cycles create burst accumulation, especially when a simple scheduler is used such as fee-for or strict priority schemes that is used in DIV server architecture In this software, used, such as FIFO or strict priority scheduler that is used in deep-server architecture. In this methodology, when the network utilized, such as simple schedulers, do not guarantee Android's latest bound bound So we'd like to see whether our data playing solutions can guarantee end-tent latency bound in such a kind of complex topology That's the main region So I just I just present the network topology. From now on, I will talk about the flow specification While the network topologies itself is very generic, I would like, we would like to have a very specific flows and their specifications So we have examined the right choices and among those we have chosen the flows used in the in-vehicle networks There are some references you can see in the slide in the last slide In those references, the observed flow for deterministic services in in-vehicle net talks are three types, audio flows, video flows commands and control flows They have such characteristics. For example, video flow are very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "bursty. As you can see, 30 maximum maximum length packets are am emitted at once. We call these burst, right? And this burst, emitted once in 30 milliseconds. So that's the period And so on. And based on the application the deadline or the end-to-end latency bound is 10 or 30 milliseconds. So this is quite this is quite strong deadline, I would say And so on. And there are many different scenes flows. For example, they can have about 50 bytes or 300 300-byte packets. And they are periods can vary from 5 to 80 milliseconds So this kind of observation has been reflected in our document that the flow types are simple audio, video, video flows are simply and abstracted into these parameters you can see in the table one one But we can say that maybe we have over oversimplified, especially the CNC flow This can be enhanced in the further version of the future version of the draft Because as you can see, there are various types of CNC flows, but in the current form of the RT example, we have only one type of CNC flow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Okay, so in order to see simplify further for the simplicity of analysis, the flows that are just shown in the table one, has been aggregated with roughly 1 to 10 ratio so here they are not called audio video CNC but just they are called flow type ABC And the human birth size has been increased 10 times as well as the arrival rates But the maximum packet length, and required maximum latency is the same and so on Yeah, I just briefly mentioned about the flow characteristics here T-spec and R-spec Finally, how the flow choose their paths. This should be very simple, but in fact in our example, RT, it is very complicated So I don't want to spend too much time You can take a loop the slice I will just go through very briefly Simply put there are 36 flows overall because each source generates a flow to each destination So it's six times six So there are 36 flows overall And each type has specific destination node For example, type A flows are destined only to destinations 1 or 6 So in this figure, in the lower left side, you can see the blue flow from source 1 to destination 6. It has to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "follow the unidirectional links from node 14589 to destination 6, and this has to be type A flow because it is destined to destination 6, as you can see in the table 2 and so on and a little confusing to make you understand at this very moment but in short we have some rule. We have some rule to rule for plastic But in short, we have some rule. We have some rule to rule for a path decision. And if we follow that rule, that gives the unique path, at least in this topology Okay so this is the example of flow type A, flow type B flow type C. And this three colors in blue, green, and reds are of their maximum hope counts So from source to destination, these flows hope count is seven And as you can see, there are cycles. These flows are forming So with the simple architecture like DiffServe, there is no guarantee of latency bound are cycles, these flows are forming. So with the simple architecture like diff serb, there is no guarantee of latency balance. Okay and finally about the utilization of the network. Here, the PATHLEC link is between 2 and 3 and between 8 and 7 7 These two links are the Batleg link in the Badleg link there are one type a flow 5 type B flows, and 2 two type C flows I would say, type B flow replay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "the videos, so it is very versatile having five very bursty flows in a link is a big burden. So normally in the situation, guaranteeing end-to-end latency bound is very difficult And the network utilization about 53% Okay, a future plan I think as we have discussed in the previous meeting, we have to solicit more reference topologies, maybe two or three total and fix them and evaluate the data plan solutions with these reference topologies the performance metrics should be should end-to-end latency bound and ended-ditch bound should include Endothant latency bound and ended upto-tent Jeter bound, and maybe average latency should be included as well well and maybe more importantly the configuration complexity with dynamic flows join leave situation, how easy data plan solution can handle such a dynamic with less complexity they can be evaluated as well There's the major future plan. And we'll also resolve the comments raised in the previous meeting and during the this meeting comments Thank you I hope I have met the time deadline thank you thank you you you know yeah we are over time but we have one question let's have that quick question, Shafu, and then move on to the next one one Hi, Genu, thank you for the presentation Yes, for the video flow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "there is a different term different audio and the CC flow So just wanted to confirm that the the bust of video flow, do you want to regulate the under network interest node? by a program bucket? Oh, thank you for the question, yeah yeah When you say T-spec, when we say we have to specify the maximum birth size and average arrival rate and maybe additionally make length. These are three very important parameters of this back if we cannot specify these three met parameters, then we can say that we don't know any anything about the TISP, the flow itself how the flow it looks like So these three parameters are very important Okay, thank you Okay, I will discuss in the bare list. Yes, thank you Okay, Jeuneu, I have two different topics The first one is, thank you for the really good work and the update. I believe there were comments made at the last meeting at 119 that have not yet been incorporated. Is that correct? And if so, what is your plan to address? those comments? Yeah I have I have issued you six comments that is not resolved yet yet I'm not sure Soliciting more reference topologies is more important"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "I think. But at the same time, some of the comments can be resolved parallelly those comments will be resolved the authors will discuss about those comments and try to resolve a soon as possible. Okay, thank you It is reasonable to say that you are going to address them after getting in the reference the apologies. That's a reasonable approach, if that's the authors there approach, it's just good for the working group to know The other comment is I'd like to highlight this last slide. The you know, what we're trying to do here with the taxonomy is give us a framework for evaluating the different solutions So this third bullet is pretty important and we are hoping that once we have the taxonomy, sort of flushed out and including addressing the comments from the last meeting we can go and look at the different solutions and help categorize them and sort of just describe them in a way that allows the working group to decide which of those we'd like to advance. So this is really important work and we appreciate the work that the author's team is, the author team is doing and thank you for the presentation And from the working group, please continue to comment thank you so next okay thank you i will focus on the evaluation thank you thank you so much appreciate it and yeah I will yeah, I will present the C-score draft Yeah, thank you for the con Yeah, I will briefly introduce the history of the C-Score It has been included in a different draft called ADN framework for large scale"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "The ADN framework draft has been initiated like two years ago And C's core was just one of the asynchronous data playing solutions introduced there There has been discussions, revisions and so on, but there was a request from working group that CSCO has to be said separated as an independent trap So, but request from working group that C-Score has to be separated as an independent trap. So, like one year ago, more than one year ago, this draft has been created and been through intent debates, discussions and revisions until the previous meeting However, after the taxonomy draft has been introduced, there has been no comments at all, no single comments So in this revision, only the minor editorial updates and the titles has been revised The editorial updates are very minor I will just briefly introduce The definition of an entrance node has been added. It is the edge node through which flow enters a network that is called entrance node And it has been specified that C-Score is based on the virtual clock This sentence has been added. The document of the virtual clock's approach. Of course, the descriptions and explanation about what virtual clock is is already there and the concept of system potential which is equivalent to virtual time has been completely removed because these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "two concepts are same thing And don't need to be repeated So it has been removed And the following has been specified that the service rate should be chosen to be larger than or equal to the rate of the flow. So these are all my minor, minor editorial updates out following has been specified that the service rate should be chosen to be larger than or equal to the rate of the flow. So these are all minor, minor editorial updates, I would say And this has been updated as well, that it has been emphasized that the complete in the entrance node can be mitigated by adding more sentences The yellow highlighted part is what has been added I think you can take a look. In summary, the entrance node functionality can reside in the source itself, and that's how the complexity of the entrance node, which has to keep the flow state is created mitigated and the subsection titles are revised slightly I should have shown you the old titles but I forgot to do that. Anyhow, the revision here is to reflect what the subsection are, subsections are trying to do. So it's more explanatory subsection titles. They explain better what the subsections are trying to do Yeah, that's it. I think the draft is now stable. And in the future, when the reference topologies of the taxonomy draft becomes stable, this score will be available and will be compared"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "to other data plan solutions And if that happens, I think, I hope what group adoption will be done maybe in the next year And after the adoption of depth, a new draft for end-to-end jito jitter-bound guarantee will be present Remember that the current draft is about the end-to-end length bound guarantee, right? So there is another solution completely author orthogonal, independent solution. They can bound Jeter guarantee That will be presented in the future. Thank you Thank you very much Any questions, comments? Okay, next up is Shafu You have 10 minutes Hi, DC this is Salfourke for Lomitie Metziti. I will present that the 9 best of wording magnet You have control, you can flip the slides. Thank you I just control. Yes in this way are just how some of the control. Yes, uh, in this region, we just have a normal update from version 9 to 11 11 For Anthemar, we supplement the fig of ED decarboning with two tile schedulers for each understanding. And the clerk that is needing drawing in the fig, example of policing and the next entries node And third, we considering the frequency synchronality synchronization So this fig"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "shows the internal components of ED decarboning operations with two tire schedulers The packet is scheduled by pre-scarulator configured with untimable mode based on the latency deviation E. And turn, scheduled by the post-schedler configured with Y interim mode based on the blunt residence time D. The pre-schedular may maintain a five article or a platform So this is the second update uh, yeah, uh, policing and increase is important for the success work of EDF. So this figure shows the flow pattern after policing that is different to the original flow pattern when we see the under income interface The time when the pocket departed looked later and arrived at the scheduler is termed as arrive time as which is used to the in-co operation that is at the time, arrive time as VHQ or buffer position is a pro operator for the pocket to be inserted So, the third application is about the frequency singularization considerations In theory, what or not? the synchronization of crystal? oscillator frequencies between devices may affect EDF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "computation of residence time compared to the nominal time However, I each node the latency error caused by the clock range from it is nominal rate For example, minus 100 ppm is generally in the nanosecond range and can be ignored For example, for the plan for the plan nanosecond range and can be ignored. For example, for the planned time, for the planned time, 100 microseconds, the latency error by minus 100 ppm may be approximately 10,9 seconds So 100 whops only accumulate one microseconds So this is a review of CDF taxonomy analysis for its understanding it is first future. A CDF is a number non-periodic synchronous class level worker concern non-worker-conservable configurable, in-time and untimple configurable, delay-based scheduling scheme and the proper latency-dom dominate the fuck is delay-lawed itself We will further Ewanian-based and reference topology later So this is the presentation of this slide. Any questions and comments, thank you you Any questions? Okay, thank you. I think you're also the next presenter presenter So, okay, the next presentation is about the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "TIGA for mechanism Firstly, well, will report the split and give up quick status update. According to the received comments, the original draft is divided into two documents one document for the data play, and then we use the original label. And the other for the controller plane. This slide focus on the data play. The main updates from version 6 to 8 contains some added load text reflecting the character of TKF and supplement the BTM or BOM or Detection Method reference that is a stamp extension and the supplemented encapsulation of time slot stack method reference, that should be complicit due to explicit load of dead net flow So this is a review of Tika mechanism and there is no significant update We use OPL the orchestration peer-read lens to identify the related TIGRF instance enabled and link. The Outsubstetrician peer is similar to the gating cycle of the and TAS a water node links within the designated path, interwork with the same OPL. For the same OPL, different links may configure different times load lengths. For example, the edge nodes and core nodes may configure different times load lengths. A TKF instance, may instantiate scheduling period that construct less number of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "slots than a truestration period based on the hardware capacity of the device TGF instance may further configure in-time mode for no delay or ultimat mode for low Jeter It should be noted that the TIGER is a layer three solution and can all operate over different types of QO sensitive layer 2, including T TSN. For example, release confirming traffic passport to the layer two network Gigaf is not an alternative to TSN So for the TTIB, all BOA detection of a unidivacional link, a stamp extension is defined Based on the BTM or BOMO, a designate flow may be assigned outgoing time sleep on each link and obtain FTA that has bounded latency Fote in Kavsulis of time slot ID stock, we have two basic design considerations One is that I we have two basic design considerations. One is that an easy link, time slot ID is used to identify the time load resource. And it is better to decap time load ID and any type of topology instructions such as IP address, marker address, MPS label, SRVC seed to save topology instructions and the related signaling advertisement The second design consideration is that the encapsulation should be complicit to support explicit loads of designated paths as well as flow interlevening and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "core nodes by the time-support ID stack So two possible complex paths, as well as flow interleven and core nodes by the time-sload ID stack. So two possible comprehensive encapsulation methods are defined One is short index-based and the other is common prefix-based Okay so this is a real of TQAF a real takeaway analysis for its understanding It is a future a way of TGraph taxonomy analysis for its understanding. It is FKGF is a periodic frequency synchroness class level, worker-conservant configurable, in-time and answer is a periodic frequency synchronous, class level, work-conservant, non-work consulving configurable, in-timer and untimple configurable, timer-based scheduling scheme and the prohibitive factor configurable. Timber-based scheduling scheme, and the probability-dominated factor, is the time slot offset of FTA ftm This is the presentation of TIGA for any questions and comments. Thank you Questions, comments? So I request the next time you present, if you could include some feedback or just a summary of the discussion from the other working groups, I think you're presenting also in six-man and maybe IPPM And if we can get updates of what's happening in those groups as part of the presentation that would be, I think, helpful Okay, thank you so much Kieran, I think we're up to you Kiran, you look a little different today Kieran's in the room but we have Luis"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:04",
    "text": "Yeah, right. Yeah, right right So, hello everybody, this is Luis. I will present the update of the draft and Michael for my co-auth and the topic is about the using the term deterministic networks for industry operations and control. Next please So the idea of the draft was to focus on the UNI so how we can, from the application perspective, request the flows that could be according to the specific deterministic characteristics, and the idea would be to explore that kind of APIs or interfaces in such a way that we can somehow request that from the application site let's say and the idea with this would be to be able to provide able to provide some information to the network so that the network can receive the necessary resources for enforced the expectation of the application in terms of performance and the deterministic behavior in general. Next, please So as an overview, this is the version 04 of the document. We already presented in the past the document In IETF117, we go through that and providing some background and motivation for it So somehow we try to cover the gap of this specification, how the application goes somehow request the services Also, we introduce some types of traffic patterns that we have now reviewing in the new version. I recommend later on And at that point on time, we were working on with the idea of proposing some extension for IPBC header so that we can embed in that extension the way of a how to specify the flows The feedback that we received at that time was some concerns about the usage of some station headers This could be or could be was identified as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "risk, not a risk It's a question mark how to go through that We also were requested to have a tight alignment or better alignment with the TSA work and also to simplify the suggestion or simplifying and maybe reorienting the draft so that we can concentrate on the specific purpose of the UNI. Next please So with that that feedback we start working on the new version. New version is number 03 In this version we have removed the station of header This has been a pass or moved to the appendix, so we yet have this documented, but there is no emphasis on that. So it could be a potential way of doing that, but not necessarily the unique one way to do so and also we have added we have revisiting the traffic types that we identified in the past and we have a aligned them with the specification, the IEC IEEE-E, 6802, TSE profile for industrial automation in that specification there is a specific say, a detail of different traffic flows we will see later on So we are taking those and considering those as the ones that we can apply in the document so no remit in the wheel reducing what it is already there Well, there is here a screenshot of what could be the different traffic of interest. We will see the there are two more about best effort, but that would be basic the ones requested or requiring requiring technicality behavior. Next, please deterministic behavior. Next, please. So going into the detail in this table, you can see the different traffic types on the column of the traffic type, the ones that are defining the IEC, ICC specification synchronous, cyclist synchronous network control, and arms and event"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "and configuration diagnostics, that would be the ones requiring some determinism. And then to type of besephor flows basic for high and besephor low What we have considered here, what part of the way of identifying the flows, that is also part of the IEEE specification. We have defined, we have proposed we are proposing the number of parameters in order to specify that API that could allow the applications to request the specific behavior So for asynchronous, we different characteristics will be that the application controller, in the case of the traffic flow is asynchronous does not require to specify or different characteristics will be that the application controller, in the case of the traffic flow is asynchronous, that's not required to specify the clock source and also the there is some tolerance to the packet loss rate For network control, the idea here would be to control the capabilities of the network, loop prevention, topology detection and time synchronization. For an arm is clear the performance monitoring and for the diagnosis basically, to deliver packets time to time and collect the device configurations. Next, please So we are proposing this kind of APIs. It's an initial proposition, probably we need to go more in detail and understand if this is the proper one or we need to revisit, but basically what we are proposing in the document are different API formats considering the traffic type, considering the deadline limit what different attributes the deadline limit time the line limit time units application flow reference the course source for whatever traffic type that required it what different attributes, the deadline limit time, the line limit time units, application flow reference, the cross source for whatever traffic type that required the identification of the cloud source. Burr's limit, retransmit and so on so far. So different properties that could apply to these flows so that the application have a full suite of capability for expressing the need of the flow before entering the network Next please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "So, and the idea as well would be to be agnostic from the way in which we can we can enforce this would be to be agnostic from the way in which we can enforce, let's say this, we can specify we can provide the specification of the flows to the network This could be down out of van or of path So via a controller using that models and so how the controller is the one that can define this different traffic types and prepare the network for supporting them. But also could be a used in band so that we could have the signal on path and the application could express their needs The station headers or additional service would layer are potential approaches, as said, so we keep yet in the annex the description for the IPv6, but we can revisit that And just to mention that framing in some existing projects, we are planning a POC idea would be to leverage on before for yeah playing with the with the headers and so and trying to somehow provide a conceptual validation of the idea this is yet under analysis and we need to see if it would be ready for next idea, for maybe for one to one or one or one or one to two. This is just a plan We need to do the complete plan and I think that that's all. So yeah thank you thank you Antoine, please go ahead Hello, Andor Sanko I have a question regarding the data plan agnostic approach Here you have applied out of one where basically you have a controller sharing the control info information. Then you use the second solution is you have an extensionator carrying the information Did you consider using like RAS VB? for traffic engineering and carrying the specification? of the flows in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "the information. Did you consider using like RASVP for traffic engineering and carrying the specification of the of the flows in a control message that is not going from a controller but distributed in the decentralized? fashion but not in the data plane we have not entered into those details could be a matter of consideration. We have not considered at that point but could be a could be a matter of consideration we have not considered we don't discuss yet at that point but could be a potential option yes okay thank you thank you Any further questions, comments? Okay, thank you for the update. We look forward to your next one I think you said it might be one meeting, maybe two, but look forward to it. Thank you And we are actually on the last slot of the session We will have a couple of more on Thursday Alash. Hi, good morning My name is Volash Varga and in this presentation, I will speak about the new Depnett data plan. And it is based on the SRV technology. The slides that is practically a summary of two drafts because we have uploads two drafts, one to the debt network group and one for the Spring Group The debt network group related draft is describing all the details about the that net data plane, as we have defined for IP and PLS data plane The other draft uploaded to the Springwork Group is a description of the pre-of-seed, because in order to support that net, you need a specific seed in order to include in the IP header the sequence number information and the spring document is describing the SRV6 vehicle according to the RU rules and descriptions of Spring. So this is the relationship between the two graphs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "drafts Then we are just looking to the data plane history. Then in the data in the data networking architecture, we have defined the two sub sublayers, the surveys and the forwarding sub layers And the first, that net IP data plane, it was intended to be a universal IP data plane for that net which works for both IPV4 and IPV6 And unfortunately there are a limitation regarding that because there were no option in both protocols to add the sequence number information but is needed for the service protection functionality. So in RFC, 8939, there is a limit that the death net service sublayer is not supported by the Deadnet IP data plate This is something that was worked around in a recent RFC 9560 which is practically combined the Blacknet Sunderwire and NPRS-over-U-D technologies in order to allow pre-of functionality and the service protection for the IP data plane. However, these draft assumes that at some level you are supporting some MPLS functionalities on the node. So it was not a native IP solution for the for the functionality functionality Regarding that, that two sets, practically there are three tools, two sets that we are using, resource allocation, service protection, and explicit rules. In this, slide and in the draft, we are focusing on the latest two on the service protection"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "how to provide the pre-functionality, and it is usually combined with explicit rules so it is something but can be combined easily in the SRV technology If we would like to have a native pre-of support in IPV6, then the task that has to be solved is to add a sequence number to the IP header And the option that we have described in the draft is we use existing IPV6 header fields This slide is practically summarizing the three major building blocks but what we have described in order to create the Datnet SIR IP data brain So first of all, there was a new that net specific seed format defined and that is capable to contain the sequence number information, but is used by the previous instances The second building block is that we have this described how to place in the argument field of the seed the flow ID and the sequence number information So this is practically defined the death net specific seed And the third block is about to the define the seed behaviors for this death net specific seeds, but we are in intending to use in that net networks There is one endpoint behavior defined and there are four policy headers behaviors defined In the segment through things, architecture, if you're speaking about SRV they are stating that the seed is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "represented by 100% 128 bit, practically. And there are three paths of that seed. There is a locator part and this is that is practically pointing a specific SRV6 node. You know that seed. There is a locator part, and this is what is practically pointing a specific SRV6 node. In our case, this will point to the death net relay node, which is the next dead net relay node on a path for a given flow The function, this is particularly describing what function you would like to execute on that specific node, which is defined by the locator. And here that function that we are looking for is the real functionality So with that function, we can point the P of functionality of the specific SSI node. And the third part, and this is very interesting, for us in that net environment the arguments field This is a field, but the optional, and this is very you can place arguments for the function. And in the case of pre-off, these are practically the flow idea and the sequence number information. So this is what we will focus on in the next slide But before, before doing so, maybe let's make a short calculations So how many bits we need in order to place these two arguments for pre-off? in the seed? Looking to the flow, I did this is what is specifying the death net flow the packets belong to. And if we are speaking about the death net MPLS, data plan, then we have defined that 20 p flow ID in order to do that. In order to be compatible with that, practically, we are proposing in the SIPv6 environment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "also use a 20-bit flow ID because that makes more easily to change technology domains if you have multiple in that development domain Regarding the sequence numbers, they can use up to 28 bits There are various size defined. So that means that the maximum side of these parameters can be 48 bits And if we are looking to some recommendation in RFCs, in drafts, about SR6 technology, then when the common exactly, is where you have a 64-bit locator information, 16-bit portion discrimination and practically it there are exactly 48 bits remained for them argument parts. So that means that the flow idea in the sequence number fits per perfectly to such an allocation of SIPv6 seats This slide is showing technically the depth-specific seed. So you have the locator, you know, is your point to the next death net relay node. We have the function part, which will practically say that on that next, hope, that net relay node, you intend to use the preload functionality, even just with a single value you are fine in order to point to the pre-of-functionalities And in the arguments, you can place the flow ID and the sequence number information And here this figure in the right corner is practically showing a 16B sequence number example how to place those information in a data net specific scene"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "One important thing to highlight is that in case of the pre-of functionality, if your argument is zero, that can be also a meaningful value because it can refer to a flow ID zero, and the sequence number is just going around, because we have a circle sequence number space and zero is also a meaningful value. So this is something worth the word to note here If you have already this death-ness specific C, seed, then you have to define also the essence behaviors. And this is, this is, the described in detail in the spring document. And we have one endpoint behavior defined, and we have four policy head and behaviors defined Regarding the setup of the segment list, it might be noted that the death-net specific seed must be the last segment in the segment routine policy And that is coming also from the fact that these deadnet specifics seed is defining your next that net relay node where your SRV6 tunnel will be terminated So that is the reason why it must be the last one. And of course it is just why providing the arguments for the preoff functionalities Okay let's let's let's uh what is really needed in the case of your endpoint behavior If you have an endpoint, then this is where you will decapsulate your essence tunnel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "And practically, because your functionality will be the pre-of functionality, the red highlighted part is something really and specific to the death net pre- seed. You have to extract the argument part of the seed, and hand over it to the ground functionality together with the payload of the SRV tunnel. So with that you can ensure that the proud functionality will have the payload and it will also have the flow ID and the sequence number information with can be used by the pre-of functionality in all order to find out which pre-off instance to execute on that particular packet and whether it was already seen or not So that is practically what is needed for the preo function there are four encapsulation related behaviors defined This is where you are starting your SRV-16 tunnel to the next Datnet relay node So here you have already executed a pre-of function and from that you will know the flow ID and the sequence number related to the packet. And then you will have also a segment list, which is describing your explicit path over the network And this segment list put together with the death net specific seed will be placed in the segment within header. The last sheet is always the death net specific seed. So the argument part, for each packet have to be updated with the flow ID and the sequence"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "number information, because that is always packet specific. And the rest of the encapsulation is practically very similar to other encapsulation related segment routing policy behavior behaviors We have a very similar functionality defined for the case when you have layer two frame as a payload in the Datnet domain. And in that case, again, you have to create the a payload in the Datnet domain. And in that case, again, you have to create your segment list, update the argument of the last seed, the that not specific seed in the segment list during the encapsulation and placing the information in the segment within header information And of course, you do not have a ETL value and you have to set the next header value to your layer to enc observation So these are practically that specific seed seed-related behavior but have to be defined And there is also an interesting chapter in RFC 8986. This is a above the counters They have defined that for each of the seeds you have to create a pair of traffic counters one on a packet level, one on a byte level and that is something that can be very useful in SRV6 invite six environment. The thing that for pre-o, we have much more detailed counters for the pre-off functionality because if you would like to implement those functions you need those counters anyway But in order to be in line with the intention of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "RFC 809086, we proposed also for the death net specific seed, this canter should be created That can be those counters for example can give also information about all the deadnet traffic which is handled by that Datnet relay node in the network. So that makes sense to have those contests for the deadnet specific seed as well. And it is in line with the already defined behavior in the spring group So this one is just showing you the summary matter to be basic building blocks. The net specific in how to encapsulate in the argument, the flow idea, and the sequence number and but s006 see behaviors are related to this data depth-specific seed That's what we intended to show Any comments are highly welcome and we will be also happy to work with other people to ever further this data plan We have a song in the queue Go ahead Hi, Palat, thanks for the prevent I just want to remind that there has already been a working group document for this topic in spring working Group about two years ago, the background is that in that stage, spring working group has a very similar work, which is about replication segment for multicast, and that document has already been published as RC And in parallel, we want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "introduce some, you know, that's net protection mechanisms in spring working group based on SRV6 data plan So we have this document and there are some very good discussions in the main list in I think that net is also included and the Wehing Group think this is very mutual and the document has been adopted. So my I think a possible proposal is, if you are interested in this topic, maybe the work can be based on the existing working screen working group Yeah, thank you very much for that comment So I think that's interesting to highlight that there are significant differences in my understanding between this draft and that replication scene. The replication is seed solves only some of the functionalities, but we need for pre-off. So this is where I see the differences, but I definitely agree that this is something that we have to discuss further and see at least explicitly the differences and how they can be combined in the network So I think they are not prohibiting each other. They both see can be used in a network and I see some of a different use cases for those seats I noticed that there is some comment from Yannos about them there is some description in the back background part for the existing document in spring And I want to clarify that in the first stage we want to you know, put the work in Dana Working Group But at that stage, Dana Working Group, is, was focusing on the data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "plan based on MPS and the native IPA header. So it is considered that SR6, SR6-based work may be still not much enough for then may be, you know, still not virtual enough for Dendai working groups. So we bring that topic to Spring Working Group based on the Dandai Working Group suggestions So to clarify this working group's relationship, we keep this sentence in the introduction part So, but the, but actually, the function and the problem that should be solved for these two documents, I think are quite similar Although the document about the of functionality, is not, you know, published as I've seen, then that we can go documents, I think, are quite similar. Although the document about the functionality is not, you know, published as RFC in that time, but the whole idea is quite similar So I think I still would like to propose the orders of this new documents to at least reveal the document and clarify the relationship Okay, thank you Rakesh, please Thank you. Thank you. Thank you fields added in this systems. So there are two fields added in SRV6. One is flow ID So IPV6 already has a flow label It's also 20-bit. So have you looked at user? the flow label? Because it's not typically used for ECMP, but it doesn't apply here So have you considered using the flow label from IP? header itself and the second question is that this is the debt net seed is in the DA I believe destination address. If you're doing some kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "seed compression, that could be implicated So have you thought about putting those things? in the source address? uh for the net Yeah, thank you. These are exactly the comments where I intend to have some further work on this draft So regarding the flow labor, yes, it was already considered it is part of the that net IP data plan where we have included also the flow label in the flow identification possibilities and regarding the second aspects maybe just a very short comment but I think it is definitely worth for a longer discussion on the compression. So the death net specific seed must be always the last seed in your segment list Therefore, I think that compression might be not so interesting, but this is up to further discussion And depending on high you define exactly the depth specific seed I see also options in order to have some compression for them. So that is definitely a topic where I think we need some further discussions. So very good comments. Thank you Thank you. Thank you Thank you think we need some further discussions. So very good comments. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. I have a quick question for the clarification Currently, it seems that only the pre- function of dead net is considered. Are you planning to include any data plane special data planes? specific SID format? Because as in the previous in the previous meeting totalist plane solution specific SID format because as in the previous meeting meeting told us suggest some draft to specify the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "header format for the data players. I think the similar effort has to be done in this document as well Are you planning to extend your draft? into the inclusion of Data Plan solutions? specific SID format? Thank you You mean by the data page? solution the latency-related information? How to include that? Yeah currently in this meeting, I and Shaofu presented two different data solutions right? And each data solution requires its own header fields For example, for me, the finish time, such a field is required to be included in the header or in the SID If you plan to include that kind of information in the SIS, yeah, I would like to hear that. Thank you Yeah, I think that is also something for further discussion The human related information is something depending on the information format, you might have checked to include it in the, in a seed But of course, other other options are already available for that. So in this proposal we have just focused on the service sublayer in order to support those functional But if we extend this to the forward sublayer, I think that is also a interesting discussion to evolve further. This solution for just discuss about the existing proposals, how to converge in them. Thank you Okay, thank you Speaking as a contributor, just a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "comment reflecting on Chesson's point that, yes so it is of course good to evaluate the differences between the two drafts just to note for the record on maybe not everybody was paying attention that too much recollection, multiple comments made multiple times against that draft that it is not in line with the data architecture and the quoted sentence was the workaround. There was no true solution to bring it in line to that net architecture And in my understanding, the idea behind this new proposal is to have something truly according to the deadnet architecture yeah i think it would be good to distinguish how this differs from that earlier work because it seems like you know at first glance it seems like there's overlap So if there isn't, this document should call that out It also should justify why it is what value it's bringing and why we need a second solution, if at all Shusong, you get the last word on this Yes, I think maybe we can reconsider the relationship of these two doctors and whether we can seek some specific problem that could be reserved only in this document in line with that architecture. I think we can have more discussions offline Okay. And on the list. Go ahead, Belash. Yeah discussion offline and on the list Sure Thank you all for a, I think, a very good session I appreciate all the good contributions and discussion We will see you on Thursday Thank you. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "You're going to come to the open source routing launch launch?"
  }
]
