[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:05",
    "text": "so the problem yeah good morning everyone this is the wrong meeting [Music] I just join me take on Winston good morning this is the wrong meeting we will start now okay we have our first meeting yesterday um this is the not well please be aware that this meeting is aligned with that we will not read it but it applies to alight the of activities these are the meeting materials check out that eater pad inside the same done just read if we put them Monday thank you thank you thank you Michael Michael\u0027s country this I prescribed and mineus taken please okay thank you very much Alex I\u0027m Dominique thank you very much guys I appreciate mmm yeah the slides are complete said this is the second part please sign the blue sheets the blue sheets are there okay thank you okay thank you very much Pascal good teamwork here this is the agenda for today so we will start with this introduction then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "we go for Pascal with an hour live then we will keep some update and use of ripple info then Pascal or the Minich they are going to talk about the light India information to keep the semi status between the child and the father then Raul is going to provide his update for MP do and then Pascal is going to talk about the turn of a d138 we aim to do this working group adoption today I started and we are going to continue by mini list so then we have the upper floor comments for the gender okay we go forward Thank You Pascal thank you this graph is almost ready for last call we are asking for reviews yes basically we\u0027re from Cisco so this is about the ripple unaware leaf so there was a lot of activity on this document and the reason is that we actually found that it was a normative reference to other documents which were well advanced and so now the ripple unaware leaf is kind of holding other documents in miss rough state and we want to avoid keeping those documents in Miss rf2 too long so we ended up spitting some work on unaware leaf it is not a very complex document it is the application of RFC 8 5 4 5 which is agnostic to the routing protocol but still is a registration mechanism by a host to a router and in this case we explained how you can use RFC 8 505 to register to ripple services there are other documents at the ITF for instance in rift 400 proxy etc that also leverage RFC 8 5 for 5 at storage as a registration mechanism so this particular document is how a leaf will use at 5:05 to to register to ripple services so the the draft has moved along quite a bit I mean there were like four revisions since the last IETF and part of that is related to the review by Alva also thank you so much around for all your help there on the DCO document because basically there is this this concept that the DCO is the only in report that goes down as synchronously from the root to the devices and there are a number of flows including the backbone router which require possibly a miss a that goes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:07",
    "text": "through the repo Network and synchronously down to the 6lr so the router can actually tell the leaf that there is a problem whatever and so we found that it was actually useful and we did it to carry an ND status into the repo status and the way we initially did that was not satisfactory it was kind of a mapping table and now we replace that by your next Blissett signaling inside the ripple status so that if you carry an ND status in the repo status then there\u0027s this flag telling you right so initially the repo status the left-most built was a knee reverse is warning that if the status was above 128 then it was a neuro below it was a warning now we have the second bit which signals whether you actually have a native report errors or if you are transporting and ND status we are doing all this game because actually ng and repo repo is kind of an extension to nd for multi hub you can see it as that and that\u0027s how we\u0027re using it in in many use cases it\u0027s just ND fun and BMA networks and at the edge of the ripple Network what you see is with the real draft is pure handy and that\u0027s true also at the northern edge with if you have a backbone with the backbone router it\u0027s pure nd so at some point there is this need to map the way ripple expresses thing and the way and the Express things and you\u0027ll find the same kind of prime not prime but but things with the PIO for instance the prefix information option in rapport is the only one so you see there is a tight integration between Andy and ripple in the case of unaware leaf the most important integration is that if we before this draft you had to add to have two different messages that flow in parallel between the router down in the network and the route one of them was for handy that\u0027s the data exchange and the other one was the dowel for it and that we have two messages in a constraint network multi hub sometimes or a deep so we said a with the real draft will kind of package them into one which means that at some point you have to re explode that and so the integrating the status as we did is part of that game we use repo down the geotag to signal to a six on our the six are our fixed information it needs sends it to the to the leaf so that that\u0027s that\u0027s one big thing we did is this status game the other big thing we we did was clean up the the way we integrate with address "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:07",
    "text": "protection so in ng you\u0027ve got this concept of with five eight five four five and a PMD you\u0027ve got this concept of a rover the rover is a capability by the host to actually prove that he owns the address right now we are not using that in repo to protect repo I hope in the future we will be able to do that but for now we have not using it to protect repo but the rover was needed at the north of the geotag to actually signal to the 6lv are in case the 6l dri separates it from the root we had this long discussion do we want to force that the 6 lv r is the same box as the root or not at some time we said yes and then we decided no all right so so since it\u0027s a no and we need the rover to talk to to the 6 lb r because the 6a via one set then we had to pass the Rover in as part of the target so it\u0027s actually the signature kind of all the way to prove the ownership of the target is now piggybacked in to report so that that\u0027s another big change that we made in the road raft so as of today is just to enable us to build the correct exchange with the 6 lvl so the root can do a duck with a 6 lb are as supposed to see settle down there so we save all this thing but in the future that also gives us the opportunity to actually validate a ripple rot because now we\u0027ll be able since we have the rover in as part of the ripple signaling we\u0027ll be able to use that to prove the ownership of the address if we get to because right now anybody can inject the down one say this address this year but in the future with this Rover we can exchange a P and D and we\u0027ll see if we do that on that but we\u0027ll be able to prove the ownership so it\u0027s kind of a good idea we needed it but it\u0027s also a good idea to protect the future last but not least we so we pulled kind of DCO from the editor cube because of the changes which are related to to what I just said the status and stuff we also pulled the use of ripple info from from the editor cube and that was more like a problem of definition what is a rule in particular there was a discrepancy between how the use of ripple info define the real repair in a relief and how this draft defined rapport anomalies so we had all those discussions on the mailing list and we ended up with a common definition and I believe now that use of ripple info is clean and and self-consistent and the real draft now is aligned to that and so the way we\u0027ve done it now is that the real draft as a normative reference to the use of ripple and not the other way around so we can ship use of ripple if we captain so the way we define those thing the end of that long story to make it very short is that a leaf with first we had to define a leaf you realize that the leaf was not redefined since the days of early repo so now with the unaware thing the leaf definition had to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:07",
    "text": "be updated so relief now is a ipv6 host so it has to comply with a 200 so it\u0027s an ipv6 host which is attached to a ripple Network right it\u0027s a host supports ipv6 attached to report that we are getting routing through ripple and with that simple definition you\u0027ll find that the way the rule to the I know the way use of ripple info describe forwarding to the leaf is completely consistent because it doesn\u0027t care how the rod was set up right rule the rule draft will be one way of setting that that rod you could imagine that there are other ways or other sorts of leaf so the leaf is a plain ipv6 host the only thing you want from him is that it supports a hop by hop it out that\u0027s fully consumed and that\u0027s part of 8,200 and the other thing you want from em is that if there is this hop by hop header I can ignore it which is also compliance to 8200 so it\u0027s an ipv6 host with that we can use the use of ripple info to wait what is right for a long time so we didn\u0027t have to change that that piece okay so that\u0027s a leaf a leaf is a ipv6 host attached to ripple Network I mean that\u0027s kind of easy now ripple aware will mean that he understands RFC 6550 and ripple unaware he doesn\u0027t understand their FCC specialty simple as that so now we have a very simple concept of what a ripple unaware leaf is is that enough to play with this draft no because this draft explains how a ripple unaware leaf will use eight five four five it has to use H five four five in a certain manner so this draft adds dependency on the host describes how the host that supports at 5:05 will use H five four five so that the router in turn can provide ripple rotting for it so that so this is kind of not initially like four versions ago it was presented as the definition of a row now it\u0027s no more the definition of a row the rule is this lifts it which is not aware of ripple but then we\u0027ve got this additional support that\u0027s needed on a crew to make it a rule that does this raft basically hopes clear okay so that\u0027s where we are a senator I believe that the draft is ready I would really appreciate that people see in s mail asking reduce either we do one of two early reviews and then we do the workgroup last call and then if you would like love to see hands yes thank you fascicle yes please say who is willing to review this wrap we need two reviews thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:07",
    "text": "Robert Webb parents one more one more yes Rama Rao Jadhav Huawei so one of the question that I have was with regards to the ripple status since now we have a completely a lot of new semantics getting added to ripple status which essentially is carrying the nd status back as well so this will also mean that the DAO act status I mean it updates essentially 6550 so is it is it I mean is it is it is it okay to use the same status or shall we I mean I know that we have already discussed this before and we decided to use the same status but I just want to bring to this working group notice again that you know if if it is indeed the right way of doing it or shall we shall we have different reason or something which we should be using instead because now we are sort of confining and overlapping a lot of nd stuff with ripple in a way you know yes I mean yeah we needed that for number of tribes including backbone router right now we we have a very clean way of doing it I would believe what alternate would we have like define the second field for and the status separate from repost errors and it\u0027s one more bite right I mean do we need more so the new format leaves us 64 values for pure ripple status and 64 values for nd status that are carried along and I mean we\u0027re very very far from needing all those statuses right so I think yet another byte which is you know 8 bits in year 4 something that we are very very far from consuming for you basically what we\u0027re seeing is there is still a lot of scope for expansion regardless of a ripple we did not even define a single arak code so far right we just said if the bit on the left is on it\u0027s an error it\u0027s a rejection and we expected that new specs which come in with examples of rejection and so far the only examples of rejection we have are the one that are carried from an T actually and in case of Dow AK we have rejection from the parent upstream parent in case of storing mode of operation for the table is full and things like that we\u0027re implementers are using their own statuses yes exactly so so that\u0027s why the bit that we used to signal and D is actually the second bit when it\u0027s on so if people started using 1 0 and 1 2 3 4 5 6 whatever we don\u0027t impact those specifications or those implementations but really if if people want to start using status code in repo they should go to IANA and now it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:07",
    "text": "something we can look at actually as part of the review for the real draft since we are actually telling IANA we are doing those things please consider the way you would like to see the new repo status code assigned by iana you know there is always is say this short sentence which says oh it has to be an RFC has to be a standard document there is an RFC that I knew how to work those things where do you expect that the ripple status will be coming from would you like some some companies to propose directly status to aiya now and be granted or you know so I mean under how I see or anything interest but but that\u0027s that\u0027s a big question - IANA I mean if you if you\u0027re telling me our implementations which may be starting to use some code and they never declare them anywhere it\u0027s very risky for them because at some point the main spec may decide to use the statuses that\u0027s why there is a high honor so so what is the policy for allocating at IANA do we open it so that you know some implementation can go to IANA and say oh I want this code yes you get it or do we want to close it a little bit so it has to be a standard from any any solid body or does it need to be an expert with you or never a CEO so there are worlds and I just picked one at the moment so please please consider this carefully is part of your review the other question that I had was with regards to the capabilities now that we have the 6l are essentially signalling on behalf of the unaware leave what does it mean for example if let\u0027s say the six LR is capable of doing a 23-8 and the never leave is clearly not so so it would mean that somehow the route should know that the six LR is in charge of the unaware leaf and has to do IP in IP I would say that way because the compression is a subway I mean it\u0027s under layer three right which means that you could you could in theory decompress at every hop if you like to it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s the way you place the packet on the wire I mean the compressed form is equivalent to to the uncompressed form meaning that the 6rr if it if it doesn\u0027t know better it should just uncompress but the route doesn\u0027t have to care whether the 6r makes the compression decision it\u0027s a one hop decision okay okay so the Assumption here is that the six sellers make the decision anyways for the data plane as well on behalf of yes you get out of the the ripple domain for an external rod which is the case of rule unless you know better the 6lr should always decompress but the root doesn\u0027t have to know about that makes sense "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:12",
    "text": "I did not choose the time today thank you very much Pascal and some more questions no well I will give you an update about the use of ripple info before please sign the blue sheets they are given thank you very much all for teddy bear dad okay like Pascal said we had the terminology be fine once a ripple leaf so he\u0027s like any PVC host but we can\u0027t have when the topology is firm we can have a router as a leaf as well right Pascal when so but actually we define a ripple if I proceed host as functionality but whether when we formed at the apology a router when join a topology is going to be a leaf for for some temporal time but we are in here kind of functionality so then we have the ipv6 host aligned with the 8200 then we can have our nodes ripple awareness live and people unaware leaf so basically this is the terminology that we introduced we hope for comments if you are not already please let us know then other modifications we are the sections to advertise external targets in our case rule is an external target through non storing signaling so in our case to use cases are affected yes yes Pascal don\u0027t interrupt you good but basically we\u0027re here that this first sentence hides a change which is quite important is that all the discussion about using link-local capsulation at every hop is gone yes yes we we say in the document that we don\u0027t expect that rule to support IP IP encapsulation and as well we don\u0027t expect the rule to support eighty one three eight compression so the traffic is encapsulated in the road if it\u0027s going to be destination to read the rule when it\u0027s encapsulated into the route the destination is the 6lr father of the rule so therefore two use cases are modified in our use cases and as well we update the RFC editor comments basically are some needs so those are the four three big changes the terminology this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:15",
    "text": "section about external targets and then we update the story mode use cases where the rule is the destination so this is the document so please if you don\u0027t agree as our comment or otherwise we can proceed we will send an email to the mini list as one kind of last call so you can state if you don\u0027t agree based on comments okay thank you obvious Pascal let\u0027s come again yes I have a question to alcohol because we did this unusual thing which is to pull the document out of the RFC editor queue so now we need to put it back yeah so what are the next steps and how is this going to happen with our routing ID yes what\u0027s gonna happen is you\u0027re gonna review this from the main list you instance me I\u0027m gonna look at it most likely looking at the changes that have been done it will be fine because we\u0027re reviewed it I don\u0027t think we initially need to go back to a AG evaluation and ITA let\u0027s call and all this stuff so I\u0027ll probably just tell the RC editor that we\u0027re ready to go okay thank you very much yes thank you very much now we have Pascal with the information to keep the same estate between child and father thank you Thank You eNOS yes when we did repo we we thought as usual on the immediate prom and not necessarily on how the protocol would live on meaning you know the expectation was network will have a single and simple configuration and that\u0027s gonna be at fiver and now the kind of the protocol becomes more successful and you see all sort of variation of how it\u0027s being deployed and now you see that people are hiding new features and although Sarah sees that we are writing now I can have new features which are added to the protocol and when we build the initial protocol we didn\u0027t really care too much about how those additions would happen and how a live network could be updated and so if we take the particular case of what we call the configuration option this is an interesting thing for instance animal likes repo because it has this autonomic thing in it which is that basically the CLI the configuration of the routers is learned as part of the protocol itself so you just have to configure code and code the root and the root will distribute the configuration "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:16",
    "text": "as part of the signaling which which creates the rotting in the first place so the rod the neural network is self configured this way just well not really fully self you need to configure the root but then the whole network will will learn the configuration from the repo signaling itself as opposed to what you find usually you have to configure all the routers say you run this this protocol on that interface and other parameters and you need to be imagine is in all the routers for this to work repo is not like that repo distributes its own CLI as part of the protocol itself which is kind of cool for a network that scales to thousands of nodes and nodes are hardly reachable but now we had a number of entry meetings and thus part of discussion in particular or the configuration and stuff we found that the way ripple specified it and in particular the capability to alight the configuration when everybody understands the configuration there\u0027s no point repeating repeating repeating and so ripple says you can alight it after a while but that really implies that everybody is aware of that configuration and mostly it tells you that you don\u0027t expect the configuration to change after that well that was cool for the only repo but now we want to be able to place modifications and if we just send a Gao with a new configuration and we know some nodes will miss it so how long should we be repeating and repeating that configuration till we are sure that everybody knows every everyone every node knows that the configuration was updated it\u0027s kind of a prom so we discussed that number of times at the end trim and we ended up saying a we want a simple but very explicit signaling that tells us what is the version of those fields that we want to alight so the configuration is one the capability could be one the prefix information can be one ripple says you can alight them but it never says a if you like them how do the nodes know that it\u0027s updated so we talked and talked and we decided that we would have a draft and there was a resin who wants to what is draft ended up being me so so this draft is pretty much what we said at those interim calls and put into words it\u0027s not complicated it\u0027s all about using a sequence number for every option and being able to signal all the sequence numbers the leak of like city is that the sequence number is in the main Dao because you relied the options and so basically it\u0027s kind of one sequence number for all the option if you don\u0027t like that approach then we need to rewrite number of things in this draft but it\u0027s important it\u0027s the only kind of weird thing in this draft is the number is the number of the DAO all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:17",
    "text": "options considered you change one option you change this number meaning that you have to figure out when the number of changes which options are impacted and when you\u0027re back level from that number well you need to dig which were the options that were changed so in order to be able to do that smoothly we introduced a new option which is kind of just giving you option by option the option number and the sequence at which it was last updated so you can very rapidly see the sequence of each particular option what\u0027s the last change you know where you are so you know which one has change you get those ones so basically if you\u0027re back level with this number you send this message to to your parent and the parent of the parent will come back to you with everything that changes since the seconds that you saw giving you the abbreviated version for things which need not change so you have the real number and the unabbreviated version for those options which did change so now you re synchronized so it\u0027s really a synchronization protocol based on a single sequence number for all options since this equal number wraps that has the consequence that you need to increase the sequence number of each option before the thing wraps so it\u0027s not perfect we might like to do it slightly differently so it\u0027s just a proposal that\u0027s on the paper if we want to have one sequence number per option then we will have to signal the abbreviated version of all options in every packet which is a lot more costly so it\u0027s a choice the choice right now in the draft was to put one single sequence number for our options so you have to put even the abbreviated versions that saves you a lot of mites I mean like 4 bytes per option and if we want to use this mechanism for more and more stuff we talked about having the SLA option we talked about I think I don\u0027t know number of options from ng-include into the DAO and you want to abbreviate them all well I think the list of all the abbreviation with the sequence number will start to be big already so I kind of like the idea that we have a single sequence for everybody so we don\u0027t put all those things but to be these guys right I think that\u0027s the most discuss about item apart from that it\u0027s a very simple spectrum I mean straight to the point I hope I mean very simple problem to solve very simple solution apart from this common sequence than nothing so please review bla bla bla I mean the problem is still fresh in the mind of those party will participate it to the entrance so please you asked me to write it review it let\u0027s move forward because that\u0027s that\u0027s something we can forget soon as we\u0027ve done it so yeah I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:19",
    "text": "can go through slides now that was a big introduction I\u0027ll just wait for you to finish this ok so what didn\u0027t I say well the sequence number is called the ripple configuration state sequence now the DAO tells you this LCSs which is global to all the options so now you can fully light any notion of any of these options and just say this global sequence number for all of them we also there was a question on the mailing list and what do we do for Dao and you know mostly in storing mode I mean if nothing changes that\u0027s a lot of now information you would like to refresh just to refresh the lifetime or something like that so now there is a message which is navigated down which tells you same as last time just refresh eliezer the right time so you give the sequence number of last time and you say well just the same refresh lifetime so that makes a single message refreshing or thing equal for very lower cost so that that was actually one of the new thing compared to the interim that was meaningless discussion so we have a new object to request the the last version of the options in the desk so you say what what is your view of the last sequence so the parent can decide there is also a discussion like if two parents don\u0027t have the same sequence that means one of them is kind of obsolete you might have a parent which is not aware of the changes and the other that yes so obviously the text tells you use the parent which is aware of the most recent change right Rahul Jadhav regarding the abbreviated option so then the assumption is that the DAO traverses the same path as before yes but it might it might Traverse a different path and it might update the different path if you have ions that didn\u0027t get the same Dao as last time you cannot use that you have to give him everything but but the node itself which is which is sending the dow doesn\u0027t know oh yeah yeah i mean if something changes you have to update all right you have to update that yeah but but but the AO ability adoption is is the responsibility of the of the node to be a node sending it and that node is not aware that something in between has changed the path is going is not going to be the same so if it\u0027s a in sense an abbreviated option all the all the all the intermediates Excel ours are not available on aware of the latest latest information if we can discuss that on the mailing list but my feeling is if a parent of so the child sends the abbreviated saying oh no change the parent gets that but she has a new parent for the parent which was old yeah you can send the abbreviated for the parent which is new he sends some based on its own state but you need again to be able to reveal the state that\u0027s what your discussion yesterday right the assumption is you can always reveal the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:19",
    "text": "down from your state so if you have a new parent which is not aware of the last variation you need to tell him makes sense so a BC right a stands in abbreviate it B knows everybody say else not challenge D knew that so you can send the abbreviated II did not know it new parent you have to send a full version yet the only problem that I see is now with with with with the rich information that we are we which were propagating with the capabilities are we expecting every node to keep the capability in the routing table in context to each of the node below it because that\u0027s a big information and we may not be able to do aggregated now in that sense you know the capability is an interesting thing because if we if we say we\u0027ll define this new messaging for gathering capabilities that it\u0027s not part of the DAO so it\u0027s not really in our discussion it\u0027s only for whatever we would like to place in down messages I don\u0027t know if we\u0027ll place capabilities into our messages so I think it\u0027s gonna be all this new message you have to define right so essentially I thought either we need to see that that we cannot send capabilities endow or we cannot depend on the intermediates Excel ours to know the capability on behalf of all the sub do that so when we define the capability we have to be very careful about this so right now there only five options but that one of the big thing that this specification gives us apart from now the network can live on and you can update its configuration safely bla bla bla is that we\u0027ll be able to have more options in repo so put more of nd into repo like a cellular option and whatever else because doesn\u0027t cost as long as it can be lighted it can be safely United now so that that\u0027s kind of the big thing is this draft is simple but it really opens up for a future where a live network evolves basically the configuration challenges the prefix is updated things like that now we can safely say oh everybody will would be aware as soon as he gets a dial that the prefix has changed so even if it\u0027s a prefix that they will be able to pull it and now we will know so that makes you know our network much more manageable or can live for much longer time in a lot of what we are doing with this ripple v2 is to do go around broad networks and live networks right and keep them alive all the time we can\u0027t just stop them and start them again it\u0027s very hard when you\u0027re thousands of nodes so so this is the abbreviated option that I discussed which replaced the full option so so basically all it says is it\u0027s so it\u0027s there is only one abbreviated option right it\u0027s not one per option so the abbreviated option is the abbreviated "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:19",
    "text": "option and what it tells you is the option value that I\u0027m carrying is the option that\u0027s being abbreviated and next to it is the sequence number associated so you will you can find five times this thing with five different values of the abbreviated option meaning pio configuration blah blah blah five of them and for each one you will sindelle the last LCSs for which the assumption was modified so we we can we updated this message and this please challenge this because it\u0027s not necessarily needed think about it we use some of the flags to say I want this I want this I want this I want that but at the same time we also say here is the SES s so on the child I\u0027m sending this this and I\u0027m saying eh here is the last sequence to which I was sequence I was synchronized so the parent could decide everything that challenge and push it to the child on this I\u0027m on that the reason for the flag is like okay this information has changed but they don\u0027t care I\u0027m not using it I don\u0027t know which configuration that would be but if one of those five things is of no interest to the child then you would not set the bet is it a valuable thing to do I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s just a proposal on the table if we don\u0027t define those five flags then the parent will give you everything that changed since your sequence number there\u0027s gonna be ad works so you tell me if those flags are useful or not and personally I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t really have a case where a child would not care about an option it\u0027s consuming five minutes so I can erase that on the next version you just tell me if you have a long time then we can read this I won\u0027t read it you can read it so that\u0027s the mechanism so part of the discussion is can you detect a reboot of your parent or actually it\u0027s a route that cites the RCSS can we can we find reboot and the idea is yes because the straight part is very short this time and it should be incremented rapidly so the time during which a reboot cannot be identified is actually very short I don\u0027t remember what initial value I\u0027d put for a CSS but baby is 250 for something which means that one or two changes of the our CSS and Bank during the run part and you will detect a reboot so it\u0027s it\u0027s still imperfect because of the straight part "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:19",
    "text": "of the lollipop but it\u0027s the windows will be very very small where you don\u0027t detect a reboot Aled something you didn\u0027t say Raul yesterday is even if okay so this you are here in the straight path somewhere and you reboot so you go down the straight path so when you increment you won\u0027t detect but you will end up increment past the previous value and at this point you detect you at this point you think I\u0027m sorry so it\u0027s not like you\u0027re stuck fiver oh okay explain the data offline but basically if you go left to go back in time on the straight part but you increment rapidly there is a point where you will pass the old value and at this time people will detect your you know where you are so that they will at least learn the new configuration you\u0027re not stuck with the old configuration forever I\u0027m clear I\u0027m not clear okay we have time but but I not have a whiteboard I think regardless of this point we need to we need to talk about the lollipop counter and the impact on persistence story separately okay it\u0027s just that I don\u0027t expect that the lollipop in the CIO is an efficient tool use you said it it\u0027s not an efficient tool for detecting reboot I\u0027m trying to make a CSS a more efficient tool to detect reboot it\u0027s not perfect but it\u0027s already tuned for two reasons to be much more efficient first reason too much shorter a straight path second much faster updates you can update it and update it and update it doesn\u0027t cost much and it\u0027s not like having to reveal the diag or anything right but so my what I want to say here is the you and you mentioned it already that you know the straight part how long is that straight part going to be and you said it should be shorter a shorter as possible it has both implications it has advantages disadvantages so those have to be considered yes I think that we should have a different separate discussion for the server so right now to rethink a child will basically indicate the last sequence that he knows about so it basically is the state of his database if you are used to thinking LSD B\u0027s and some of you guys are it\u0027s pretty much the same major you have your horn on sequence for for each of the options and implicitly so each option bears the sequence of the last time it was presented info and so you know why you are elastic once I saw was 20 and I see that the GAO has 23 so that must have been three changes that I\u0027m not aware of but I don\u0027t know what those changes are so I said this to the parent with 20 and the crown should be should send me back everything I need all the way to 23 it might need more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:21",
    "text": "than one message to get there because of MTU okay so to make sure that I have all the information all the way to 23 I need to see all the options either in the abbreviated form or in the full form if the option does change the route the parent will set it me in the full form with the newer CSS I\u0027m done if the option was not changed between 20 and 23 the parent will send me the option in the abbreviated form saying 19 or whatever so so I know that even if I\u0027m at 23 deception was still in 19 and they did not need to get a new value for it so that\u0027s how it works now like I said there are those five bits which are the five option we can alight and the child can actually right now most indicate which one it wants and if it\u0027s always all once then maybe we can avoid those flags just a short question does that mean the Alexander yes yes so is it possible so does that mean that the nodes need to keep the full story the full history of the options as they change the node needs to know the latest version not the full story I mean in finishing if you get a cab and version 23 and you want the latest of each right so the parent will tell you it doesn\u0027t care what you know you it cares about the deliverer while you are and I mean okay if you know that you\u0027re on level 20 the child is level 20 option 5 is 21 say so the route the parent knows that option 5 is 21 so 21 above 20 I need so needed for whether light was changed for 21 22 23 I don\u0027t care I just have to know it was changed since 20 so I have to sell it info okay so it\u0027s not these stories the latest is okay yeah okay like I said you you can easily spread them about more than one di oh but if most of them were not changed then they are only sent in the abbreviated form so that the expectation is most of the time you don\u0027t want to spread them into multiple dials and that\u0027s pretty much thank you very much Rahul yeah so when one of the modifications that we have seen was with regards to the dis modifications in in the same draft so we have decided to combine the work for dis modifications with daylighting and we have that couple of options but how we haven\u0027t really talked about it right so yeah that\u0027s true I mean so yes let me give you some context here so there was there was a draft about this I hope we are talking about the same thing there was a draft about providing some options to Adeus to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:21",
    "text": "decide whether the answer should be multicast or unicast and things like that and so the discussion was I just like two bits couldn\u0027t we package that discussion into this draft and I\u0027m completely positive with that gate and we want feedback and yes yeah just an updated on that I think we published a new version after the I mean right now okay so it\u0027s only github but not published yet we\u0027ve started merging those two draft so in the current most updated version I\u0027m proposing that the two bits we had in AD is modification draft be the two bits that are left in Pascal\u0027s format and there are more questions that we had in it yes modification dress which which word we reset the trickle timer do we respond back with a unicast or multicast the arrows and I think all these questions are relevant to pascals occurring options as well so we\u0027re going to work on that together so that the intention is indeed to merge yes modification graphs into this one yes I have some comments about those two bids so if we have tied and then we can start the work on this piece yes we have time so if we can have agree that it\u0027s a good idea to just put them in here as opposed to having a draft for that the first thing is the original repo gives you oh if the message was unicast or multicast then you should reset this or not all you should respond unicast or multicast you don\u0027t show me yeah so the repo specification basically gave you complex behavior which we depends on of the request if the request is unicast or multicast or if the yes yes so the bits should not signal whether you use trigger or well use multicast in my mind they should signal whether you reverse the repo behavior because otherwise you need a third bit if you want to be able to signal because if you basically want to send a multicast but you want to reverse the behavior of repo to respond multicast I don\u0027t know then then the bid should signal a do the reverse of what ripple does otherwise I don\u0027t set the bit and we are back to original repo because if you have to live with legacy nodes which don\u0027t support your stuff I mean that must be a way to say eh when the bit is 0 it really means something new right right and so you\u0027d need a third bit to say eh and in this new mode where I\u0027m doing those things unless you say eh the value 0 is always what ripple did before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:23",
    "text": "so I\u0027m backward compatible in which case when you set the value 1 you reverse what ripple was doing so so depending on whether it\u0027s unicast or multicast and blah blah then the setting the would reverse that you see what I I hear what you\u0027re saying I think it\u0027s been some time since we\u0027ve updated the das modification draft but I think they current ripple behavior is too complex so that you can reverse it with just one bit because it has all these cases so what we did is we had one bit which was a no inconsistency bed which basically when it was said to zero which was a reserved value anyway in the original draft would not change current ripple behavior so we had backward compatibility and so we need to we can allocate time the other piece is is I talked to the team implementing that at Cisco and they are this interesting observation like they would like to be able to sound the disks in the form of multicast so has to cancel the emission of ADIZ by other nodes so if for instance that is this case what that we call power outage where all the nodes die together right and now they restart and guess what they all want to send it is but if they trickle out this thing one will send first if if the deceased sends unique ask to the old parrot to a previous part then the other children won\u0027t hear it so they won\u0027t be able to refrain from sending ideas and so what they really want to achieve is I want to send these to my previous parent because probably I\u0027m rebuilding the same network so I want to send this unicast but still I want the other children - I want the unicast behavior of ripple for for this like not resetting the well we have to look at that but the bottom line is I want the other guys to hear that I sent is dis dis so they don\u0027t sell the dis they just wait for the DI or multicast from the parent so basically out if I\u0027m the winner I sanded this first I won\u0027t set the bid so the response is multicast I don\u0027t necessarily want to to reset Treecko that\u0027s another discussion well maybe I do because I generate yeah I need to reset trick-or because that\u0027s how it generates a multicast so at the end of the day yes I would set the multicast bit but I want that even the dis is heard by the other guys so in the meantime between ice and the DS and the multicast response is sound the other guys don\u0027t also send this which could interfere with the DI oh right because this is a use case that\u0027s already described in ATS modification draft but so far we expected the DI oh that would be sent as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:25",
    "text": "a multicast to be heard by all the neighboring nodes and you\u0027re going a step further having the other notes over here the D is was that refrained from sending their own dears so it\u0027s even and so better we look at we looked at that and we thought that we could have a multicast address which is derived from the parent so we already in v6 of our SC 2630 I don\u0027t remember what which is how you derive a multicast address from a prefix right this exists there is there is an automatic formation of an ipv6 multicast group per prefix here everybody has the same prefix we don\u0027t care about the prefix but we would love to be able to configure a multicast address within the current prefix of this ripple domain for the surfing store the ID of the parent meaning that if you have a charge of this parent you would always listen to that multicast address and obviously the parent himself would listen to that multicast address so when you sell ad I get to that multicast address only the parent can reply with the multicast Dao but the other guys hear it so now they refrain from sending the DES so the trick we had in mind was to to create this new multicast address that would just be this parent and this children and there is a side effect to this which is quite interesting is the children will do MLD to their parent to say I am listener and now that gives you a way for a child to declare to the parent and your child because the way we did non-story the child sends a packet to the root but the parent doesn\u0027t Reno if he has children I mean it can infer it from traffic or what but there is no explicit signaling say I\u0027m your child it exists for the rule but does not exist for normal non-story and so I think this multicast group and registration to the multicast group gives the parents an idea of the children that it has because that\u0027s how the member of the multicast group fights or us so we were looking at that just chef I judge commands on this Roger I just want to comment on the whole utility of know of we having a way for telling all the other nodes to overhear the disc and not send it what what I\u0027m trying to say is the scenario where a node sense at this where mu lot of nodes are sending this is is is a one-off scenario where all the nodes gets rebooted let\u0027s say even if they send all that all of them send the discs what the problem that we have currently which is already addressed by the draft is that the DI electrical timer won\u0027t get reseted once we have that solution then the DIA is sent to everyone and everyone stops at this anyways so I mean if we don\u0027t go the other way we can avoid a lot of complication is what I\u0027m trying to say let let the node sent is anyways okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:25",
    "text": "yes it\u0027s two things you said two things the first one is I think a misunderstanding of what it means to reset the trickle timer there is a difference between resetting a trickle timer and restarting a t-coil timer and the spec fails to discuss that correctly so basically we should respect I what it means to reset the trickle timer so you don\u0027t have this problem basically if you\u0027re triggered timer is very long because the network was very stable if you reset the trickle timer I mean I equalized zero reset the period you need to restart it because otherwise it will it will timeout in a long future so you need not only to reset I to i0 which is really what reset the trickle timer means but you need also to restart the trickle timer so now you fall into this between I and I zero but if you reset it again and it\u0027s already started for this short value there is no point in restarting the timer that\u0027s a mistake if you restart the timer it will never her labs you should not restart so you should let it elapsed because it\u0027s already in the right region so we need to specify that so you don\u0027t have your prime but I don\u0027t think we need signalling we need to better specify what it needs to reset the trickle timer so just a clarification here when when we as when I said resetting I mean going back to the I mean okay so there is no use case where we restart at the current current I I value I interval so that there is there is there is no reason why a node can reset the Dro timer to the current I value it always resets it back to the I mean if some origin I mean then then well yeah but the prime is at that time you should not restart the timer if you\u0027re already in I mean you should not restart the time or if you restart you will keep restarting it for every days and then it will never elapsed so so the mistake here - it\u0027s an implementation discussion for your auto-draft the observation you should observe the way trickle is implement and the observation is if I more than and then I mean I zero then resetting means I equal I mean my zero and because now you will elapse further than that you need to restart your timer but if I is already equal to I mean then you\u0027re already elapsed saying in the expected window let it run don\u0027t restart the timer that\u0027s what it means so so this discussion is not in report it\u0027s not well enough explained I have to go to the trigger RFC because it should have been written there but if it\u0027s not then we need a section in your document explaining exactly that if I equal I mean don\u0027t restart the timer boom this problem goes away now the other prime you say it\u0027s one your case but it\u0027s a real prime we have it in the field the real parameters go to Canada some of those are from Canada and go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:27",
    "text": "down the basement of a big building and you will find all the we call matters on the wall and that can be 200 of them now outraged in this building 200 notes got out of power bank so they have to notify the utility that they lost power they have to send this parallel Taoiseach notification bank and as we have all sorts of primary being able to do that but the worst case is now when you power back up again guess what all those notes start sending this at the same time on the same frequencies blah blah blah the interfere with one another the interfere with the DDI oh it\u0027s a cacophony nobody hears anything right so what you really want to do is either the router is like keys and cdiu before or one of them send the first disk and the router sends the DAO but if all the others 200 plus notes and this at the same time it\u0027s really a cacophony so for us it\u0027s a real feel prime that we have right then it\u0027s it\u0027s not unusual it\u0027s just the way metals are deployed so we have to do something about it yeah we need to define the use cases anything we have I\u0027m sorry again but this is solved with the current text isn\u0027t it I mean if we stop resetting the trickle timer and our definition of resetting the article timer is going back to I mean if it if we stop that and we letter the node send this the DI Oracle timer won\u0027t get restated and other nodes will hear the DI oh and they will stop sending this and start yeah but what Pascal works is as soon as the giu multicast is sent with the bits thanks to the bits that you have then yes the cacophony stops if the nodes here of the DI oh but if they are sending this at that time they won\u0027t even hear that yeah you and they will keep sending this so so you can\u0027t receive and transmit at the same time right I mean there is a weird moment where everybody wants to talk and nobody listens just like in this room no no no joking so that needs to be an trickle is good at that that needs to be a winner East out of the parent sending the DI oh that\u0027s perfect or a child sending ideas but then everybody should silence be silent chill because the DAO is not instantaneous the whole principle of Treecko is the response is always delight by something akin to admin right in the order of I mean and so during that time today with the current implementations in the field everybody shouts nobody he listens right and the Jo is lost and even the DS sometimes that is so much cacophony that even the parent doesn\u0027t hear the dis because it\u0027s interfered by the others right but Pascal can I just make a comment on that we must be careful though not to be trying to solve a layer two issues so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:29",
    "text": "it\u0027s good to have to understand the use case but what you\u0027re describing is just a medium access problem so we can help it but we shouldn\u0027t be solving it at their free I mean if the solution is as simple as defining a multi afterwards pop art that\u0027s not so hard right it\u0027s and that is really a sweet solution for a problem so yeah we I\u0027m saying we can have an option that helps but we should pretend it and pretend we resolve in by ourselves same thing in in our draft we had this spreading option as well for the responses when you you know if it\u0027s your posit situation in unit that turns the network and Kroy has no idea what brought us around so it\u0027s sending a case to our brothers it\u0027s a different situation because in that case it was send it to all parents he will all routers he will not send it to the multicast address of his previous part right it\u0027s so different parties I\u0027m saying in this case you have all the routers that respond at the same time so we proposed an option but at the same time this trickle no because in current version of ripple this is an inconsistency so you will end up trickle to i0 but until you trickle you get a unique STR your response which is immediate which is not governed by a trickle okay let\u0027s discuss about the unicast and and then we added that option to spread responses so to avoid this the yellow storm so maybe we need the the same similar mechanism the other way round for York useless yes love it thank you very much guys one piece in general do we need a document that explain what\u0027s happened with the note when we start I don\u0027t think because there\u0027s some lot of status as of now the discussions that we had yesterday it\u0027s it\u0027s unwrapped idea so I\u0027m planning to update the same document observations draft with most of the text at some point of time maybe the working group might feel that this can be published as a separate document or maybe working group might decide that at later point of time if it has enough substantial material which needs a publication in that case we can take a call something like that does it make sense yeah basically we see the text we check the text in the observation stock first or you know or if you decide that right now it\u0027s a it clearly requires a different document then then it\u0027s a teaser call yeah but as for example each document has like a security consideration we may you can include like a section what happens when a note restart so we can feel that because they\u0027re always "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:30",
    "text": "question so we can kind of have a mandatory section well mandatory like like it what happened and that would be nice in each document have that section I don\u0027t know what do you think I believe that house document on the observations is so useful and at least verbally we should capture what was said to the in rolls document so at least we have a status of that we know this problem we discussed that and and there is where we are at least I agree with what you said I mean having a section on exactly but already writing down a for instance to trickle time we are resetting trickle does it means we starting the time on this le oh that\u0027s important must be written somewhere and and so all this discussion about the use of the bits etc so we need to complete on the mailing list in the agreement on the bits that are inherited from the other thing which which also relates to the fact I\u0027m using five of those bits and it\u0027s not awfully necessary so if we start using those bits remember I\u0027m using five bits and so that means you know kind of a waste so it seems to me that if we restart finding a real more important use of the bits maybe we should remove those ones because it seems a lot more important to be able to do what Dominic wants to do with those bits then to signal I want this I want that just one more on each other well just one more thing that I would like to mention in this context is that we should expect future specification to generate new options which should be readily or it should be possible to elect them as well and we give some sort of considerations in this document saying that if you have a new option and it rarely changes then you should follow so and so things I mean you have to define a sequence number for every option do you really need it so some sort of considerations for new a few future options because we see already that there are going to be future options okay okay yes we\u0027ll track try to did for rapidly before that but just thank you very much yes please at the what the saying they observe ancient thank you if you could write that in a few words in a mail so I could respond and say yes proposal blah blah blah so um for adoption I hope there\u0027s a if you are if you agree we can publish your marriage documents and then we go for adoptions is that okay for you yep okay comments questions okay thank you around thank you very much pasta so don\u0027t be Nick the bullies in your kelp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:30",
    "text": "Dominique at half as a contributor yeah yes and so please give a thought to what I said about reversing beards and maybe we talked out of line and then we\u0027ll publish that and we\u0027ll tell you we\u0027re ready yes yeah I think the way we wrote it in the identification is already what you want but I\u0027ll make sure we discuss it thank you throne oh we have for each other I\u0027m going to talk about the updates to the NP Dow it went into the IG last call we received all the IG reviews and then we had an update when one important update rather we are now carrying and ripple status as part of DC oh well this is very generate and it is important for DC oh the node generating the DCO to sort of give a reason why is it generating that ECU in the first place so it is regardless of the unaware leaves proposition it is important for DC or to give this reason we should have identified that in the first place but now we have it but so this slide explains you the impact of unaware leaves on on on this particular draft and we have seen a Pascal has already explained it but what we have here is we have the RPL status format changed we have another bit which is which is mentioning whether it is rather nd status so now this text I\u0027ve picked up from unaware leaves but it is quite important to be noted in this context now the the reason the one the number 130 that has been mentioned currently in the in the NP dowdy CEO draft it may not be correct so that has to be changed so there is one update that will be required even after this just a change of number there is no change in the Ayane consideration but yeah it there is still a change required so sorry I missed that one we just discovered it by reviewing with how like yesterday or something but we are the more interesting discussion if I may say is that since now we are carrying the stairs and the status can be one to 127 like the EBIT is not set then we could really make the future of this yo lot brighter if we said that instead of being always a killer for the path it can also be carrying an indication and not kill the path right now if you get to this yo regardless of the value of the DCO you kill the path regardless of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:30",
    "text": "the status of the of the ripple Stellar\u0027s but the repo status as the EBIT which tells you a it\u0027s a rejection or not so one sentence somewhere in that spec that says that if the eve is what what we described so far is is valid if the e bit is indicating rejection but otherwise you just forward the DCO and and you do what you know about the status that\u0027s in there she understand it then we could use it this message for new cases and actually we had one yesterday so it looks like I would like to see this additional change to say a don\u0027t discard the path if the idiot is reset and if you understand the value and the value tells you to do something to it otherwise just pass the DCU on down the path and this way we can signal nan your information down the path for instance I have too many children I need to rebalance the tree which is the use case we had yesterday so it\u0027s an encouragement of people down the path to repair in somewhere so we rebalance the graph it\u0027s just one case but we thought eh that\u0027s the only message we have that flies i synchronously down from the root and if it\u0027s if I mean just using it for one purpose is kind of a waste right having the capability to say a it can be more than a rejection it can also also be a status a warning status like I\u0027m overloaded but you can keep me but if you can switch to somebody else that would be better it\u0027s not an out what an outright rejection it makes this message lot more useful and powerful reaction New York hey al Loredana that\u0027s a big change very big change for several reasons not only are you using the mister something else which is great I love we use if that\u0027s what works do that\u0027s perfect the drafts a couple things besides that it says something about not expecting the nodes to do anything based on status now you\u0027re changing that right and and the other part that really concerns me is the fact that you say that the status I forgot the exact words must not change or something on the path that\u0027s great but there\u0027s not a real way to enforce that right meaning when I get the message from chorus above me I don\u0027t know if that was what he got from the guy from his parent so you know that\u0027s i "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:33",
    "text": "it\u0027s just a it\u0027s just a way that was written that maybe was written in draft that because we can\u0027t enforce that then we can\u0027t really say you must not change it right so so we need to to be clear about those those cases and be clear about the fact that I can now tell someone hey you need to repair it for no apparent racist right just because I want to of course this may be better than telling them the path is not available at all correct so maybe that\u0027s a little better but you know they\u0027re still you know things Here I am obviously not opposed to you doing this stuff we might need a lot more review yes what I mean is we might have to go back to the AAC or yeah please my bottom line is if we keep the text as it is the nodes will effectively not because of this mast will not look at the stairs which means that this creates a backward compatibility issue whereby even if we want to extend it in the future if we have a legacy node it will kill the route which is not what who I mean that\u0027s sad if the life I mean having this bit which sighs if you don\u0027t understand it but at least you know destroy not destroy something that\u0027s proven very useful in ng and many other use use cases right what you do when you don\u0027t understand it so although all the idea is okay we did not expect the nodes to understand it and they would destroy the route now at least we say eh if you underst you don\u0027t understand it but it\u0027s a warning you don\u0027t destroy the route you pass it down that was so useful in other protocols I mean I can wait for the RFC number if we get this additional feature I\u0027m ready to see who goes to reduce now and like I said we\u0027re in misrata hall anyway so if what we do here is faster than what we do for the rules that does not delay there I see anyway I just want to say the statement at the the enforcement policy that Anwar you mentioned you know there is no way for the nodes intermediate nodes I mean intermediate nodes can essentially change it and there\u0027s no way to enforce it but the same is true even for the existing down messages so I mean if we completely depend upon Delta security or the security or mechanisms in our field for that so that\u0027s so there will be an update here yeah thank you very much thank you so well you will add a drop and then we will request for abuse we will update data I mean you will update drop and then will will recuse against their request for abuse so now Pascal please and this stuff is going to be for working we have 40 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:36",
    "text": "minutes 40 okay so you have a for you okay so basically the this does this need to update a brownfield Network that we did not foresee earlier but we kind of realized that the notion of Flag Day was not very feasible in some applications of repo like a dag of thousands of nodes and so if you want to introduce a function like the new hub by hub API value or the fact that you want to use the compression that we never with eight one three eight then the way you would do it is progressively install the new software in the devices which are capable of doing those new things but the whole network needs to use the same functions so as long as you get but level devices you cannot reuse it so if the new software said just use it and you all software who is not using it then your network would be inconsistent so there is the need to replace the Flag Day by a process whereby your greater nodes at the speed you can and when they are all graded then you fire a bit somewhere and everybody works with the new operation so that\u0027s the way that we solve the problem in the use of repo information for the new value of the hub by option of API and we have the exact same problem - for another repo specific operation which is the use of compression so it\u0027s not the first discussion the meaningless like oh it\u0027s not the shape of the geotag well the configuration is not just the shape of the geotag it\u0027s everything that people does and the compression is one of those things that ripple does that needs to be homogeneous within a particular do DAC if you have a multi-tier that configuration may be one deal diagnoses it and the other does not but at least under a certain route as part of your subnet but not necessarily the host at that you need to know if it\u0027s on or it\u0027s off and you need to be able to deploy the nodes with a new software and this it\u0027s off so they don\u0027t choose it and when all the software is installed everywhere then you can decide to turn it up so this is a configuration thing it\u0027s not the same thing as the capability the capability is whether the new software can do it or not it\u0027s useful to have a capability to say that the new software can do it because now when you know that every nodes can do it you can automatically automatically turn it down but you might also know that every node can do it because you know you have done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:37",
    "text": "upgrading your network or because you have another management protocol and we have one by the way which tells you that so there is not a strong tie between the configuration that says Taneytown and the capability that says it\u0027s a viable kappa beat is a very useful thing we can live without it because we have other means to manage the devices which are not based on a capability right so does this need to wait for the capability draft now does this need a normative reference to a variability draft no is it something that\u0027s useful in standalone yes just like it\u0027s actually a Mis use a free pollen fo as the bed we did not miss that time but when we rotate one three eight we are so concerned by the compression that we forgot the bran field and we forgot to put this bit so it\u0027s just catching up with a mess that\u0027s no more than that draft has been very very very stable there were discussions about is there are other ways to use to do that rather than the compression the six CIO is nd it talks about a subnet not a geotag we should not make ng aware of our setback configuration or ripple specific stuff so it doesn\u0027t look like a good idea in this case and now it if we did in 6ew it would be harder to tie with the capability I would like to do the same thing for using the hub by hop and for using the compression because it\u0027s a very similar problem so it\u0027s cool to be consistent the way we approach those Prime\u0027s somebody said we could use a new protocol so yes let\u0027s define a new protocol that\u0027s priced through the network and also new messages just to carry one bit why not well I\u0027m not too good for that so I think we are we\u0027re kind of okay and ready for let\u0027s call for an option yeah thanks for adoption I\u0027m sorry well both it\u0027s just one bit right at the end of the day it\u0027s just just one damn bit they\u0027re all just bits just one at a time Michael here so Pascal explained to me the disconnect between I ween capabilities and this document I I was not previously happy with turn on not using capabilities to enable itself but now I understand what he\u0027s proposing that that later on we may have a capability that asks where we can discover if the network is 81 thirty-eight ready in Pascal\u0027s case and I believe this is a metering networks when the installers been to every single home they know that they\u0027ve upgraded the meters or that whatever because in most "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:38",
    "text": "cases those devices are installed by putting a fiber-optic cable and into the front the meter and updating the firmware so they\u0027ve done them all I guess it takes two years or something to visit every home and then they turn on 81 38 right and if if they lose some devices I guess they they screwed up and missed some and that\u0027s all so I support doing this I understand the the somewhat urgency of it and okay right it would be nice again it would be nice if we had the capabilities document sufficiently advanced that you could just use this but to announce to turn it on as well as discover but I agree that that\u0027s gonna take us a little while to do this and I think you need this so they\u0027re going thank you Michael Roger though I completely agree with that we need this kind of stuff but the one important one thing that I want to mention is that basically what it avoids is what we are we are sort of avoiding through this is a flag day operations where we now know the route can signal all the nodes that something is now can be turned on by so what I\u0027m trying to say is in eventually we will have other other mechanisms which have to be turned on by the route after then after the discovery of that mechanism so is it possible for us to generalize this so that it can be used for other purposes as as well and not only for 80 138 so this is a generic problem statement where the route needs to tell all the nodes in the network and the reason why I\u0027m concerned is because now we are making use of the DAO base objects I mean the configuration options flag which are limited and if we use for specific purpose as eight one three eight and I see a reason why we are doing it but eventually we will need this for other things as well so what what so is it possible for us to do it generally such that in the future if the route has to say to the all to all other nodes that you can yes start using this not only for eight one three eight I mean that\u0027s a great question and I think it\u0027s realized a lot with them up we had a similar Prime with them up and I expect that when we need more room and we have to configure ripple configuration option right we\u0027ll we\u0027ll extend the ripple configuration option for more bit space or whatever so so for now we don\u0027t need it let\u0027s use the space we have the very cool thing is because of the other draught eliding we can make the configuration a bigger because now we can elide it easily and we can update it easily so for for the future I guess we\u0027ll take the bits from the ripple configuration option and not from the base well from external of new options to the ripple configuration option so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:38",
    "text": "basically so for now we can live with what we have so use it but be prepared yes to have tlvs in the configuration option in the future just like you\u0027re doing for the map and I think right yes you can start thinking about this mechanism and if you want to piggyback that with the map ax why not because it\u0027s infrastructure I\u0027m not really using my packs right we are just saying a the value seven will mean ripple v2 but we are not defining new Maps at the moment same thing we could already start for providing the mechanism to put new options in the configuration option and some things missing and so we have the infrared II so around for it sorry so I just want to say that you know in this case equating it to more pegs might not be because because if we start using mopix for such purposes it will it will result in all the Combinator I\u0027m not saying use map X I\u0027m saying o map X is I infrastructural document which does not recreate a new map it just nabel\u0027s us to extend them up space in the same fashion maybe if we need to do something to be able to extend the configuration space with new options and you want to give formats or something like that to ignore them or understand them or things like that then you you could package that with more tags if you don\u0027t define anything new but just a a a generic transport or signal for those just like map exaggerate transport from new maps do the maps don\u0027t exist right it\u0027s no new body so just wondering if you could answer your own question India split more pegs but on the more backside not us you know just as infrastructure that could be needed right so so my concern was that we we will use this bit in the i/o configuration option and it will this bit will linger on for a long long time for since even once the eight one three eight option is readily used in the network so this bit will become like yeah but by then we will have the configuration option there with extensions and whatever yeah I see the prime right but it\u0027s true for the hop-by-hop also I mean you can view that in two years from now everybody we use will be using X 23 and then signaling it will become useless uh-huh okay so same prime I don\u0027t have an answer well Michael here sorry I had to go to the bathroom but I just heard the last couple of the conversation Pascale what if we made this document experimental yeah because then the allocation of the bit would be essentially revocable so how do you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:38",
    "text": "differentiate that from the user 3.0 like it should it should that also be experimental in user 3.0 should be the allocation of the bit be experimental yeah it would be it would be easier if if we it would be easier if we had split that off into its separate document and then we could mark it experimental as well and so instead we would have to write another document in the future if we did a 65 50 bits when we would we would then mark that bit as as deprecated right so we could also take reclaim this bit in a 65 50 bits as that way that would be another option I don\u0027t know I mean notice that don\u0027t sorry the nodes that don\u0027t have not 81 38 right with if they see an announcement and they\u0027re the bits not on they will fail because they don\u0027t have the like well it can\u0027t mean you can always run uncompressed right so we mandate that but right the alternate is to say a mob 7 meaning ripple V 2 8 1 3 8 is mandatory in ripple v2 so blah you could also do that but III like we discussed that yesterday and I like that that a little bit as the as the right way but you may need this bit beforehand that\u0027s all I\u0027m saying is that that going for it is experimental might might and that\u0027s what we did with ecn right yeah but it\u0027s I mean the metals will be deployed and so if you tell them that the bit is duplicated did not really care they are deployed and they operate unless you reflash the smart meter operator will not replace the software just because the bit was deprecated of course not but but they also won\u0027t if they don\u0027t replace the software period going forward so you can\u0027t duplicate that bit that\u0027s what I mean right you know you will still need to deploy new devices which may need the new variation of the bit now and so that creates an immense problem my dental well well so what I\u0027m trying to say is that that so so ok so next year you deploy new software and it takes a year for an operator to actually deploy it to all the household so that\u0027s that\u0027s I would say realistic you know we\u0027re talking about probably a truck wool guy rolling yeah walking down the street updating cousin a lot of these meters don\u0027t have don\u0027t necessarily have out there a field upgradeable but not in band field upgradeable over-the-air okay at least the one in my house is not is not it\u0027s not upgradable there there they they have in times come removed the meter put it in a truck well they\u0027re probably through a new one on it but put it in a truck upgraded it put it back and I\u0027ve had no power for 10 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:38",
    "text": "minutes right that\u0027s how it\u0027s worked but I\u0027m told that they don\u0027t have to remove the meter they just are become overly cautious about electrocuting themselves but the point is that it takes some time as you saying it takes some time before the network is upgraded and then they turn the bid on okay and then they run for a number of years during which there\u0027s probably other other software patches that come out and they they apply them at some point you you make the decision you know what we are no longer ship support for having the bit off right if the bit is turned off the meter won\u0027t run right I mean it\u0027s full I mean in this case it\u0027s a little bit weird because you can always not you can always not compress as well like eighty one thirty one lets you compress better right and if you just don\u0027t compress so well well that\u0027s just the networks just copes with it so in this case it\u0027s a little bit weird because you can you can always run you can always if you have 81 thirty-eight you can always not use it as I believe it\u0027s still the case right III don\u0027t see that I mean the mechanism looks good the way I describe it but in in in the real world I don\u0027t see that the world will care if this bit was experimental and some Islanders may so you know it\u0027s most like at some point you plan to reuse it and and that\u0027s the day the nightmare starts because we\u0027ll interoperate with an old implementation that sees that this bit means that and that guy was not reflashed and and now you say oh I have to refresh my own network and maybe there is this thing in particular deployment which is not so much in use that still speaks your language of that bit I\u0027m really really concerned that when we reused a bit for something else it will create a nightmare but let me go back if we could find a way to reuse the it would you be happy or who thought maybe maybe that\u0027s the better question to ask you right maybe maybe maybe marking experimental is not the right way to figure this out but but that\u0027s what I just heard as I came back in the room is it we would like to be able to reclaim the bit sometime in the future right not next year not in five years but sometime during the period of the lifespan of some of these networks we may want to reclaim that debt yeah so so we need to define the method for that like say there is another or something next to it which tells you the version of those bits version zero its use of ripple info plus RFC eight one three eight and when we go version one this bit will meet something completely different but that is the current software can already know if those bits "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:38",
    "text": "mean that or not and if it means it\u0027s future thing then it was the old version is too now so I don\u0027t know what those bits are but they don\u0027t mean what I think they mean well I\u0027m happy if we decided that was mop equals 7 not equal 7 we live with this current value oh yeah I mean if you say more people equals 7 implies the 2 bits are set that\u0027s what you mean I see yeah that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying right moving forward you could already pre-k 3po yes well that\u0027s right so so the point is is you know a mop equal 7 you know it is is already going to be a sufficient interesting change that yes we could deprecated the other two other bits if we needed to but you also mean that the support of eight one three eight is mandatory yeah I thought that it should be well I sent an email this morning so you didn\u0027t have time to read it but the bottom line was okay now we are all reported to note what is mandatory was a personal but it might not it might it might not be mop equal seven makes it it might be mop equals 7 plus mop X values we\u0027ll say what what what\u0027s going on right but that I\u0027m saying is that something in that space sounds like the way that we\u0027re getting to ripple v2 okay and and we get there quickly or slowly I don\u0027t know but but that sounds like the process by which we should essentially obsolete some of the compatibility options it\u0027s at that stage that we should say that whether and I\u0027m not picky whether at which particular thing is the clue the the the statement that we\u0027re at quote v2 right and that doesn\u0027t mean that we\u0027ve spawned the document even right because that may be a lot more effort we may want to wait for a little while and then we spend the document remove stuff nobody used right but they\u0027re so oh they\u0027re oh you probably already spoke while I was no it\u0027s a very important discussion I was wondering why we we needed that much time for this document but now I realize it\u0027s just four uh-huh but because it\u0027s not really this document right it\u0027s really uh those bits will be there forever and it\u0027s a way we don\u0027t have it we don\u0027t have very many of them and so that\u0027s why we\u0027re anxious about it yeah right that\u0027s the issue okay yeah so some of these draft it\u0027s really land so using do you agree role that you don\u0027t have a fundamental problem with him using the bit it\u0027s how we get little bit back right so yeah and and so maybe we just don\u0027t have to solve that problem with this document because it\u0027s already there with you I said that\u0027s what I\u0027m just saying really just hold my nose and go okay it\u0027s not the best solution that I would like because document applies to a network with map non-story so we could say as long as the map is is the current known story at least a bit mean yes yes and then we can always delay to the future when the map is seven to say what happens so so so maybe maybe the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:40",
    "text": "document should say this document applies to mop non storing I don\u0027t know if you want to apply to storing as well I\u0027m open to that statement okay but you may not but but then you may want to say that this bit is undefined for other mop values until such time as someone else decides whether it\u0027s defined or not right do you want to go and make the same addition for user freepo because stealing though Hales Michael again so we would say it applies to the mop value for storing with multicast and the mop value for storing without multicast or whatever it was in the mop Valley for not storing a camera with a list of the three well these are se to say that supplies to the other no no I\u0027m saying in use of ripple we would we would qualify we also qualify our use of the bit to say it\u0027s the three values of mop that I think are the relevant three that matter and I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any other ones there\u0027s one that no one uses or something right right I can\u0027t remember what the list is but so the plan I can summarize the plan is I change this draft well we can still call for adoption right because the draft to say a by the way this bit is only defined if the map is below seven first time then you go news a free poll you do the same thing this okay socialize I\u0027ll leave the mop is below seven and we still have to look at my email where I say what does seven mean basically what is optional what\u0027s is mandatory or something okay so we have a whole is it satisfactory oh yeah I don\u0027t know I just have a question because I\u0027m maybe a little bit lost or any other bits dependent on the mop just this one I think it\u0027s the first time because in reality what it sounds that you\u0027re doing is that you were creating sort of a different registry I mean right because the way I ain\u0027t had those things right there\u0027s the registry and it says this bit is whatever right today it doesn\u0027t differentiate between the moms right so basically by saying this only applies to some mops and not others you\u0027re sort of adding columns to the registry we are to say this bit applies you know one four six or whatever this other bit applies to everything or you know whatever it is because later right if you do mop eight or something and now you say that as bid means something else right and you ask a let\u0027s racer it well how do you raise for that because it\u0027s already there right unless you modify the registry somehow ensure I mean we can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:40",
    "text": "there are main registries there that have your columns and you know whatever right it\u0027s a race don\u0027t already in the past yes so we have to I think the registry would have to be modified for that right it\u0027s not as easy is just saying in one sentence it only applies right here there is already a you know section but just say stab it doesn\u0027t say the column right right exactly so that\u0027s what I mean there\u0027s no column today right so someone somewhere and one of these documents has to update the registry so that now and in the future for every other bit you have to indicate what mops the bit is valid for so I mean it gives you a lot more flexibility and it actually gives you a lot more bits right because now you can have all the bits supply to one specific one or not apply to something I completely agree for one and I was thinking as we went on which document should be doing this I was thinking after the case have in mind is 6lowpan in sixth up and initially we started with with the bits in just one table and then we did arrive c85 28 and 28 0 25 its 0 25 basically is mostly about saying that the sixth applied compression now is in tables so you have like 16 tables so we are did this table column which is exactly the same as the mop column now well initially 6 up and even without it and then there was 8 525 8 0 25 which was mostly about creating that column in our case the inference which an infrastructure thing it does not really a new function it please new infra and we have a mock draft which is coming map X which will bring new in fraud but not not new feature and this new infra will be when the new cap maps will be introduced they won\u0027t because the problem is if we did it in use of repo or if we did it in this one then it would not be balanced kind of and right now we don\u0027t need them because we say it applies to all the that exists so so we could say we can leave for those two drafts the way use of ripple is already written and the way this one\u0027s already written but we need to do what you say very soon in an infra draft which is mopix maybe that\u0027s just my suggestion right so yes so saying that it applies to all the mops that exist really says that it applies to all the moms even the future ones that are not defined right because again right now there\u0027s nothing that says that whatever bit has already been defined would not apply to some future thing because think of the registry is flat right it\u0027s just one column so do we do we need to show you just a lot of things that if somehow you really want to say that whatever bit has already been defined only applies to the mops that have been defined now yes we want it when that infrastructure is defined you need to go update that other old RFC\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:42",
    "text": "so that they don\u0027t apply to future mops unless the future mob must use that bit for whatever which is what so there\u0027s some more you know text that has to go in there somehow so we know in our two drafts will say applies to mob bla bla bla and for the rest we can say that\u0027s what we\u0027ll say right but we don\u0027t we won\u0027t be doing inr games we\u0027ll just declare the base to the IANA as if there is a single set of bits and in map X we say oh by the way for future like you say it\u0027s different and we create a new registry for the mob x equals seven right as a registry with a new column it will add the column yeah sure we call when we add the column I was just looking as I actually when you said this I was like really I thought I didn\u0027t think we actually had a registry for that those bits I thought we actually were just updating 6550 as a as an update that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s what I thought we were doing and I just looked and there is a registry and and we are we are updating it and use of our pls bits already in the list even because it was a allocated it\u0027s Vienna when we went through them the first pet time so but I think what you\u0027re saying Ella vero and and Pascal is that we will just go proceed and turn on will allocate the bit as the use of our PL did and that when we define mop equals seven in the mop X Draft we will then add the column to that registry and create another another thing because that puts it in the right draft that creates the right place and and that that male make it clear I hope and not we could walk down the hall and talk to Michelle and find out what she thinks so we need one more quick edit to use a free poll that the whole because we are before we add it back to you it\u0027s a small champion use a free mobile site only applies to mobs bla right yeah Raja though can we go for another buy one more question in the same context not in the same context with regards to the use of a 23-8 there is and now we have a dependency of this on P Dow because we might have non storing mode segments in projected Dow and we would like the node nodes to know that a 23-8 is on so you mean that when you send a pit out there should be a bit in the P Dow saying use a 23-8 for this project or rather not Abed it is possible but so basically the problem is this in using P Dow we can have a segments which are non storing mode which operates in non storing more and they can essentially use a 23-8 even in storing I mean even in even if the whole network is not fully at once rate capable it might be that a given path "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:43",
    "text": "yes and so you could you if you are the capabilities to know that this path is 8 1 3 8 compliant you could signal in the PIO use compression for that path right so it\u0027s not just on store and I mean so why so does that make any so now we have to refer I mean we would it mean that this document the we\u0027ll be a normative reference in PDF for this document not necessarily so dot no I don\u0027t think so first thing is by default today P doubt that\u0027s what the duck does so if if down on I stand down that\u0027s true for died Opie doubt everybody so the dog is is doing it or the dag is not doing it and P da is just another lie inside this big tag so so for now because we didn\u0027t specify anything that\u0027s probably the way it works it needs words in P Dow to just say that but it would be the implicit way now if we want to do something more fancy inside the P Dow subtag not just narrating from the underlay but having its own capabilities it\u0027s not because of this signaling anymore it\u0027s because of a bit in the P Dow telling you oh by the way you can compress even if the rest of the tag does not do we want that well you tell me on the mailing list I hope you know my thing is I\u0027m that\u0027s why what you said only I resonated to me is like I really hope that in the near future everybody does it and does not ask the question which is what you said the bit becomes useless it\u0027s kind of the same thing for using 23 right I mean the big becomes useless okay if the bit is useless then don\u0027t spend too much effort doing the PIO different from the rest just think that everybody will use 80 once right very soon and we all set but yes having a sentence in P Dow say the user of the compression is narrated from the dock could be a sentence to add so that would make P Dow refer to that normatively if we say that so this should fly yeah Thank You Pascal so we are going to do the adoption call for disrupt so please ham if you re with this document the AC agrees it\u0027s the AC I\u0027m smaller than they do right so so please hug please huh no so yeah okay now we raise hand because we didn\u0027t listen so much what race honey few already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:44",
    "text": "yeah result if you agree to adopt the document yes I guess three four five six seven eight so raise hand if you don\u0027t agree with this document to be adopted yeah if you oppose if you have passed a thank you so no yeah and nobody in the Matteo Needham so yes we can\u0027t film in the minimis so far we agreed to adopt this document so thank you very much for the useful conversation so we have some additional comments you know additional comments or questions if the people has no so so far we have to update this document and the use of ripple info as well okay so it\u0027s time for today thank you very much we finish you "
  }
]