[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "Good. Okay. Welcome. Welcome, everyone. Let's get going. Welcome everyone to the 1st session of a If somebody can close the door at the end there in the back, and fuel, and fuel, Okay. We have 3 sessions. This is first session. We have 1 hour today. So let's get going. Press, thanks to Philip and the honest for taking notes. And let's get going. This is the not well. Please, make sure you are familiar with the with the not well. It governs everything that we do at the IETF here. So. Hopefully, you're already familiar with this. If not, make sure we you get familiar with this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Meeting tips, please use, the application to sign into meet echo. That's a way we know that you are in the room, we, you know, have, blue sheets anymore. And, it allows you to kind of get into the queue and and ask questions or provide feedbacks. Okay. So Wanna start on, and memory for a friend, a friend, that we recently lost Victoria, As many of you know, He he was really, I I didn't need a guru I did the icon. And hair product experts to I I didn't benefit from that, but was, an amazing author offered a number of books and 2 RFCs, one of them just recently, with the All aspects group, was an amazing educator He know how to simplify things and and explain things to to people and he had tons of videos that if you can 0 has tons of identity videos that you can go on and listen to Victoria explaining things in in gory details is just amazing. And he has also, a podcast that he talks about identity It was a mentor was a colleague He was a friend to me and many of us here we miss him and the rest in peace, my friend, and Yep. Let let's take a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "maybe a moment to remember him. Just few few seconds. Of silence, Okay. Thank you. I'll open it for anybody that wants to say any words Yeah. So feel free I didn't know Vittorio for very long or very well. But He was such an inspiration for me. Coming into this space, learning about it, and not just in terms of how he did the work, but how he lived And I think for me, Victoria was an inspiration in life. And, and in the work that we did. So I just want to acknowledge that. Thanks, Peter. K. K. I've, known Victoria for a couple of years, but it was about 18 ago at Identiverse. I sat in the bar with Vittorio and ton, much I hated my job. And I wanna do something different. I wanted to get involved in standards. And he was the one who pushed me to write a job description, say what I wanna do and chase it and That's why I'm sitting here today and sitting in all of these meetings. So thank atorian Thanks, team. Okay. Go ahead, Mike. This is what I'd like to hear."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "Would you join everybody and when com. My name is Don't have a thought ship. Yeah. K. You. And just a quick reminder, Yeah. Noncomm is still looking for feedback. You know, for me, all the noncomm, It's the committee that selects our leadership here at the IETF. It's really important. That we get the the feedback of the community to be able to select the the leaders the next leaders of the IETF. So please take the time to provide feedback on people that you interact with. Just comment about an author group of office hours. We have a biweekly open office hour every other Wednesday So at one time, we had some Webex issues and We use different conferences to to do that. I'm sorry. So George. Sorry. George, are you cut, Sorry. Okay. Sorry. So and and so what what we're gonna do, like, we probably already canceled all of them if if you see still That's that And on your calendar, please delete it. We'll send a new one just to make sure everyone got the latest because there were lots of confusion there. K. Okay. Quick update on what we accomplished recently. The the IVF published the 2 really great important documents,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "The first one is the the default documents which was which was amazing work. From the authors, Daniel Brian John toastin Mike, and David And the Yeah. Go ahead. Thank you. And the other one is Victoria's last, and and with with Brian. About step up authentication again. And and thank you for the whole work group because that these couldn't have happened without all the help and review and comment and and and support of the whole work group. Brian, did you wanna say something? Okay. Security BCP, we finally pushed this to to the ISG. And So Hopefully, that will progress soon, and we'll unlock the one after it, which is the a job response for auth token. Respection was husband, waiting for a long time. And more recently we adopted 3 new working group documents, SD Jot based verifier credentials, at the station based classification and wealth status list. These are No, documents that we adopted since the last the last meeting So today's agenda, we have, one allocates the first 30 minutes to talk about the charter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "in the context of, what we saw with the with those 3 three documents that we have not adopted here. And after that, Christina and and, Daniel will be talking about is Dejot. K? K? So, I'd like to ask, your own, if you can give us a quick update on the Wednesday, Oh, good. Yes, sir. Got it. Thank you, Rifat. Joe Saloway and myself showed the the Wimsie Buff that a standard before this session, And I think many of the people in this room weather, but for those who weren't And we had a well attended, both about workload identity. We there were quite a few technical presentation and some presentations that are higher level about what we plan to do. We got very, strong feedback that we need to tighten the charter to define, much more specific charter, including the specific deliverables, of what we would like to accomplish first. We will obviously take this, feedback back to the list, and we will probably have a robust discussion about what we want to do in, in workflow, the identity. Please, if you're anywhere to all into workload identity, which is a very a very interesting topic. Please join the mailing list and contribute to shaping charter of the of the working group to be Thank you. Awesome. Thanks, Yaron. And honest you're gonna give her something? Yeah. This morning, Pam and I had the at the path for the spice,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "sort of proposal, and Roman helped out to to run the show because Pampers, remote We also had a very good, attendance. I was actually very positively surprised. More than 100 fifty people online, even in the packed room, So We have good discussions, also good support lots of interest in in doing the work, that the idea is the right place, you have to to to a little bit of fine tuning or discussions on the charter which will follow afterwards. I will have a a chat with Roman during this week to to see what immediate next steps are and, obviously, keep the sort of the group and the audience informed about how we can actually get there. So so it's, I think quite a positive experience. Thank you all for those who attended it. Thanks, Hones. Okay. Okay. So Let's talk about that open discussion about the charter. So if I go back to to those documents that we that we've just recently adopted The the rationale for adopting those documents was that These documents are a profile of a JOT document that wasn't defined in that pathway group. So we felt that it's in the scope of the oath by group as it is today, define as with the in the context of the charter. Right? But there are some questions about this. And, we wanna kind of have an open in here, we wouldn't have any slides prepared for this. We just wanna Get that feeling of people, on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "What do they think? Like, is it really in the scope based on whatever that the chart up today is talking about, or is it maybe the short term needs some tweaking or maybe a major rich rehash of the the chapter. We just wanna get that feedback from from the work group And and see how we can make sure that the workgroup Charter is well defined to cover those documents. Any anybody has any thoughts about this. Let me think Justin Richard here. So I do think that it might be the wrong question to ask how do we change the charter to fit these documents that we've adopted And instead, we should be asking, what is the charter What what really should be the remit of this working group? You know, what what is the the reach of this group as we would see it, especially if there is new work that is spinning up in the IETF that might be a more focused home for, for some of the work that OAuth has has taken on so far. I know that's not a popular thing to say in this group. I Oh, no. If you yeah. Yeah. Hannah says it's totally fine. I'll I'll I'll let him take all the flaming arrows thing. But regardless, I think that that's something that, we, as a group, really need to question, like, what is, what is our identity as a working we've been around a very long time now. By, by IETF Working Group Standards. And we've done a lot of really, really great stuff. But I would be hard pressed to succinctly explain to somebody what the OAuth working group actually does today because we're not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "building OAuth. OAuth. Was done a decade ago plus. So we've done extensions to all off. We've done stuff that We're not just doing extensions still off. SD Jot is not an extension to OAuth. Jot's not even an extension to OAuth. It's not. Yeah. There's a lot of yeah. But but but there's a there's a lot of things that are that we've done here because we've done something that's kind of like it here, and that's That's kind of the strongest argument that's been given for a lot of things. Now I'm not saying that we rip out all of the documents that we've adopted and ship them off elsewhere or something like that. But I do think that if we're thinking about what is the charter of this working group, we need to in instead of looking at it in terms of how do we stretch the charter around the things that we that we're going to do, we need to figure out what it is that we're actually interested on doing. And if that is extensions to does it mean to be an extension to LOA? You know, how far does that net cast? And don't think that that's necessarily an easy and succinct answer, and I think that there's gonna be a lot of back and forth coming to, coming to that, sort of conclusion, but I think it's something that we have to do. Okay. Thanks to Justin. Micah. Mike Jones, I'm gonna Take, fairly pregnantist point of view that de facto, the OAuth Working Group is doing a lot of good work and continues, finishing good work. Back. And I don't think any particular course correction is needed. We're having well informed adoption discussions about all the work that's adopted or not, And, I'm happy with where we are Thanks, Mike."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "Brian. Hey, maybe sent this before on the mail list, but I wanna reiterate So my own justification for the SD job work in particular being within the remed of the auth working group. Basically, just based on precedent and history that jot itself was developed within this group, and his general purpose token format that's that's seen wide widespread usage and doing the stage art. Which is basically an extension or I don't know what you call it, but it it's building on top of that the job work directly, I think makes a lot of sons, just based on historical precedent to to continue to do within this group home. I say that, basically agreeing with everything to and said, but wanting to wanting to continue, that work here and and under the assumption too that it I I think it's much closer to being done than than being starting, and and I don't wanna see, that worked to rail didn't say that very well, but that's what I got. So so Right. Yeah. Sorry. So your thinking is that you think what maybe we need tomb kind of work on that charter to make it clear or expand it or, like, what's what's the the right course of action from here. I, yeah, I don't know exactly. I know my statement didn't help, of course, a action but I I think having not even probably read the charter recently. I don't know the exact words in it, which is probably a mistake, but have have got a my thoughts about appropriateness of work based on just prior work that the the working group's done here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "And I I wouldn't necessarily question the the new stuff that's going on as well, but I don't know. I I guess I was just trying to reiterate my own my own thoughts about one one particular document that I'm invested being here. Which I think is appropriate and why and and encouraging us not to to revisit things, necessarily, I guess. Sorry. I've been since 1:31 o'clock my time here. So I'm less coherent than even usual. O'Brien. Appreciate it. Ori. Hi. Rory Steele. So I know. And I just liked Here we go. It's web authorization. Right? Get closer. Can't. It's it's web authorization. Right? So so the web is more than HTTP. And I think authorization is more than Jose. And I think those are the dimensions, of, like, inquiry that I have I agree with most everything Brian and Justin have said, I don't think Is any reas like, the work that's done here is excellent. Don't think there's any reason to move work that's progressing. But when you think about attracting new people, should also think about repelling people to the other places when what they bring here is not for here. So you know, In the context of cozy and seabor, I think there's obvious places you would send them. In the context of HTTP, transports for authorization, you know, tokens. Or other transports? Where where do you send them? So that that's the sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "I think about the web and the remit of this group, think about what has the web become since we finished all the work, and we just started only doing extensions on the, parts of this that have done have gone really well. It's not an answer. It's just I I think about especially the cozy hosey dynamic as being a continual sort of piece that will come up here, and and it is like CWP's weren't done here. JWTs were done here. Is that gonna divide us forever? Yeah. That's the question that I have. So so like in in your mind then, from a chartering perspective, It don't seem to think that we need to charter as long as we maybe if we have new work, that we think should go somewhere else. We'd direct it to that right place? Is that is that what you're saying? If if you're if when people bring seaborne work here, in particular, you know, OL status list in JWT format. That seems great. OAuth status list in CWT format. Why don't you send that to where CDMTs were made. Under the same argument that you do SD Jot here because this is where shots were made. Right? So so newer folks folks who are newer to IETF, that's the framework with which they approach Where am I supposed to bring my seabor cozy thing? Mhmm. Personally, I find most of the advice that I'm looking for as I build seaborne and cozy structures actually here. So, I don't have a good answer to, like, how to solve that, but I think You the next charter needs to give that answer to people. When they read the charter. Got it. Thanks. Thanks, over. Ron, Hi, Rowan May. As a, you know, sort of pseudo outsider to this group I've I find the it a little bizarre, just that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "Jots got done here instead of in Jose. And, So Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, I'm I'm I'm I'm not throwing stones. I'm just saying, you know, it seems weird. Well, I picked it up by the storm. What what, rather than picking up a stone, the the thing that I'm observing is that. The semantics, there's a lot of common semantics between between, you know, suit of beauty and jots. And between s t jot and s t SDJOT and ST you know, Jose's stuff. Right? Yeah. I just can't pronounce it in CWT, and I can't pronounce it caught either. It just doesn't seem right. But But, yeah, what I guess what I'm I'm saying is that The having a having a place to discuss the semantics that are in common regardless of the format, seems like that would be a nice thing to have. And if we can't have that, then the the next best thing would just be to document better what it is that we actually do in this group of people. And maybe give it a different name. Vexin Ron, I I will answer the question about why was the JWT done here, and and also why the CWT was done in Ace, the JSON Web doc almost done here because it was the attempt to fill one of the gaps in the OS protocol because the access token wasn't the format wasn't standardized and there were different formats being used in the expertise and the interest was in this group. Later, of course, we found out that people use the JWT for all sorts of other purposes, which we at that time didn't envision, like, some of the users are probably questionable. But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "But that's what it is. The CWT on the other hand, was an artifact of the attempt to create a new working group to use OS in a in, in a constrained environment where we basically replaced HTTP with co op, the CWT shrinks it down, the the JSON WebTO can shrink it down and then coded it in cozy and seabor And that's that's why it ended up in ace rather than here. Was that a good idea to do it in the other group? I'm not entirely sure because the the working group turned into everything that sounds remotely constrained is now in ace. But but That's we can argue that another day Did you want me to stay up here? Did you have a question? Or No. I just correcting because you said you didn't know why this was done, and it didn't appear to be useful, but it actually a very good reasoning of why we did that. I I did I didn't mean like that I didn't understand why how that happened, how that came about. It was more that why the '80s didn't say why the ASG didn't say just go do this in Jose or just go, like, make any working group, you know, Like, that's what I meant. More as a sort of a semi rhetorical question. I I think if there's no hotline because in some sense, it's it's you can argue either way. Right? Why why things should go here or there. It's the same if working groups go belonging in different areas in any case, it's water under the bridge. So But the the the thing is is semantic like, either we want to have something that has semantics, as a separate thing or we wanna say what we actually do here. So to the Jose working request, I was just checking the timeline. It was closed NASA, NASH, I think it's it's my turn. I I will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "say Am I audible? Yeah. Thanks. So I I will say 2 things that I, that appear to be intention, but I I think actually aren't. So on the one hand, I think that there is a clear kind of demark, that that the the OAuth scope has grown enough that there is a logical breakpoint that has emerged And I think the need probably hit it, in the chat when with the difference between the traditional OAuth model of roles in this 3 party model that has has come up more recently. The Issuer Holderifier model, I I think, you know, following up on the spice buff, you know, if that turned into something, that's probably a logical cut point to take some of the scope, that OAuth has created in that 3 person model and and move it over there. But I I also agree with with Brian that we shouldn't slow things down here. So there, even, you know, if there, there is a little bit of, you know, scope beyond the breakpoint right now we should keep that work going. And moving and do it in the laws for now, while we figure out whether we're gonna do a dedicated thing for the stuff beyond the breakpoint. K. Thanks. Thanks, Richard. Manual. Yes. Hi. My name is Fontaine Harshmesh. I'm a newbie. So this be a stupid question. I apologize in advance. Was looking for a group that does authentication. I believe this is the closest, that there is. And so we we're working for a few years. We've been working on an infrastructure leveraging confidential computing extensively. We stumbled into an architecture that essentially reduces authentication of an entity to its own personal agent. So there's only one authentication authority, if you want, or server that server runs in a confidential computing machine, which means it is verified. It is attested. So it has a very high level"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "of security, and it can also be a it can it can convey a level of assurance to any other relying party that would like to rely on that also, authentication. So my question is, echoing a little bit what Ari was saying is this the right place? Is there another group where should we go with this new approach how how do we socialize, this new this new vision. Thank you. Thanks, man. I think authentication is out of scope for the auth work group. It mainly focused authorization. It's an authorization framework. So Yeah. We can discuss where that work should go in in different place, in a different context, maybe the sick sick dispatch might be the right place but, let let's take this, offline. Mike. Mike Jones. I'm gonna go back to my pragmatist statements. Often decisions are the result of the people involved in making the decisions. And having been there and tried to get Jose to do Jot. Jim Schad was chair. He didn't want it. Didn't happen there. Oh, I saw a need for it. Well, I did it. Kind of the same for How, did CWT end up in Ace? Jim was pretty influential and cozy where I thought it belonged. He didn't want it. It You know, we found another home. This is the way things actually happen. I'm I'm not saying that these statements are particularly actionable, but, you know, to Rohan's question, how did we end up with the decisions we made, it's because the involved were influential and shaped what the outcomes were and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "I'm okay with all the outcomes. K. Thanks, Mike. Ryan, did you wanna say something? Yeah. Thanks. Oh, I'm not quite sure how to say it. We seem to be revisiting this sort of ongoing tension about whether some of these documents should live in a working group that doesn't yet exists and whether this that working group should be formed on a basis for having these documents. And I I they're all legitimate questions. I don't right now how to answer it other than maybe the the more pragmatic take that that there's work being done, people interested in in working on these things now. And they were my dog. I apologize. I don't know how to add to it, but I I do think that there's been a lot of assumptions and and maybe miscommunications about where things should or shouldn't be as well as different motivations of people interested in in in getting work done, but also interested in potentially different outcomes or or at least processes as to how it comes. And I'm just rambling. So, but I'll give the mic back to my daughter. Thanks, Brian. Peer. I I wonder, I'm So one thought that comes up when I think about getting work done is making sure that you have the right people to do that work. And one of the things that's interesting about you know, people who participate in OAuth is that they also participate in many other identity aspects. Right? So in some ways, OAuth. Is and it wants a convenient or, like, the question of charter is perhaps less in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "than the fact that we have the right people here to get work done. And, or at least type I think we have to write. But, you know, and so maybe, you know, another way to look at this is if we had other working groups or another working group. Or we felt the need to have this sort of you know, disconnecting or breaking off work, as as Richard has pointed out, you know, are we just gonna have another working group with the same set of people? Right? Is that actually how how do we become more efficient in how we use this community of people with expertise in the space if we do that or not. Okay. Thanks, Peter. Anybody else has any comments, questions, Yeah. Roman. So, Yeah. Yeah. Hi. This is Roman. I'll is probably both as individuals AD because I don't know how to split this kind of feedback apart. So I actually learned some new words that I think the group has been using before, but I never realized the significance and then I don't not sure whether Christina's presentation, or is there kind of Justin in the spice bot? So I heard that on deck, as I was trying to understand what the spice, what the spice scope was. I heard there is, what was it, it was about there's a token format or whatever was kind of the right word. There's an idea of kind of what's languages. So that seems like here in this working group, that re traffic, that's a jot kind of here. But I observe That's not explicitly named as a first order thing in the protocol. I also we we we were kinda going back and forth on what does it mean to have a spice protocol and I I think the analog here is that's many, if not all of the OAuth kind of framework. And I think came out in Spison. I think we have the analog hearing office. Like, we're actually to scribing,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "profiles or describing how particular communities might use it, and that might be web here. It's clearly been using in other places kind of as well. So if we were to think about how to change the OAuth charter I would at least maybe try to make some of these things first order because it's clear there's interest and continuing to evolve kind of jot, don't say in the charter, that's good. There's probably continued evolution of OAuth kind of maintenance watching other key and successful IETF technologies, I'd hate not to have a working group to continue to evolve. Anything, I wouldn't wanna have an issue or an excitement around extension come up, and we've where do we put that? This technology is too important to leave that up to chance from that kind of, frankly, So I'm not saying, you know, we we need kind of a new chartered. It's just hearing how we talk about Spice and then at the mic here about creating distinct lanes, like you were talking kind of word. I might make things more even more for order if we were to change the language Thanks, Raman. Justin. Yeah. 2 bits. One is that just because we've made certain decisions in the past, which we've now rehashed several times in this last few minutes doesn't mean we need to keep making those decisions the same way going forward. And I think that this discussion about, refocusing the OAuth charter, can help with that. I think that, Roman's suggestion of, you know, put Jot into the OAuth charter Sure. I mean, it ended up here through a weird political dance, but It's year. And so you know, it, that would probably make sense to at least admit that that is now something that we should officially care about. Same thing with, SD Draw as a format for the document. Makes a certain amount of sense. But this is the second bit. We should also be careful that we're not So widely welcoming that anything that is vaguely in tangent to the people who are working on OAuth."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "Ends up in this working group. And I think that as a community, we've We've done some amazing things together over the years. Absolutely proud of most of what we've done here. And, And I I think we're gonna continue to do that. But I think we need to be we do need to be careful that it doesn't just come become like, oh, this is the club of us and we do these things because we happen to be interested in it. And this is a forum that we know that we can dump this work onto if we if we kind of put it in the right light to make it feel vaguely tangentially related to this thing called OAuth, which we're not even sure what anymore. Thanks, Justin. Paul. Hey. This is Paul. So I think in an ideal world, SDJOT and SDJOT VC maybe status list belongs to spice. I think it makes sense to gather all these data formats into one group. I can understand that on the other hand, I like, We want to issue government credentials in IdIS and there is a particular time travel around this. And I highly appreciate the expertise on the OAuth group. The reputation that comes with it, I think that STJOT NASA, obviously, is the best Kenny day that we have. Partly because of the expertise of the OS group So I'm a bit hesitant to pull them out now, because the Idus Pros is highly How do you say that? Volatile. And, until these things are not settled down, I have the fear that if we're pulling these specifications out of oauth,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "into something new that is not established repute does not have as big as a reputation as OAuth. And might have might need some time to find itself, I think it's dangerous. So I think it's a good idea, but maybe the time is not right yet. Thank you. Okay. I've closed the mic because we have one presentation to go So sorry, guys. Sorry, Dennis and and Mike. To summarize, like, it seems Hold on one second. Okay. So so the quick summary is for what we've heard so far is that we think that the documents that we've adopted so far those documents, should stay here. I don't think anybody is arguing for them to be moved somewhere else. Honestly there is no place, Either way. So that that's nobody is ready to take those anyway. But there is room for maybe improvements in that oath charter to include things that we've delivered in the past and maybe something around things that we're doing right now. So that's my our summary here. And anything that You think we missed here just that a fair summary. And then maybe we can work on that chapter and kind of adjust it and and makes sense of it. Sorry."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Yeah. I know you you you close or No. No. This is this is I'm asking you to provide feedback here. So but I'm gonna close it quickly. Wanna echo what Paul said. This group has a reputation. Whether you invite people to bring their token format thing that has identity related, protocol parameters embedded in it. If you invite them here or not, They're still gonna want to bring it here because they know the people who are here, they're gonna send it to the list. They're gonna ask for reviews. So I think just a combination of of what what you said and what what Mike Jones said is it's necessary to have the charter reflect the reality of what you get from review here. Okay. 7. Okay. Thank you. Let's close this and And there, we'll continue that think about how we wanna kind of adjust that that chapter. Okay? Thank you. Okay. Let me close this here and There you go. Doctor. Jones. It Yeah. Go ahead. Thank you. Yes. Hello, everybody. I'm going to talk about SD Gerard. and, the changes that we did since the last IETF Next slide, please. We, this is, in this case, Christina, rhina me. Thanks a lot. So SD JWT, We, so I'm not going to the details yet, obviously, because we only have, 10 minutes time. So, what what changed since last time? We had one bigger, normative change, changed in the format. Of SD drought."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:06",
    "text": "I'll go into the details, in the next slides but the idea is that, There's a new hash in one of the artifacts that ensures that the presentation integrity, is insured. Then we, did a lot of work around, making the spec more clear, restructuring it a bit. In the previous, previous iterations, we added some features. We rewrote some sections, but there was need for a bit of restructuring in the spec. To ensure that it's, the concepts I explained well, and that the example is in the right place. So this is what we did. Also obviously got a bit of editorial feedback like, using more precise wording, some of the things. And, We did some smaller, normative changes as well. But but they don't affect the format. So for example, we, what's a specific case in the algorithm defining the verification. So we we ensure that if you have a claim in the SD drought that controls the validity of the SD jot that it is actually checked after decoding the payload. And we also clarified that our special reserved claim names, or strings. NSE draw it, must not be used anywhere else. Which is the underscore SD and the dot dot dot. Both both of these are used to express, specific structures in SD charts. Then a couple of other, changes as well. We, found some some minor issues in the examples that we fake we added an Yana media type registration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "for, the dressing serialization, we added the straw claims and, of course, Ian. To the registration requests in the spec And we also made a couple of changes around the two sections that we have that discuss the optional, Jason Civilization, and, the section talking about enveloping SD drops. Both of these sections contain very little normative, wording the idea is just to give, relatively open ended guidance to to how to to handle or to encode SD Draws also using the JWT JSON serialization and how to, if if you need to wrap anesthesia art, how to do that? So coming back to that former change that we have, I'd like to, spend two slides on that. Next one, please. Next one. This is a slide that is familiar to those that, watch one of the earlier presentations on SD drought in the top part, you see what the issuer creates that is the SD jot. So the issue has signed jot. That contains, the plain text claims, plus the hashes of the so called disclosures. For those claims that can be selectively disclosed. And on the right side, that is closures, which are just basics to 4, encoder JSON arrays. That contain a solved claim name and claim value. This is what the issue of issues Only the first part assigned. This is then sent to the holder the wallet. And then in the bottom part, you see what happens when the holder wants to present that to some verifier. The whole hour, obviously, sends the issue assigned part that CJ Rod? Plus selector subset of the disclosures."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "Plus the so called holder binding jot, at least to be called holder binding jot the idea is that you have you take a nonce and audience of transaction specific values. And the holder signs these using a private key for which the matching public key was, attested her in the cathedral by the issuer. So to hold that proves possession of a key or control over key. By signing transaction specific values. Now the thing is, those three things are relatively disconnected obviously, the hold up binding jot must belong to the same key that this, test it to in the seed rod. Disclosures must belong to their seed rod. But the whole artifact is not protected. I don't think that is a big problem. Usually it's transferred over a secure channel. And even if an attack can modify it usually the, on the Like, the only real attack would be removing some of the disclosures. So not super critical Also, we got a lot of questions about this attack, but it's, it just to be not really clear what the like, what this could lead to in in real world applications. I take questions afterwards. That's fine. So what we did Next slide, please. We introduced a new artifact our new, value. That's called _st_hash. And that is just that hash value the hash over everything that precedes the holder binding jot or key binding jot as it is called now. So the whole that creates the the draft, puts the hash, of the SD drought and the selected disclosures into it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "This can be verified. So we have an integrity protection over the whole presentation obviously as long as key binding jot, is is also checked by the verifying. Okay. So that's the normative change that we have. And we we make that, are you required? So you you have to do it it's not optional. So, we don't need to discuss about like interoperability or in which cases you should use it on, which cases you you shouldn't use Next slide, please. This is what it looks like. On the wire, so to say, the rec part is VSC drought. The green part below that is the disclosures. In the blue part is the key binding jot, and in the key binding jot, buddy, you see the underscore Yanesco hash, which is the hash over everything that is red or green. Okay. Next one, please. Next steps for our specification we got a couple of comments, that we're discussing on the mailing list as we probably saw. Neil made comments on the cryptography, of the whole thing think we're closing in on, on actually writing spec texts for that and, hopefully addressing the issues in the next, spec version. Also, I don't expect any former changes to come out of that that would probably result in you, considerate, like, security advice, security considerations. We've got a couple of issues on the issue tracker. Nothing too major in that. Yep. So, essentially, things that we need to clarify or things that we need to address, but not in the car font. I think the, format so the format, except for the hash the rest of the cathedral art, has been mostly stable or has been really stable for quite some time now, actually."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "And we don't have any issues open, or we haven't thought of any issues. That were introduced breaking changes. Got a couple of implementations already. Mine implementations last that I counted probably there a couple of ones that we don't even know about. So, yeah, and people start using this so it would be good if we credit credit like like like like if we, as a working group, think that This is stable. It would be good if we, could think about a working group last call sometime, in the future, once we have addressed these this text listed here on the slide. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Ron. Yeah. I was just gonna if if you're interested, a use case for how, a practical attack that would motivate this SD hash. Yes. Please. In Mimi, have a architecture where you have could have a client going, you know, client server server server client. Because you've going through multiple providers. And so in this case, the local provider could see a request and could snip out disclosures and could add disclosures that are from you that are valid. For meta meta 1 request. So I could have one request, you know, one message that that had, you know, a set of disclosures, let's say, nearly a full set of disclosures that, was disclosing to one party. Could remember those, sniff them out, and then could paste them in to a request going right, to other providers. So as long as it's all based on the same issue assigned part, exact. And one party that could be potentially malicious cease or can manipulate multiple messages passing through Yes. That's yeah. And, and then, like, since we're talking you know, big tech companies that do advertising. This is not an unrealistic they might want to do so. Yep. Yep. So, I mean, that's that's why we added the hash in the end. Cross we thought it's, It's useful to have even"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "if the attacks went up. That clear to us. Like, obviously ran a cert that the text, but Yeah. Oh, no. You you go ahead. It was my mistake here. Oh, sorry. I'm almost certain you'd cover this on the list, but I'm Splanking on it now. There's potentially, I guess, an agility mismatch in the hash algorithm used for the protecting the entire envelope versus the one used in the redaction digest sort of process. Yep. I thought you I think you've you you How did how do you, basically, prevent people from having having to implement multiple hash algorithms to obtain this security feature. I think we haven't decided on that yet. So, that I don't know yet, but it's one of the issues, I think. 35936. Okay. One of them. So that that would also be. If you have an idea that would best place to I do have an idea. You should you should lock it to the same scheme that the issuer committed to so that for, for any given issued token that relies on a fixed hash, And that's always that's mandatory. Already. That that the holder is, like, basically bound by that scheme and then, you know, You'll still have the, hash agility issue, multiple issuers. Yep. Could could still decide they like different hash algorithms, but at least the holder doesn't get to pick a different one. I think that makes sense. That's what it says now, isn't it? Doctor. 2nd? Sorry. I didn't understand. That's exactly what it says now. Christina? Yeah. Right. Anyway, let's discuss later."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Yeah. I think I think I think Brian's right because the the hash is expressed in the issuer assigned job. And so it's whatever the issuer says and can't be changed. Of of of of So if I if I understand the draft correctly, that's It's it's we're already okay from the perspective of a word race. But I I'm queued to to say a couple things. So I'm fairly new to the straps, but, obviously, I'm trying to implement it. And overall, yeah, I I I concur with the assessment here that this is getting pretty good for Hanger call it, like, a lot of the SC hash stuff that you were just talking about. The major thing that I was concerned about with this is the inclusion of key binding because it seemed like a pretty orthogonal thing from, selective disclosures. So it's on the one end, not all that connected as a selective disclosure, And on the other hand, seems useful without selective disclosure like it. Yeah. I'm a I'm a jot with the CNF in, then it's useful to have key binding, when you present that job. So my major suggestion for this graph would be to kind of slice that key by any out and put it elsewhere. So it's more reusable. But other than that, it looks pretty good. Question I had for you is, whether there's been any any formal modeling on the key binding house, because clearly, as as you're talking about, there's some this whole thing gets done together. Seems like a domain where formal, a formal model would not be too complicated and would help could help find some corner cases. But overall, just to to cap that off, like, 1, so it's, again, it's working. So regarding the first thing, or actually regarding both that you mentioned. I think the key binding mechanism It is extremely simple. I mean, it's a fine chart. So I think it is, it is good to have that in SD drug. Because it will be, but it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "closely connected to the use cases that you use selective disclosure for. I think in most use cases, you will want to have some kind key binding. So it's good to have that in the cathedral expect itself. It's also relatively simple. If you take that out and put it into a different, like, in a separate spec, I think, there wouldn't be much to specify. It's a draw. You put 2 claims into it, or 3 in this case. And actually the 3rd claim is closely connected to the data format that you're using. So it's closely TSD chart. So I'm wondering if this like, If this mechanism is not too simple to pull it out, treat it a different spec. almost out of time. Yeah. We're we're we're Having done quite a bit of formal analysis I think analyzing key binding jobs would be extremely boring. So I don't expect that to be much to formally analyze, to be honest. K. Tristan. Yeah. So I'm trusting. I'm from and one of those, implementations of SD Jot that hasn't been published. Or I'm not, but I never won. Please send us the link Yeah. Yeah. No. Definitely. The So we we did run into a few issues internally while reviewing it. Around, some of the more complex constructions with, like a recursive SDJOT with whole claims of the same digest and that kind of thing. And the mailing list was great, sort of telling us what your thoughts on it were and what your intentions were, the fact that it was sort of unclear to us you know, from the spec was sort of an issue. And so I guess I was wondering where would you guys like to see, clarifications, like, would you like to see negative examples in the spec? Would you like to see, poor requests against, like, as your your pipeline rabbit is it?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "Version is sort of a kinanical representation almost. Where do those clarifications probably live? I think it's one of the issues that you have on the check. I'm not quite sure. At least it's one of the issues that I have on the back of my mind to fix, because it does questions came up. I think also independently from somebody else. It's a clarification that we need to learn the spec first. Where we say, okay, if you encounter this condition, this this is invalid, right? And, then the Python implementation follows. If you want, a pre request is very welcome for for us back, if you think, you can do that. That would be great. K. I we're out of time. Sorry. David, I closed the queue, but do you have a quick comment, Oh, sure. So I and I've seen people can hear me. The, Just like we had a profile for JOTS for use for access token. I can see, eventually probably sooner than later. Having a profile of how to use SD Johns within OAuth. At that point, the key binding here actually would be an alternative to depop. And you could, squinting through a lens think that, the reason we didn't do it that way is because We didn't have the token that we could say This is where it goes. But, access token that was an SD job, we could actually say this is how proof of possession works, and it went to using a lot of depop again in defining what that token contains. Okay. Thank you, David. Brian Are you trying to say something as co author. No. I'm sorry. Never mind me. Okay. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "Thank you all. See you tomorrow. Yeah."
  }
]
