[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "testing one two three testing [Music] okay good morning this time for reals for those that are presenting please use the mic appropriately exactly please keep it in front of your face that way everyone in the room can hear and the remote participants can also hear we have a remote participants or maybe we will eventually for those presenting there\u0027s a clicker you can click your slides you can point the screen Oh cat toy okay we have a jabber scribe I believe and a note sticker the note taker yes and I think Natan maybe Natalie was gonna be the divers crying damn it no okay well you need a prescribed then can\u0027t go until we have a Jeffers Krab can\u0027t you just tell nook the XMPP port is there someone who knows how to jabber and would like to be the jabber scribe awesome Thank You Joel great now we can move forward here is the note well hopefully you\u0027ve noted it well earlier and we can move on the print is intentionally tiny there\u0027s a bunch of resources for the meeting where the meeting is here meeting agenda material should all be updated with the current set of slides that are going to be presented all the rest of that you be down on the slides and read this on your own at your own leisure there blue sheets going around please be sure to sign the blue sheet and pass it at the person to your left or right where it didn\u0027t come from we have a minute a cur a jabber scribe we have an agenda it looks like this oh it\u0027s not quite all BMP this time there\u0027s some BGP but no DNS so it\u0027s like my other meeting okay so is Shriram around oh wait we should sorry actually all of these are going to be talked about except for wkc behavior and a.s cones joke do you want to say something about your heya scones we are working on an update and we\u0027ll person at the next ITF meeting okay and ideally the wkc behavior person who\u0027s going to present can just update quickly before his presentation we have a very very short time span today we have one hour so all presenters will be kept very close to the time limits noted yes sir comment down a as clones is Randy Bush IJ darkus um would anybody interested in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "actually trying to make that into something useful and sensible um talk to some people who know something about security sure probably okay incredibly helpful sorry the one piece of sort of working group business to actually talk about today is this grow registries people should read this and comment it and we can push it forward to work your blessed call pretty quickly it\u0027s changing a bunch of the the registries for BMP to be expert required to kind of first-come first-serve which I think there\u0027s no reason not to date change them to the first come first serve so at least in my opinion but I\u0027m just one person please have a read into some comments on the list then we can move it forward or decide not to do it okay Shriram please come to the mic Shriram please come to the mic you\u0027re up you have ten minutes that includes questions no exceptions oh also please stay in the pink thing you can hold a mic like I did here\u0027s the clicker so good morning so this is worker that\u0027s been in the IDR working group for the past three years or so today we are presenting it here because we are making a change trying to make a change from the BGP attribute to BGP community for carrying the route leak protection information and they hope there is that with BGP community the deployed deployment can be much faster considering that vendor implementation changes would not be required so we basically have two parameters that are part of the route leak protection or the RL p f-- information those are the down only and the leak detected so download lis basically the semantics is that s is telling the subsequent a SS that I am sending it to a customer or a lateral peer and subsequently the update should not go to a lateral peer or a transit provider the L leak indication is that it the semantics is that the s and detected a leak the update came from a customer the the ISP doesn\u0027t have an alternate route so it accepted that route and propagating it but it is warning the subsequent a SS that I detected a leak but I had to propagate it because of I would have unreachable ax T otherwise so I will not go into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "describing the semantics any further than that there are a bunch of slides with the scenarios please feel free to walk through them we we did present it in the IDR interim meeting last week so I\u0027ll skip through the simple detailed explanations and the scenarios of the our LP semantics and I would like to jump - because we have elected we would like to allow more time for the discussion and feedback on the community choice our type of community etcetera so let me just skip the various things detection rules policy recommendation these are all there in detail in the draft as well as in this slides as well as some more slides at the back please grab us in the hallway or send us questions on the list we\u0027ll be happy to discuss the semantics with you if you have any questions or suggestions but so we are jumping right ahead to the community use of community so here we have three choices regular community large community and extended community with the regular community the limitation that we have is that there is only 16 a bits of payload we have the do and the L 2 separate indicators as part of part of the RL p information the do is 32-bit a s and the L is also a 32-bit a SN so if we lose use regular community that I don\u0027t have a slide on that if you use regular community we have only 16-bit payload limitation we\u0027ll have to perform some tricks and that can be done and it can be shown that with using three regular communities we can accommodate the do and the L the 2\u0027s and values on the other hand if we use a large community then we have 96 bits readily available of which the first 32 bits are global administrator and then we can put the do and the L as the subsequent three or four Rockets and another four Rockets so all of that is accommodated in one large community next slide the extended community here we have we will require two community attributes to accommodate the do and the LA SN values we can come we can accommodate the s and values as they are without any further compression or encoding so two community attributes that does it next this is the slide where we want to spend rest of the time also so for the rest of the my remaining time please focus on these questions we would love to have you have a discussion around these questions here so basically the questions are we we are making this considering missing making this transition from attribute to community if you advised otherwise please let us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "know your thoughts about that and if the community is good to go with then the choice between regular community versus large what\u0027s this extended we would like to also request your feedback on which of these would work best in terms of the chart in terms of a chance to propagate the farthest and the next table the trend is giving says community bgp communities have beings so so that sounds like music to me as far as this draft goes although his his the intent of his talk is different so here the community value should propagate as long as the as far as the update propagates so that is that would be best if that that happens and finally which of these is best in terms of the deployment speed with that I would like to open it up for questions two and a half minutes okay thank you who you are for Deutsche Telekom well this looks fairly easy the large communities can do it the other way the other things are somewhat complicated and we don\u0027t like complicated and yes for the large communities to make sure that the propagation works the right way we quite certainly will need a little bit of documentation a giving advice on how to handle this in the local come in the local policy configurations without giving that advice kind of you you you you are not you are not getting an idea how it\u0027s going to be handled and actually with the large communities available for things like this my take is that doing some advice on how to have how to handle this in policies is actually a good thing to be done even keeping in mind the stuff that Randy will be talking about mmm so quite quite clearly end of course the large communities work essentially right now well okay my configuration generator can handle it unfortunately the roll out of the Rooter software has not been optimized for pushing out the large communities first but that is that is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:16",
    "text": "matter of time that is particular to certain networks and kind of anything done in extended communities or a separate attribute would take even longer than large community deployment okay thank you thank you for all that feedback in terms of the policy recommendation we have it in the draft the basic minimum policy but you are looking for even more detail I understand okay Thank You Jacob Heights at Cisco I work on XR io a six hour and by default does not pass communities is someone has to configure to have the communities all arts communities or extended communities to be passed if you know if you\u0027re relying on the leaking as2 dutifully pass along any communities or attributes then your relying on them okay so yeah so we just respond say seconds so the leaking is if it\u0027s not doing the RLP hopefully hopefully it\u0027s not not yet RLP adapted or or LP but however we are hoping that even though it\u0027s not doing our LP it\u0027s doing other things at least right in terms of passing a community when it needs to be passed through like a transitive community okay thank you job Snyder\u0027s entity I will note that for large communities there does not yet exist a methods to have Ayanna register well-known values so a draft needs to be produced to allow for that type of assignments to be possible seven triple nine your RFC is large community so seven nine nine nine there is no Ayana registry for well-known large communities kind of kind of the IDR chairs have figured out that they can request the global administrator AS and that will go into that will go into the registry there okay this is now and kind of kind of my take is that working more with large communities we probably will be evolving that some way but not the way has been the way has been checked for actually doing this thank you okay thank you very much that sounds good what that feedback on the list will be very much appreciated Randy Bush Europe yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "super confusing you control your own fate he\u0027s behind a bush i J darkest how many people were at ie PG and I probably I still have to give this anyway sorry we could have escaped uh okay this is mainly I\u0027ll try to be quick community is has been growing that graphs up to the right all graphs go up to the right don\u0027t they um the communities are ill-defined um it\u0027s not just that large ones there\u0027s no registry the small ones we really you know it\u0027s like putting semantics and comments statements we really don\u0027t know what they mean we really have no rules for them etc the place we have rules is BGP attributes not communities okay so the flavors we have of communities are these that the major taxa are active and passive ones but we really don\u0027t know what any of it means that\u0027s just the Wild West out there um the propagations a problem um the it said that you should filter dr. da da people don\u0027t expect them to propagate very wildly I for one did not expect them to propagate wildly I was surprised the fact is that 14 given 14 percent of the transit ASA\u0027s non-stop the transit a s is 14 percent propagate communities we expected I expected it to be very small but in fact 14 percent seem small but more than 50 percent of communities travel more than 4 a SS 10% travel 6 right the longest path we saw was 11 this is kind of e CDF of it you\u0027ll notice for instance that about half of the communities travel for a SS which is the diameter of most the mean diameter of the internet path length this stuff goes all over the place okay I want to talk for a moment about on and off paths if one originates P this is the this is on path this is where it\u0027s going so here\u0027s a community it\u0027s targeted towards three it goes to three that\u0027s on path this is off path it wasn\u0027t destined here but it went here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:20",
    "text": "anyway to probably should have filtered okay here\u0027s what we see in the distribution of measured communities and this is measuring through the usual broken glasses of Route views and risks etc whether as we see these communities off paths in other words this was not debt marked as destined for the AAS it was seen this is the most interesting that is not $9.99 for those of you who know that\u0027s supposed to be or by convention that\u0027s the black hole right so what these were seen off paths what\u0027s interesting is they\u0027re not seeing that so weren\u0027t seeing on path who knows this is just the Wild West it\u0027s crazy out there so we decided to break things we method we said all experiments we first tested in lab then we estimated what the impact would be so we could make sure we weren\u0027t gonna break the global Internet and then with the operator some operators consent we did some fun things out there and by the operators consent I mean for instance fastly gave us a prefix that we could hijack because they weren\u0027t using at the moment etc they were announcing it but not using it so clay these are slow is what it is so what\u0027s a remote triggered black holes supposed to do a s1 is supposed to say it\u0027s supposed to say hey a s2 please traffic sync this prefix and it\u0027s usually you send it long prefix like a 32 so that you\u0027re upstream provider sinks something that\u0027s being das attacked okay and there\u0027s all sorts of rules about it in fact an attack e can hijack the prefix okay here\u0027s an attacker hijacks the prefix announces it and a s3 syncs traffic that a s1 really wanted no is like this any better ah so this works well multi-hop in other words from far away triggering it\u0027s possible for attributes because the black hole prefix is more specific you usually say black hole is 32 out of my 24 and there was the the first presentation at Nanog had a recipe for doing this that had a bug in it and of course that bug propagated in documentation etc they checked the black hole community and implemented it before checking whether the prefix was should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "have been announced by the person from whom they\u0027ve received it no validation for object for communities is possible at all there\u0027s no attribution there\u0027s no signature there\u0027s no nothing okay traffic stealing is cool here we were supposed to have this one announces p1 das path grows the a s path grows here we\u0027ve got an ass path went to four here we\u0027ve got nay s path length of five traffic goes as we expected as2 colludes with a S 5 and s 2 says hey a s 6 please prepend and so what happens is this is now longer path I can push the right button so traffic starts this way it goes back past evil and but this AAS can intercept the traffic get the data from it etc etc spyware what does this actually happen on the Internet of course not here\u0027s where it happens here\u0027s a dying report etc it\u0027s actually in used attacking financial institutions okay so the ASN value is totally ambiguous who\u0027s the sender and receiver even than the ones that are documented there\u0027s no defined semantics values can be anything it\u0027s used for both signaling and triggering actions there\u0027s no cryptographic protection actually you don\u0027t know who on the path inserted the community it\u0027s hard to apply filters or understand what the heck is going on ok I read it on the internet so it has to be good and true they can be modified and removed by every a s unless you want to modify the well-known ones in which case some notable I\u0027m prouder implementers here don\u0027t let you do it very easily um no attribution again no cryptographic protections but we bet on it large communities help a little some ideas don\u0027t propagate without knowing what you\u0027re doing on the input drop anything that is not addressed to you or that you don\u0027t have an agreement to pass it on to whom you\u0027re passing it and only to whom you\u0027re passing it so if Joel gives me something that\u0027s destined to ridiger do I have an agreement with both Joel and rüdiger to pass it to Ruettiger and only do it in that circumstance okay beware of the well known communities thing that\u0027s in this working group and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:22",
    "text": "will you prevent forest fires hi Jared watch Akamai I\u0027m curious the large bgp communities seem to propagate much further than the 1997 bgp communities did you study those at all know it is there any recommendations in your document around that no this is an academic paper we only got so far and okay good work for future study Chris mark cool Jared maybe your asking was Randy going to write a document in growth that has some recommendations and/or other output no that so I guess my question is should we align the behavior of the 1997 communities and the large bgp communities and the extended communities behaviors should we provide recommendation to the implementers about what those behaviors should be around there because by default the large bgp communities if they\u0027re not understood by an implementation they will be propagated because of the transitive nature of them so with that transitive nature do we want to make recommendations around stripping that so for example juniper has configuration options that allow you to say I\u0027d like to strip this unknown attribute you know or drop any routes with this unknown attribute upon receipt and that allows you to arbitrarily mash route based on you know a value within the TLV and perhaps we should give guidance to vendors around what configuration capabilities should be there and what should be there by default because most of them do not send communities by default but maybe they should or maybe we should align these behaviors one way or the other good idea thank you for volunteering Ruettiger reminder there\u0027s about 10 seconds left oh goodness yes I think I think some documentation about good practice on how the exchange what bgp information assuming what responsibilities of parties is adequate and should be done so for Randy\u0027s example about transiting stuff from Joelle to me my view would be that well ok there is bilateral agreement randy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:23",
    "text": "between you and me about what we are exchanging and that may include that you pass on something from Joelle but well ok it\u0027s your responsibility is not transitive but first is not treated well ok kind of kind of signed off with my with my yes with my with my immediate partners I have relations and I can control and whatever goes beyond this list I\u0027m sorry thank you hello please you\u0027re up hello Santa NTT communications choose lights on this two drafts BMP low Caribe and other about just to update you on what is the status so the draft was presented in Chicago in March 2017 next IDF will be a two years mark it\u0027s a key draft that is you know adding vantage points to the BMP protocol I think it\u0027s really a key draft you know it\u0027s two key drafts that we really all of us operators vendors want for a number of use cases that are described in the back half of slides so you can review them because they were already presented there is a plenty of interest there was discussion on the mailing list and things like that that there was feedback it was processed and things like that the second version of the draft only included you know refresh dates and a third version of the drafts is you know we are working it it was not possible to complete it by you know this meeting but in line with also the previous version and the previous times that I presented you know to the working group we have no structural issues with the draft nobody raised anything you know structural with it so we had only to make several clarifications like also on the mailing list it appeared clear that sometimes we spoke very loosely about what should be advertised and both you know for the other about and the local rib there was some conversation and there as being also convergence on that so we are working on those clarifications and there was only one thing in single change minor so there was in the pur pur hither Heather there was a filter flag and we want now to move that as a TLV in the pyrrha "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:23",
    "text": "message and with that I\u0027m pretty much finished I just want to say that I really think that these drafts are not rocket science they are not really trying to do anything magical it\u0027s two years almost that they are on this working group I think we should really try to wrap them up soon and move on to whatever else we want to make you know around BMP thank you and I would like to know your feedback comments if there is anything I would like to ask the room to hum to indicate whether we should start the last call procedure if you would like this document to go into last call can you please hum okay a cylinder Cisco Systems hey so we did we did conclude that BMP will be won\u0027t be overloaded with anything with respect to the global river right okay good yeah then I then I\u0027ll add my hmm Thank you Thank You Paolo you know hello everyone this is Yunnan so I\u0027m going to use five minutes to quickly describe our draft that proposes bmp4 BGP route lake detection and I\u0027m not going to discuss too much details about solution but more focused on the motivation and application scenarios so there have been measures proposed to prevent or avoid relics and these are ism or measures are typically implemented through various import and export policies and yeah there should be logic methods to validate if any role they actually happens and if these rel policies are correct so we\u0027re proposing a method that could be implemented by a single isp to validate if there\u0027s a route lake within its own AAS yeah so I\u0027m going to use three three figures to explain where our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "master stands so this is the taxi solutions so without any bgp extension that we\u0027ll discuss in the next slides mastered ice apiece are typically a using showing here using import and export policies to prevent route Lakes so for example if a route arrives from a s2 at s1 say router one and and then according to the business relationship between the two a SS router one will add a route mark or tag or something like that to the route saying okay what\u0027s the relationship between us and this information is typically expressed by a ISP specific communities and then transferred to the egress router for example here are two and then are two based on this route mark and its relationship with s REO or s4 to decide if this route is allowed to be advertised so this is a prevention method and well we\u0027d also like to discuss this bgp open policy method which to my understanding standardized the prevention method a little bit many two points first the business relationships are exchanged through the BGP open messages so that the two asses understand what their relationships are and then a second based on this exchanged information the they wrote they wrote brought mark was carried by a so called IOT C attribute through the app you clear out and then also transfer to the egress right okay up just just one last word and there were proposing a message to use BMP to upload to sorry to report the relationship within one ass so that at the control it understands if the the road to lake actually happens within its own but its own ass without depending on other sir party information or ISP and thank you maybe we can continue discussion offline thank you okay yeah in a question jared montz from Akamai we\u0027re actually using a BMP as well right now to validate our policy you know our routing policy decisions that we\u0027re making and to validate when we\u0027re actually leaking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "our route out locations where it\u0027s not intended so even you know while you\u0027re trying to capture I think some of the stuff that the gentleman behind me from curator has has suggested you know for the relationship behaviors to identify this programmatically there\u0027s cases where we have address space that we may route internally but that by policy we may not want to advertise out specific links to specific guesses so like I said we\u0027re currently using BMP to actually validate our own routing behavior and so that you know stuff like this is incredibly valuable so thank you for this thank you thank you Alexander is in Asia lips on qualification I\u0027m co-author of BGP open so so my main question is that what we are getting in advance is in terms of BP prevention I understand that with being P you are getting another rail to control but you are not preventing leaks yes progression its detection if there\u0027s actually happen so you need so you may have with BP for example BP open you may have your policy automatically configured on your routers with this thing you will have to also separately specify all your peering relationships in your beam P agent I\u0027m not arguing it it doesn\u0027t make sense but just to highlight that it does not simplify the work of preventing root leaks or detecting root leaks it\u0027s it\u0027s just an additional feature yeah yeah correct yes yes thank you thank you thank you very much yo thank you sir hi I\u0027m job Snyder\u0027s from NTT one of the grow chairs and I wanted to inform the room about some potential for work a long-standing issue is that we don\u0027t really have a canonical reference that we can give to people how to properly deploy routing security the information we have is spread out over multiple blocks some snippets and RFC\u0027s there\u0027s tribal knowledge there\u0027s great advice sort in IRC channel locks and this makes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "it hard for newcomers to the markets to set up HP filters in a proper way because we cannot point them to a document that says this is how you do it and if we look at RFC\u0027s generally speaking and RC takes at least one year to be published stable references like DCPS are very useful because they are a stable reference to a problem topic but they point to RC so the same slowness applies to BCPs as well and if we look at the problem space of routing security I feel that the life cycle of information is faster than 12 months new data sources come into existence the nature of some date data sources can change new technologies are invented or methods and be nice if we can somehow keep track of these developments but also have a document a singular URL for newcomers to use so from this context an idea has arisen to perhaps explore whether it would be possible to within ITF look if we can maybe create a living documents where we have the benefits of peer-review from the working group but perhaps can speed up its publication cycle by some means we are not the only ones that have a desire for a faster publication cycle for instance the young people with their models also face similar issues so in this context the chairs and our operations ad and ITF chair will have a meeting tomorrow to figure out if we can formulate a strategy and have grow perhaps be a working group that works on the living documents so with depth I have informed the group of things we are exploring and I would like to open up the floor for feedback a sealing of Cisco Systems I\u0027m gonna come in on the first one actually in the route this is the the idea of a security document is an excellent idea and Jeff Haas was asked to look at BGP and I was asked to look at the IGP specific you know I actually I would probably I know I assess ice but I wouldn\u0027t I haven\u0027t implemented it myself like I have OSPF and we were consistent in our progress we have made we are both not done anything yet but I think I I think this is a great idea I mean I think this really needs to be done if and if you could start the ball rolling on the BGP security one document that brings together all the pieces like a generic security considerations for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:31",
    "text": "BGP that would be excellent it would also help us during the document cycle where as you know we reference you know people bring up generic security problems and will hold up documents based on these four specific you know somebody who\u0027s just you know just like adding a single community somebody brings up ah you know some valid security concern but it\u0027s not it\u0027s it\u0027s not relevant only to this new community anyway oh I\u0027ll give others to the floor thank you I love her a thottie I think this is a great theater I loved it I wish more people would go do living documents things that live in a working group that are used for the working group that can be used for reference etc the question I have for you is what more than a draft do you need I mean why why do we need a process or extra things why isn\u0027t a draft that lives in the draft repository that it\u0027s reviewed by the working group maybe as you said in the others like the round rectorate maybe does a review or something and it\u0027s there right it\u0027s it lives there forever you could advise it that one there\u0027s no extra need for less calls or is you review or anything like that what about expiration it lives forever we live forever in the repository right your version so the optics of a draft you just updated every six months or a brother or whatever because I mean that\u0027s part of the thing right because if the technology changes and the features of all you would be updating it anyways if you look at the optics of a draft they are different than the optics of an RC and RC carries a certain image specifically the ones that want to standards track that certain review steps have happens that it\u0027s a ITF product or perhaps not in the case of informational or independent I mean with the draft anybody can publish a trance and and the logistics of a draft are different the URLs changed with every ref eye I\u0027d be interesting to explore whether there\u0027s something that can be created that sits be you know it\u0027s not with the same ease of publication as a draft but it\u0027s lightweight compared to an RFC and I\u0027d like a you know a number LD 1 or ld50 gate button sorry took sorry to cut in but I just wanted to reply to a Laura\u0027s coming I\u0027m actually in favor of having something long-term as an implementer and having my own implementation of PGP I like to see something standardized so that I can refer to it and had her to it as and when it comes you know two modules and a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "lot of labs but I\u0027m speaking as co-author of well a formally worked for items to see and we were work together with Oleg and others on a document that explain exactly how do AI right hands to CR VI validated works now that is going through loss all at the moment but I think something like that this would fit better there because by definition that thing is going to be our date at the moment is published so I like this just ensure so T times here\u0027s to that back to Alworth comments I would like to be able to normatively references document and if I do so it\u0027s a draft I\u0027m starting miss Rev forever and we\u0027ve got number of documents sitting there for longer than a year so we need to figure out how to reference documents and let our own documents to progress referencing the stuff it could make comments please go to the mic thank you for your feedback Julie eglee um so because there\u0027s a bunch of present or former 80s in the line um I think part of what happens is we know how to keep working group documents alive forever generally that happens inadvertently but what we don\u0027t actually have a good way is to say that this working group document currently is a is the product of working group consensus without actually saying well it\u0027s been last called and it\u0027s actually headed off to the ISDN for processing so it could be that the only real requirement here is metadata that describe the current state of the document that does not yet exist um but that\u0027s really for the current iesg to decide not for me to speculate on so Orrin Kumar and we\u0027ll talk about this more later but the I\u0027ve heard that people both want something that\u0027s like an RFC because that has standing and wait but also not like an RFC because then it has to go through stuff which gives it standing and wait so kind of following on from what Joel said you could do this as just a working group document which you do working group last call hub every now and then and that\u0027s what you decide is the new standard one and then six months later you working group last call it again and probably some like header at the top being like the working group is keeping this document alive forever and it\u0027s actually the standard one but I mean that\u0027s kind of weird in clergy holding of Doge Telecom it seems to me that just saying succession of draft versions to present working group consensus is kind of a little bit weak because actually some specific process is needed to fix that a certain version "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "actually has for consensus and is not just the editor choose to take some current comments and that\u0027s it so kind of having a precise versioning of the official check points I think is is something that needs to be done and could help say Kay yu-er for some things and now then of course I have I really have the concern there are things that are actually fundamental and they stay the same for 20 years and there are things that are currently discussed and that are moving and kind of I have the feeling that going for a living document will kind of tend to expose exactly what is being discussed right now and the fundamental stable long-term things being not that well presented to especially especially the newcomers who really should should have the guidance for the long-term stable stuff first yeah thank you for your feedback so to make sure the room is in alignment we\u0027re attacking two problems at the same time here one is exploring ITF living documents as a concept and the other is the material itself routing security explained to newcomers so this is a bit more challenging than your average documents because usually you only do one of the two at the same time so the next step is our meeting tomorrow and then we\u0027ll report back to the mailing list on what the outcome is and regardless of whether ITF can facilitate a process specific for living documents I think we should start with a draft documenting how we think routing security works in 2018 final points about a year ago we started an effort to be able to reference non-adiabatic github it expired should we try to look in this context what could be done sorry can you repeat your sentence we start an effort how to reference the non-native documents in 80 address so for informational purposes might be much better platform than doing draft if you can email me a link I would be a publisher so alia Alia started it doesn\u0027t happen all right thank you for your time I think we\u0027re all done unless "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "there\u0027s any final comments or questions for previous presenters five four three two one by Cu in [Music] you "
  }
]