[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "is that a Picasso or a Maro behind you or NE it's a it's one of my children's artwork he was in high school he did it it's a copy of something that was in a magazine I don't know who the original the original artist but not the beny on the left right yeah yeah that's just that's just a it's because I'm re using I've reused the youngest child's bedroom as an office and I've not taken all of the artwork down off fls yeah including the Banksy and the lady Monroe thing so but I have my flag can you see it you have your audio do can you hear me now yes yes yes thank you sorry about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:17",
    "text": "oh I'm talking on mute that's not very helpful I was asking you Greg if you had the not the link to the notes page and then I was asking you if you were still there because you weren't moving and responding to me but that's because Link in the chat it's the same one that meet EO generated the same link thank you drew yep yep oh perfect that's what I was looking for um all right so um we didn't actually just uh I guess I'll just go forward um so this Greg and dur and I realiz I that we sort of dropped the ball and getting this organized uh so this will be a pretty straightforward meeting um the um agenda is at that link um and if does is there any bashing of the agenda no okay uh the first thing on the agenda is a quick AC activities update um we don't have any of the guides people here and we don't have Michelle here so we can skip the newcomers unless Jay or or Greg has something specific you want to report on okay regarding the newcomers or the new participants program regarding the new participants yes okay um I can say a few things about Outreach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "okay go ahead so we had uh an Outreach for open source Summit that Dave Taylor did talking about ITF tools so I think that was pretty good and I have updated that in our Outreach Wiki as well so the folks who are interested can check that out I got also a request to speak at AA which is the Asian Pacific internet governance thing I've been doing that in couple of times usually they have folks from I can and uh and apne and other folks as well so it's good to get ITF represented so they have asked me this is going to be in July uh and this like some folks go and attend in person I'm going to be remote uh so just wanted to keep people updated that that's the two updates related to outreach and if there is anything specific with respect to Vancouver that's happening that folks are aware and something that we need to discuss we can talk about it I'm not aware of anything um I can follow up on that real quickly dreo there was I just spoke uh earlier today to someone who was at the igf um session uh in Kyoto uh and they're possibly interested in um getting they're from a the distributed web dweb Community uh and they're possibly interested in getting some uh activities together to uh around ITF 1220 but there's nothing determined or settled there yet but um I think it's just a point that um the work that you're doing in terms of coordinating Outreach at different uh activities by the IAB and other folks um actually Garners some results so that's great um do you know what kind of T activity they would be planning no they they were just trying to figure out um how do they get involved in in the ITF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "they had no experience with the ITF before so just talked them through what a usual week looks like ITF media okay so they reached out to you by email or something yes yeah uh they connected through Mark Nyan I think the only um question I have DER does it make sense to occasionally just I know you're updating the wiki but is it possible to just send really quick notes to the email list this is oh this happens but more detailed go there um I think that would really help people understand what we're doing or what you doing I think that's a good idea like we are not using our mailing list enough so I think yeah I can do that yeah um Greg did you have anything to say about the llcc stuff I remember at one point we talked about it um I wasn't sure if it was supposed to be part of these updates or not uh no just a pitch for we have the LCC comm's uh monthly update meeting um that is modeled on the tools team meeting and very much um operationally focused complimenting EOD dur uh and you will see announcements about that on the ITF announce list and admin discuss the one for May should be scheduled in the next 24 hours or so usually two weeks so I think it's the end of me okay just to be explicit about it they're totally open to anybody who wants to come so they're they're just like the tools team you just show up and you don't need to be a communicator just a Community member um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "the next thing on the update list is the uh working group chairs Forum there's generally not much update on that but the one thing I did want to mention is um uh Braun coming out as the last meeting offered to do a talk on his personal experiences with managing a working group at the next working group chairs Forum so that is one potential um a tutorial topic that we have and he was an active participant in the uh train sessions that were done a couple years ago so I think he's very interested in providing leadership to that so sorry sorry I'm just trying to take notes this bron bron Gan you said yeah okay thanks I just said Bron I wouldn't have to butcher his last name so um the uh any other updates that people want to provide you don't have any updates on on the on the guides program right no okay um I'm assuming at some point soon we will start our planning sessions for the new new participants um there's usually two or three and Michelle puts together a planning document um and so that would be be coming up at some point I haven't checked with Michelle to see when those are starting yet so I I did have a question about what the uh the additional sort of disclaimer for the the newcomer participation uh what what the process was like I understood there was some incident that sort of triggered doing this but um I felt that they might be very legally formed that might actually be an incentive for people not to become a mentor because they were like well this is this is a legal responsibility now I I think that's understood um Paul and uh they're going to be Rewritten I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "think that was just you know that just been through a couple of rounds and needed some more feedback on it so um they'll be made more um more conversational less legal easy okay awesome thanks all right anything else on updates uh no the next topic then is uh iatf surveys and it to Greg and orj yeah I'll kick it off and um invite Jay of course to jump in whenever um uh he'd like I know he's just returned from travel so um I'm glad to see you here uh the idea behind this item was just to give a quick update like a review of of the various survey activities that we have going on um because I think there are a lot happening and um people sometimes uh may lose track of them but um they're quite uh interesting and that I think that they um provide data beh they help provide data for decisions and taking action um in a way that wasn't maybe previously available so um of course the first one there is um the talk about is the community survey um the ITF Community survey so this is a um uh all of ITF community so basically anybody subscribed to an ITF mailing list and I'm not going to dig into it um uh too deeply because uh Jay is here and um uh yeah knows knows this inside and out way better than I do um I'm just GNA post a link into the notes and maybe into the chat too there's a Blog there's a blog post um that you can read uh that links to a much longer report um you know just talking about I'm going to read the top level but only as a way to peek your interest to go read more um the the key findings uh that were pulled"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "out of this is uh this survey is that the ITF is good at delivering its Mission but could be better um it's um the ITF is considered very important organization that outperforms its peers in all respects so this is um uh I think uh may be surprising to folks that this is actually way the it perceived but um it's good to actually keep in mind I think um participation is driven by personal interest ource specific technology um and that is actually nice or interesting because it kind of aligns with the ideal model of how the ITF is supposed to work um uh there's still a problem with gender diversity um but there are some signs of improvement again we have now data to sort of underpin that that statement I invite you to go encourage you to go look at it um participation is dominated um by people from just two regions um yeah again probably not surprising to people who who track this stuff um most interesting for this group is probably there is um related to um participation in in the community um there are three things three things to say about that um there is a problem with with behavior um but it's hard to pin down again uh encourage you to go read the blog post and the full report for more info um new participants actually need to learn Lear a lot to be effective um no surprise to the people here um but it's still an issue so uh it just means that um you can uh be assured that the work that uh we're looking at here uh in EOD is actually relevant and and important um there's a lot to unpick about that particular statement um again the survey uh provides more detail about that and my favorite is the last one that um Jay put down in the blog post which is um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "that email is still universally preferred uh and uh I think I think Jay correct me if I'm wrong that's true there's a preference for email even among people who are younger that participate in the ITF um which seems surprising that not everything is on Tik Tok and GitHub but um it it does seem like email uh working through email is still preferred so that's my um very um um uh short and doesn't do it justice summary of the blog post go read go read that go read the final report too and um I'll stop there in case Jay wants to add anything in particular I'll just add something on the last point the email point that um what I think is quite clear from the data is that younger people are happy with all sorts of different ways of communicating they use different methods for different purposes for different reasons and generally for speaking to you know the adult population they're very happy to use email because they know that's the only way that we can communicate so um there's no no concern there you know um they also like instant messaging they also like slack they you know they also like um GitHub issue trackers and all those kind of things that they to simply just use the tool as necessary rather than sort of have a preference one way or the other good can I ask a follow-up question on that so you asked about preferences um I'm curious if you asked about in any way if you got it like the functionality I mean because to me that how I wish to communicate with people is different than the I need to catch up on a topic where do I go to get all of the relevant conversation on that topic and that's what kind of you know when you said I know you're kidding about Tik Tok but I was like oh my God can you imagine trying to you know decode comments on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Tik Tok or so that that's the thing that I was curious about is that there's different types of tasks and what type of communication is best for a task yeah no so we didn't go into that I mean we've started asking about issue trackers and what people think of issue trackers and they're rising in um people usage but no we haven't I I do think that um uh well one of the things as an aside that um Greg and I working on is trying is a a draft of a how to be effective in the ITF um and that is trying to explain to people that there is a a way of using email that is particularly effective which is threading and you know um uh uh bottom posting inside you know threaded inside the email and that this is not a religion this is not something called netiquette This is trying to achieve a very specific outcome of readability and the ability to track a specific issue um and so I think I I can see that um yes I I I think there is a a bro this is actually only a proxy for something a bit different but quite how we go about asking what you're suggesting I don't know but I it is worthwhile considering though definitely yeah no that that was the the spefic specific issue I was currently thinking of a set of new Authors who never gone through the iesg process you know the basic thing of you need to reply all and make sure all of the relevant mailing lists or copied because I couldn't tell whether he was answering just um you know just to the the indiv I couldn't tell whether he was responding to comments or not because I wasn't sure he was replying all it never never occurred to me that that was something you know like how do you figure out whether this conversation is closed or not when it's on email ma anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "yeah um any other questions on yeah I just wanted to if there aren't any other questions on the community survey again go read the blog post go read the final report worth your investment of time I think if you looking understand the space um the other thing I wanted to mention um explicitly here is the uh new experimental survey uh no it's it's a survey but it's an experiment because we've never done it before for um where we're trying to um well we are surveying people who uh um didn't return for the following ITF meeting so we're asking people who uh attended ITF 118 but did not participate in 119 either remotely or in person um there are reasons for not continuing to participate in at ITF meetings um and the idea here is that uh if there are particular barriers or particular parts of their experience about um being an at an ITF meeting um that we can address uh to encourage continued participation uh this will help us understand that um uh I I I think we need to look at this as an experiment uh because for for a number of reasons uh the first is we're uh really just learning um exactly how to do this process so um it it uh the first lift of this was a little was a little bit heavier than I think we thought um but like with everything else once we uh have a pattern established then we can work to improve it and make it easier and simpler um and of course the other obvious reason um that this is uh most likely uh very or is very experimental is that Brisbane 118 was a star location so outside the usual pattern of meaning locations and um that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "uh that probably affected the fact that people who went to 118 uh didn't then end up going to 119 so um anyway so that's I think it's close to being completed or closed anyway and then we'll have to do some analysis about the results but I just want to let folks know that um that is uh in progress uh Greg one clarifying question uh you send this uh only to folks who did not even registered remote this time so we are specifically targeting folks who dropped out of the attending ITF at all and what was the number just so that we a rough idea of how many people that you kind of asked this question just to we get a rough figure oh I have forgotten that number Jay probably it was several hundred um okay that's think I think it might have been 800 actually um but the um there are some real audities and the answers and stuff that's coming back that makes me think that there may have been a problem with the data or something um near people uh writing to me saying yes I did come um or or other things and I think this is because we don't because people use different email addresses at different times so you know getting the same person is an issue and I think that perhaps some of the people that um sign up to uh remote and perhaps a fee waiver are not real people they're something else so when you contact them it triggers an avalanche of weird emails to you as well so um I so I'm trying to understand this you know a little bit as well um it's it's been an unusual um survey this one uh but you plan to continue to do this for coule of more cycles and maybe then announce some results once we well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "we we we we it is an experiment so we do plan to consider again but I'm Greg and I haven't spoken about this but I'm coming personally to I want to have a conversation with with Greg and Michelle who who's part of this as to whether or not we're a little bit premature and we ought to wait for people not to have come for a year before we go and ask them um why haven't you been back for a year um to understand that that a bit better because there are people who only come to certain regions um uh you know where the cost of travel is certain something or or it's perhaps just too soon to get an answer from them so that that's I'm just thinking that through basically but we we need to have those conversations um uh as we're on surveys can I just provide some other updates on surveys so this year we are developing a survey for the iesg about working group um uh chairs and stuff following up from the discussion at working group chairs Forum I haven't done um anything on that yet um there is a possibility the isg is going to do some form of survey to help them understand um about the number of uh iatf participants that will be um coming to a China meeting um so they're looking at that and uh it's about three years since we last did a survey of ID authors to understand the tools that authors use and all those kind of things so considering doing one of those again this year so um uh I don't want to make the Year too heavy you know um uh survey wise because people don't have a certain tolerance for it unless we offer you know like free cookies or something like that um but we're going to aim for um uh so we've got a you know some in the pl plan as well later this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:11",
    "text": "year okay anything else on Surface um all right so the next subject is um tutorials at the iatf I have put a link in the notes let me stick it in the meeting chat um see if I got the right one yeah this is just um internal notes for me at this stage uh the question has been uh around the edges about is there a way to start or restart some of the technical tutorial type topics that we had done and um and it's sort of a fuzzy line between technical topics and others and so this is this document is just me organizing my thoughts the the the tiny proposal is down at the bottom but I started with um because the expectation is you would develop something like this um and then possibly send it to the isg so I wanted some of the relevant context at the beginning um which includes defining the EOD audiences which we defined a few years back and I don't think that's changed um and uh most of the work on the potential and new iatf participant uh tutorial type material comes through the newcomer activities and then the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "stuff for the IHF leadership comes through the LLC iasg and some of the training that they're doing so I was looking at what kind of training are we providing to um current ietf participants and obviously somebody can be in multiple uh categories here it's not like you fit into one slot and not the other but it's just a way to organize your thoughts around what you're trying to do um and so I went down and and talked look sort of organized in my head the types of tutorials that we've had um and then the question that I wanted to explore first with you all and then potentially The Next Step would be um to get some feedback from maybe working grip chairs um is um what uh you know what types of tutorials might be interested in trying to facilitate um and I kind of narrowed this down to like community-driven you know technical and tools tutorials so as opposed to saying what um what I'm looking to do is to create the opportunity for uh folks to come in and give tutorials that might be of interest um in general but without us doing I don't want to say doing all the work but um as when Greg and der and I were discussing this previously there was a lot of discussion around U you know wasn't it a lot of work to Corral all of these tutorials and and there's a part of me that's like well if I don't know if we want to rebuild that infrastructure um maybe it's it's more like if there's people that are interested in doing these things we give them a framework that they can then step up and volunteer if they want to and then just try it for a year or two and see if people actually make use of it and if not um then uh we're not trying to push a ball up a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "hill kind of thing um so I I think there will still be there's a lot of uh topics that are still driven um you know from the leadership or you know uh from the um you like one example that comes to mind I know Jay we've talked about it before is the uh IPR type training lawyer type training for the working group chair so that's not the kind of thing I'm talking about here I'm talking about more like um you know we have we have wikis to describe uh you know how to use data tracker for various things is there a data tracker tutorial that might make sense that might be an overlap between current ietf participants and newcomers so that's one possibility is there a new working group that's developing something that's not that familiar to the iatf that's another type of tech tutorial that might be useful um or you know is the i e doing something that they would really like the ietf to know more about um so this is just a very this is like the beginnings of a draft framework uh down at the bottom it says proposal proposal sounds like I'm uh heavily invested in this which I'm not I just I'm curious about if there's ways we can do something like this so the idea is you know community-driven technical tutorials to be as lightweight as possible on ietf resources including leadership and a process that allows people to provide to volunteer to provide these tutorials and then you know sort of a clear list of steps that they would need to follow in order to offer one the ITF and so you know one example of how you might do this would be with some sort of a request form not a lot different than like the bof request form now but you know something like PC's for the tutorial title abstract ined areas audiences length the time and space"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "required and then you know EOD dur LLC iesg provides you know a POC facil facilitating the tutorial so that's somebody who's kind of responsible for it from the organization side um in this case it wouldn't need to be somebody from the isg you know probably be somebody from EOD or somebody uh you know like in the case of a working group maybe the working group chair might be the PO for facilitating the tutorial in a couple you know key drivers of the technology might be the people developing the tutorial um and you know physical or virtual space um you know a Sunday time slot or another time slot or a um you know an interim meeting type of opportunity um I didn't delve the minute I started thinking about you know like a virtual meeting well then it's the question of well how does it get on the calendar do we want on the calendar not and I was like oh that just sent me down into a deep Rat Hole I didn't really want to go into um maybe the iatf would also provide U you know some sort of meeting technology like meet EO own WebEx um and then the process for the tutorials is the PCS would submit the form the eor would provide a quick review and assign a facilitator uh the PC's would develop the tutorial had a question on do we need a review process or not maybe not we you know when we uh used to do technical tutorials at the ITF that you we we did have a review process sometimes was more effective than not um and then the you know EOD dur Secretariat coordinate on the resourcing required to do it so um at one point I don't know several months ago I thought you know well it makes sense you know we've come to the pandemic maybe we do want to start doing tutorials I had a couple couple people ask for various things um but there never seemed to be the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "energy behind it um to do it and and and then I thought so I thought it was sort of a no-brainer it just was going to require energy and then I was talking to some people and they were like well no I don't think the leadership wants to do this um and so I think we need to clarify our thoughts and then make sure that the leadership and the LLC or whoever needs to provide whatever resources are to do it are on board um so how do we effectively start the conversation um I know that several times I've asked in front of working group chairs we want to do T you know we want to do tutorials again and people like oh yes we need to do all of these tutorials um it always seems like people say we need it but nobody steps forward to do it so um that's what this note is about and trying to get to a point of we of deciding whether we want to do this or not and how we're going to do it um immediate ones like um it seems kind of silly but I know it um to some extent silly I guess silly is not the right one but um you know Meo is a really good example there's a lot of documentation there on Meo um but we still struggle to use it um and the barrier is a little bit higher for new participants than than others um the other thing was is we had started down the path Maria was doing a lot of the work on this of doing like here's the six steps you need to do to do this specific task in data tracker um and so um I would really love sort of some discussion or feedback before we go any further on this so it looks like we have people in the queue so that's a start go ahead Jay um so the um without necessarily commenting without commenting on whether it's a good idea or not because I I generally don't know um you asked about resources and I'd say the one most difficult resource here is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "time because the meeting agenda is already um stuff to the gills and we have conflicts and difficultly DEC conflicting that we have concerns about side meetings and other things so just finding the time when these things might take place um uh is the problem so I would suggest that if that something that perhaps needs some sort of plan associated with it and I I don't know I'm sorry to just throw something out without having an answer but I think that's um probably the just one of the most immediate concerns I can see no that's a a uh definitely a concern um and and that's what made me led me to think well we're doing lots of virtual interims now maybe we could do them as interims and then it sortly sent me down a different Rat Hole so um but anyway Maria yeah so I think for me the question is like why you want to do it like what's what's the thing you want to achieve with it because the way I understood tutorials as they used to be on the Sunday was kind of and maybe it didn't fulfill this goal always but I think the thing behind was this is like interesting stuff you might need want to know in order to be well prepared for the ietf week um and in that sense we had like these tutorials about uh area overviews I think those are were usually well received um and there it was really bad benefit to have it like just like on Sunday when the week started and it was also benefit to have it in person so people can actually also ask questions if they have something like that the other kind of tutorials that would go in the same category is maybe giving an overview about technology that is in a certain stage of development so something that is like it's not like the brand new working group which has like the first meeting because that's usually where you don't know what the working group is doing but it has something where like people you can you can people you can still catch up people on like What's Done in the working group to to an extent that they can could actually go to the working group understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "what's going on which is also like sometimes working groups that exist for a long time they are so much into the weeds that it doesn't make sense anymore kind of so you know that would be kind of the useful kind of tutorials to do if the if the idea is to like provide useful information people who want to participate in meeting and and are already there in person um the other thing that could be a goal is just like kind of promoting our technology saying you know and this is more useful for technology that's already kind of mostly done saying this is like really nice piece of technology that you should understand um this is maybe a little bit also like how I I would understand the technology deep Dives and like my original understanding of the technology deep deep dive was also that we focus on technology which is not necessary ITF technology but like other technology the ITF Community would be interested in and then also invite external experts um you know if that is kind of the goal just promoting our technology or providing like information about our technology in a different way that is more accessible then maybe we should think about producing some kind of expert videos rather than just doing a not well prepared tutorial right and like actually spending money on it and having somebody who um knows how to put a video together and have some nice animations or whatever um yeah so I guess I saw the tutorials is fitting into a few categories I think your your first one like the area overviews for example is one that I think is is is really interesting because people did find them to be very useful we got good feedback on them it was really really hard to get people to do them and they become stale really quickly so if you had an area director who had a couple people who were excited about it then you could get them done so but that's also I don't think like for those torious which gets stay very quickly it's not like a big value to Ian like everything might be online on YouTube somewhere but it's not like important to have them as an online resource it's much more important to have them in person people can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "communicate and I think if you do them on a I mean I know it's it's hard to get people um I'm still happy to do one on transport again but if you get if you get them done in a more regular basis then it's actually not that much work work to update them so if you have like a longterm schedule maybe that works better yeah I did the internet area a couple times and once it's done it's just you know it's it's just like if you didn't do it for five years then you have to stud over this yeah I I think the um uh I think the objective was information that helps participants you know participate in the ITF and understand the technology of the ITF so I think it it's twofold um but I don't know what the best I have to admit that y so I mean if the focus is on partici on people who are act actively supposed to participate in the ITF meeting I think it is actually valuable to have something in person where you can interact and ask questions and these kind of things right um I I know like we did like when the RFC format was changing like the XML uh tutorial and the markdown tutorials were both very well received uh the technical tutorials for example um Stuart chesher did one on service discovery that was really good it unfortunately came right at the point that we were getting right before the pandemic and he was planning on evolving it and doing a second version of it um so this is you know service Discovery is something that you know people developing protocols in the iatf need to better understand and I think he did a really nice job of that um yeah I think we're coming at a really important Point here I think if we do it we should actually try to to um plan a little bit more long term so it's not like we asking people just like two weeks before meeting can you do a tutorial but so they actually know you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "know you do one here and then you do like an update one year later and you can already plan for it and you already have it set yeah well that's part of part of why I was looking at some sort of a process or a framework to do this because then um it would be more you know it it it would be better understood what the expectations were and when you could expect it Greg I see your comment on the area meetings they all do have area meetings they do not provide an overview of the area uh they um yeah sorry I didn't mean to jump the queue I just I just no no no I just oh sorry yeah um so um anyway go on we'll just move on but Mary you're bringing up a bunch of good points and it's part of the reason why I'm hesitant to I'm not sure where to go with this I just would like to have a conversation about is there a way to I think there's an unmet need in the iatf to provide more overview types of information and I don't so I don't know the best way to do that anymore no and like as a high level I think like I think the the Sunday tutorials has been have been useful and I I I would support doing it again but like as you're trying to do right now I think we need to organize a little bit more process around it right um Deb so so I do so if originally I was going to talk about tools but let me start with the area overviews first if that was well received then Revitalize that and do it again because it's true that once you have the briefing written it you just do it again and again and again and maybe you update it right I mean they're only three times a year and you do them in person you might record them and put them online to give somebody ability to see them in between but but having those done in person gives"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "there's multiple advantages to that right it gives somebody somebody to ask right because they know what somebody looks like and they can go ask them during the meeting um heck I'd go to that um what the heck does routing do anyway other than you know anyway um but what I what I jumped in the Q for is when you look at the me EO documentation there's videos there's a little bit of written documentation the videos are pretty awesome right and you can just put them up and leave them up you need to do the same thing for the data tracker I have discovered I had no idea the data tracker is like a wealth of information and tons of ability to do all kinds of things um is it written down anywhere to teach anybody how to use the data tracker I don't know I just sort of I mean you know Roman pointed me at it and said look at this and I'm just like wow um but you could do that wants me EO style right with a video to show you how to use the data tracker and then you update it when it when it moves but put it online and leave it online and point the people to it anyway that's what I yeah um I I think also like I think if you're deeply invest if you're deeply embedded in using something then you think it's obvious to everybody um and then and then you realize oh it's it's really not no I say how do you register for mailman 3 what's the username where's the wiki because the working group chair Wiki is not where the rest of the wiks are um there there's all kinds of stuff that's not at all obvious unless you've been doing it for a hundred years um J yeah hi uh just a couple of points the first was like in the recent time there was rasar that did a tutorial so we have like in the recent past like two itfs back where they had a pretty"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "good long tutorial on the new again a new research group wanting to do that so I think we have sort of like but it was again ad hoc they just talked to the irf chair ITF chair approved and in fact Greg and I we were talking that oh why didn't we include this in our uh like you know topics of interest for newcommerce for instance since it was more of a tutorial so in general I think like having sort of a framework for folks to suggest that we want to do tutorial at least people don't even know like as a new working group why would anybody even think that this is something that ITF does whereas if you look at other conferences I think tutorials are sort of a part of a track of course we don't want to go all the way but at least one session in an ITF at a particular time could be dedicated on a Sunday uh after the ipg whatever like we have Sunday is getting overloaded we all know but somehow if he can still figure out a small slot lot that this is a tutorial and then let people suggest as Karen I think it's worth trying right I I think um so you just mentioned uh just to respond you said Greg was saying that you should have highlighted it in the overview blog post um I think that I knew they were having it but I knew they had it after the fact and it would it would be really nice if we could have done a little bit more education oriented type you know these are here's some of the other tutorials that are happening at the iatf I don't think it necessarily has to be a Sunday tutorial in the traditional format but there's a part of me that says we have to start somewhere and we tend to overanalyze things until and my thinking was I think doing it in person at the ITF meeting might be the most easy like you know it gives you a Target it gives you a structure people are there and people find that like you know they will get a better audience than like you know for instance our earlier online tutorials because of time zones because of this sometimes have not been even on Sunday we have to try and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "see whether we get because we are competing with so many other things now hackaton for instance which was uh not the case earlier so let's see how that happens but I still feel especially if you target towards uh newcomers people who might not be actually going uh to hackathon for instance and pick a topic that might be of interest to those people who might even show up like you know who are everybody shows up for for instance uh our social so just we pick a slot before the social or this thing that more people can come and attend something that we can of course talk later but one more thing that I was thinking was you said that you don't want to talk about uh IPR and other process thing within this uh thing I want you to understand the reason why don't want to keep the process tutorial that's not really what I meant um uh there are tutorials that are driven by leadership requirements or LLC or whatever and so in my mind okay that one is that so I wouldn't ask for the a community person to volunteer to give a tutorial on IPR I want I would want it to come through the lawyer and the LLC and the leadership um so that is separate but at the same time like if if talking to a new newcomers and other people if you realize that there are a specific uh tutorial that might be most useful for instance like new people get confused with how our consensus process work and we have had pretty good tutorial by Pete on talking about consensus so those things I think we could still keep it in scope and see like some of the things we might already have the material as in like what I mean is that we don't have to do a lot of work we could just start with some some of our best hits from the past which are still relevant and see whether we we see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "value in the current structure before we invest too much time and energy in like you know making something big we can try a low hunging fruit see how it is received and then take the next step I I mean from a loow hanging fruit P perspective I think the tutorial to the tutorial that Spencer and and alah did a number of years ago on bringing new work to the iatf yes I mean that's one that I would love to see revised and and presented again because we keep pointing to it in the new participants activity stuff yeah it could be updated with side meeting and things that have changed a little bit and yeah so I think yeah that could be a pretty good topic as well and final Point uh in terms of like I think area review area overviews one more thing which I think we could try is problem with area reviews is mostly it's expected they will be done by ads Sunday ad time uh they they have historically not been done by ads is no oh the the ads have generally like when I did it for inter I was not the ad um so it's it's usually a couple senior level people in the area but it doesn't have to be an ad oh yeah that makes sense another thing which I was thinking in parallel would be uh maybe asking the reviewers from like sec segd to Come and Talk which could be very useful on like you know how do they review and what is their thought process these are the pitfalls uh that other people who are writing documents should think about I think this material already exists in vik for instance so it doesn't have to be like a huge big presentation it could be those Wiki points and discussion and in our usually inperson tutorial I think that discussion is what's been the fun part so we can in fact make that a a topic and asking some key security director review routing I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Transport Security those could be the key ones that's just ideas that I was thinking in this conversation and that's my last comment yeah there was I don't know if it was ever done or not I know there was discussion on you know a tutorial on security considerations how to write them and how are they received um you know a lot of this is documented but sometimes just a discussion about it anyway I think the the point of this and and we could add a section at the bottom of examples of possible tutorials that we could do in the future that's great um part of what I was looking at was a framework for how we restart it that doesn't involve um that that everybody buys into like okay we're because we're not talking about tutorials that we're going to ask the LLC to pay for and develop like they did with the working group chair training so you know what what are the kinds of things that the community is willing to step up and provide um and different people are passionate about different topics and some of them will be passionate about you know tools and some of them will be passionate about you know their work anyway I'll stop Deb so so remember that people learn in different ways too right so if you just because it's written down doesn't mean that people are going to read it right so sometimes people would prefer to hear it spoken to them and sometimes they would prefer to read it and sometimes they would prefer I mean everybody would prefer to actually do it right but uh well that's my opinion um so just because it's written down someplace doesn't mean it can't be presented um as it and and then recorded as a video and that gives you two options for how you want to adjust that information by reading it in a paper or or watching a video so I do think that's important just because it's written down someplace doesn't mean that you shouldn't do it all right go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "Greg yeah I'm just curious I may have missed it but what is your next step here on this Karen uh my next step was to get feedback from you all uh the step after that sorry I guess that's obvious isn't it sorry um well I I guess after that it was to refine this and see if it's if it's clear and then I don't know is it is it an is it an iesg discussion topic or do they have plenty of other things and this would be like down in the noise well I I would say uh unsolicitedly and you know coming back to his point it seems to me that if you're thinking about doing something during a meeting week that it comes down to time and that um the isg controls the agenda for meeting week so you'd need to talk to them or some subset right so I'm guessing like step one do we is this a conversation we want to take further I'm sensing that the answer here is yes so then step two is does the concept of a a a process you know a basic framework of people volunteer and we facilitate them Mak sense and and then step three is is this clear enough that I can go to the iesg and say we're interested in doing this what do you think and I don't think it's clear enough yet I think it's sort of ramblings in my head but um but but I also would would the couple other times I've I've tried to start this conversation we've been I was like well we could do this and they like oh those are the old sunday tutorials we need to do you know virtual instead and we need to do videos"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "and you know well it could actually be a you know a user-driven uh training tool and I'm like we got to start somewhere and so I'm trying to figure out what is the minimum starting point that we can say it makes sense to move forward or not yeah I think actually the this I I think the starting point is the old stud they old where we left like I think we should revive the Sunday tutorials uh and I didn't read the document or like I didn't think about all the points in the document um carefully but I have the feeling you're trying to over engineer this a little bit I think we should as a group try to like brainstorm about topics that are interesting as we did just now like I think a lot of topics came up in this discussion and then make a plan for the next whatever three to six meetings and try to find speakers for it um and on the and then just run them as they were and then try to improve step by step and like get feedback from people what they liked what they didn't like um uh of course we can record them we can put them online and see if you watch them or not and find them useful and then we can like just iterate from there um also just on the isg point like um because we did discuss this for the last meeting or me two weeks ago at least we talked briefly about the transport um tutorial and I brought this up with the isg at that point and there was a bit of discussion about time pressure and like yeah Sunday is already overloaded or whatever but I believe I mean maybe you just have to do it again but I believe you know people were open to like you know just try it again and see if it's useful okay honestly I think you just pick two topics pick the area reviews because that was well received the last time pick something that's technology related bringing new work to the ITF track or something right just pick two things and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "and and do it stop thinking about it and just do it okay yeah I mean I some from my experience as a presenter I think it would actually be useful to like do a little bit more longterm planning because as I said like I did the transport overview once and I could have easily done it a second time but like doing it right now it's a lot of more effort because I haven't done it for like five or six years or whatever so you know if I would have known you know you have to do it every five meetings or whatever uh it would be much easier for me actually or like you can even try to like have some kind of Handover saying like you do it twice and then the second time you pick a new core so you always switch one person so you have some kind of continuity or whatever I don't know but like a little bit of long-term planning would and like yeah would probably help okay um so I will um it's so 12:56 and we're going to need to wrap um the link is in the notes if you have any further feedback that's great if you want to drop some of the suggestions for uh future tutorials in the um uh notes that's fine uh and um that's right Vancouver um and we can continue this conversation over email the last agenda topic was basically uh suggested topics for f for further for further EOD dur conversation uh we'd had a few of them that came out of our side meeting at the last ietf um and if there's uh any additional ones um but we have three minutes now so I think if you if you look at the note link for the tutorial document you can add suggestions at the bottom of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "that and if you look at the link for the minutes you can add suggestions for future future EOD topics like discussion topics um there um anything else is that enough of a Way Forward Greg I think so um I'll just uh I know we have to wrap up in about a minute or so but just a plug that I think we're still planning to do a um Friday morning side meeting following our usual pattern for EOD at uh during ITF 120 so if folks are either in Vancouver or able to make it to that time zone um you can pencil that in um yeah okay anything else thank you everybody have a good day thanks everybody by"
  }
]
