[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "hello hello hello hello hello all okay it is eight o'clock in five minutes it's just outside so sorry for that say again i was saying i'm sorry i was delayed on my trip back home i wanted to take this call from home and uh well it's been longer than i thought yes and you're in the car um but pascal uh first off welcome everybody um i'm amazed at how easy it was to set up a couple of interim meetings um of course uh really pascal i think that the session is exactly as you described it to the mailing list which was to canvas the audience to understand canvas the working group to understand what the opens are or what issues are at hand with this draft because it's fairly mature and we had promised at the last ietf to have a number of these sessions in an attempt to vet uh some of the issues before the session um that's coming up in philadelphia and um it's too bad we won't see you in person pascal this is it'll be my first work-related trip in person since covet so i was i'm very much looking forward to it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "um and hope i will see some others of you there um uh but i think i will uh hand over to you pascal um to see you know to kind of hear what your um assessment is and uh and then ask others who have come to join the meeting as well another agenda item is to help karina with maybe some advice at the end of the call about some of the translation issues between xml and rfc uh format but we'll we'll get there eventually could you want to say something to that effect karina that would be great i just posted my problem uh on the raw mailing list so you can see what i have in the xml and what is the um converter saying to me so i have no clue where my problem is at the moment okay thank you for your help in advance okay pascal would you like to lead off can you hear me yes your little face for the next two three minutes i might be interrupted because i'm in the dark zone and then i will be home so if you wouldn't mind stop just for the next two minutes right on cue pascal you kind of dropped out yeah we can't really hear you can anyone else hear pascal is it just me i i kind of hate him either this is cuddled but i think he he just said that his community will be home in a couple"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "yeah so i guess if we can discuss any other thing before or that will be helpful i guess are there um are there others who want to cue up some discussion topics um so that by the time pascal gets home we um [Music] we will have some uh items enumerated oh hi carlos hi if you allow me uh just one minor thing um if you remember in the last meeting i presented something about the multi-domain raw so [Music] i just wanted to to kind of pull the working loop for the people here if there is anybody interested in pursuing that topic to contact me via the many lesser offline because i i would like to continue on that that line of work but of course only if if people are willing to to contribute and they think that it's interesting and stuff you remind me the the name of the draft again it was small time it was draft let me quickly you don't have to type the exact thing just the title was the bernardo's multi-domain oem or something multi-domain yeah okay the multi-domain draft okay so you're soliciting uh participation there and uh karina soliciting help when we await pascal to arrive at home and have connectivity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "i see janos here i know that uh you were someone who had um oh pascal is back uh but i know yana shu had had some thoughts as well about the draft so or one if you had some gaps or issues you want to queue up for when pascal returns for those of you who um might care oh i guess the tool i'm i am taking notes not a lot happening just yet until we have our main author back is there anyone else on the participant list who you would like to my phone is not the best tool so i will i will join you again from the pc but i will be listening in the meantime but okay i'm sorry okay no worries we are um we're just awaiting you know we're just canvassing folks who have taken the time to attend um uh to see if they have any issues that they would like to raise to the top of the list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:10",
    "text": "so if no one volunteers a topic then my main topic is basically um the content of this document and the side question do we cover the raw architecture in general or just more specifically the psc so what do we expect from raw and were you um i know that in your email that you posted you had wondered whether there were more issues like oam and lower layer information or you know kind of specifying what at what layer you know better specificity about which layer raw operates at um but you know i think there's a little bit of a guessing game going on because we don't have lou in this call um but if those of you if anybody on the call um [Music] uh you know has a has some opinions about um you know past conversations about it uh or about the document itself uh please just jump in pascal what are your thoughts i mean so what motivates you to ask that question so we you know what's the expectation from raw my pc is coming up but basically my motivation is really loose so if lu is not there you know look"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "candidated to provide new sections in the architecture and my understanding is it was supposed to cover the topics that i was talking about in this email but okay so it was it was a case in game after that yes i would say so i think unfortunately that um both lou and rick are on vacation i did uh send out some email to both of them uh yesterday saying if you're not going to attend are you do you have some thoughts to share for the conversation but i think they are happily on vacation and not reading their email which is what everyone should be doing i suppose but um when they're on vacation but it leaves this um this meeting um a little hollow to say the least um the the other point is that we did we do have this other interim meeting that we scheduled in two weeks and maybe that's our kind of final call which is um you know to have more runway for the topics um that were suggested as changes and if you know we just need to put a time on receiving that material and um and move and you know move the document along otherwise so i would say thank you for your patience pascal because i know it's been a while since uh we first began these conversations probably since the beginning of the year anyone else have some thoughts they want to add either procedural or content yeah this is carlos again i'm not sure exactly what uh lou had in mind about the comments but from my side i think that the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "is quite okay but i i will appreciate maybe a bit but that's a personal opinion a bit more details on examples maybe maybe maybe having an appendix or something like that and annex with some uh examples of how the architecture could look like uh and also the role of the psc and the difference between the pse one is distributed pse one is a kind of more centralized one these kind of things like clarifying uh discussion at least for me will be helpful then i don't know what to keep in the document but at least maybe starting with an annex or something just to provide additional details would be good for me but it isn't really the architecture i mean carlos i'm confused here trying to understand what you want but it looks like a an applicability statement or something that you're after and i'm just concerned that if we provide such a thing people might in this document i mean i understand that row could provide it and that would be neat actually but in this document i'm a bit concerned because um it might lead people to view the architecture as constrained to the use case we provide and and if we want to keep you know people's mind wide open to what you could do with this then providing example might actually constrain that thinking so it's a double-edged sword yes people might understand better but at the same time they might limit their the the understanding of the scope of the architecture to something that that's just but now producing the work that you're talking about makes a lot of sense to me i just i'm just not 100 sure i belong to the architecture documents specifically okay i'm i'm that that would be fine with me of course maybe having that discussion may help us uh like uh identifying if something is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "missing in architecture document and that doesn't necessarily mean that that discussion belongs to that document i agree with that as well i see that yes that makes a lot of sense the way we define this is we said the architecture is is kind of something we propose at the start and that gives us kind of the scope of our activity and the framework is published at the end and provides the how to to achieve the architecture at least in the domains that we'll support so it might be that we would package what you're talking about in the framework and saying you know if you want to do this use case use the framework this way it could be um at the level of the architecture it might be that it's too early and too vague to to really apply it square and fair and square when you do it with the framework you know it's use this rfc this way this rfc this way and package them this way and and then you get the result a at the level of the architecture it seems much harder so i'm just trying you're thinking out loud here but when we've done the work we'll be a lot more specific on how you can achieve a particular scenario makes sense makes no sense i wonder if we um start to ask what are those scenarios um and begin to populate the framework dock that would be great and actually there is a section where we say we have two major use cases one of them has a mesh that's where we have the multi-harp and the little overlay between source and destination where we want determinism and the other use case is when we just focus on the access like you've got this phone which has 5g wi-fi multiple interfaces and you want to know if you should use one of the interfaces a collection of a sub collection of the interface etc to to achieve you know the level of reliability that you want and so do we have more scenarios i mean all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "that's actually great it's not really the architecture but for the framework it makes a lot of sense i have another question that i i'm not sure where where it that's that belongs to but uh for example the the kind of interoperability or integration with that that's something i would like also to have like a bit more discussion because and this is related to the multi-domain thing i mentioned that i i foresee in the future that we we will have not purely wired or purely wireless scenarios where we want to provide some determination reliability so for me it would be good to understand how we foresee that to work if we have some wire segment connected to a wireless domain how the dead net plus raw architectures fit in together and in fact that that seems very plausible i mean my recollection also was that very early on when we were chartering the group or shortly afterwards there was explicit discussion about exactly these kind of pockets of wired islands that would be connected by wireless or or vice versa and uh so naturally the the bridge is you know you want to be able to support heterogeneous kinds of um multi multi-subnet scenarios heterogeneous meaning wired and wireless mixed actually hi everyone i'm speaking like hearing a little bit uh the interworking of pro and deafness like just this phrase was a bit of a surprise for me because i fully agree on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "heterogeneous domains and so on that's what we are after but uh when we were discussing the chartering of raw um at least my takeaway was that raw is an extension of that net towards wireless so if we do a good job then there is no need to figure out interworking like it is at some point it was discussing this work should be done in that net or not and at least that was my takeaway from the chartering that rho is a sort of a wireless extension wireless specific aspects defined for the base defined by deathnet if it is not the case then we need some interworking then maybe we have not done a good job in here we went away from the architecture just might can i just repeat back to you what i think you're saying i think you're actually in agreement with just maybe some the emphasis being the raw is this examination of in what ways.net might have overlooked issues that architectural issues that need support so that uh raw you know the wireless cases will function seamlessly so so i'm violently agreeing that there's not a separate architecture so much as we start with that net and we look for places that may not support fully or have been overlooked or gaps and and that is the ultimate deliverable from the raw working group is that gap analysis would you agree with shadows i mean if we do a good job we are uh features which don't first of all there is no nothing that says it can only work on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "wireless so if we if we do a um an extension on the first hand it has to be completely compatible with with back with that net it's it's kind of a an extension an option if you like and on the other hand uh it could be placed and like carlos said it could be placed on on devices which are connected with wire and wireless and it would basically the psc would decide over every interface whether they are wired or wireless where you place the copy it's just that wireless creates a situation which is much harder than wire for which the plc is much more needed but it doesn't mean would not work for a wire i mean it's just an interface it's just a better interface and probably if you have if you have wire uh there will be less use of the wireless and as much as possible the wire will be used but if somebody walks on the wire you know catch the wire and not tell me it does not happen then then the wireless will be there and then you'll you'll maintain the quality because you might choose one two three wireless interfaces in parallel to ensure you you maintain your your delivery so i'm completely in agreement with both carlos and janos and i don't think uh what they said is opposed right i think that they also agree with one another from what i understand so we are on the same page now that to carlos point does the architecture reflect that i hope it does as part of the review with the work group last call when we do it we we certainly want to uh ensure that this is the case right i mean we should not pass this document if it is not compatible or fully compatible with pet net now that there is one caveat is that some use cases we have are not fully detonated to end if you look at the access use case we kind of say hey we will decide whether we replicate over one or more of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "the access interfaces like 5g wi-fi in parallel or one of them or three wi-fi and no 5g or one-sided g1 wi-fi you decide and we basically attribute any loss end-to-end loss l3 loss to the access link meaning that whether the prime is at the access link or on the rest of the way we attribute the issue to the access link and we want high reliability but the the deterministic latency goes away because if you don't have that net on the whole hops or end to end latency goes away you cannot guarantee it but at least you can guarantee delivery and and optimize you know the amount of delivery by using diversity that would be the only game that we can play in that case so with that we kind of depart from you know the fully detonated use cases we extend beyond that but i guess it's okay still because basically this use case was listed to us at the beginning when we started this group and started working on this the access of the excess use case was not really there but when we talked to people that that they always came back with this use case i mean the foremost use case is should i use 2y2 wi-fi one wi-fi one 5g 25g i mean what should i use at this mode and yes the psc can resolve that so so if you ask that that net end-to-end to exercise the plc we have a problem because this use case is a foremost use case so so that that's that's when wait so you're saying that the access use case is the foremost use case i believe that when i'm hearing people and getting feedback about what we do at raw um they care a lot about that use case they want it okay and in that use case basically a row monitors the first hop which is the wired wireless access but we care about the end-to-end delivery"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "and so basically we say the the the most of the time the um the failing uh chain now the the this capable element is the first half it's the wireless so we attribute any delay euro to the wireless even if it's not the case but since you're not that net end to end you cannot guarantee you could be right if you are then you're back to the first case but if you're if you're if you're not that net on all path end to end which is the real case of a phone today um i think row still can it can do something with the psc and so it would be sad to to say not covered and that's why we have this game yes i say so and by the first use case you're talking about the mesh use case yeah the first use case the one we came up with when we started this work right we say we have we have this big thing and and then inside there is this little mesh which is uh the sort of mesh that raw is building right now with the dow projection work and um in that case we are the net end to end and we fully should obey the net architecture now in the case where we only monitor the access at layer 2 but pay the price for ipn to end uh we are not that net end-to-end because we basically use the psc just to to decide which access link is going to be used and in that use case yeah we cannot we don't obey the thing that we granted the latency and we are that net all the way through because we are not so if you want to drop this use case but a lot of people will be unhappy with youtube if we do right yeah so if i may just i i'm in angry with what pascal said and just to come to to just provide a comment on the integration or interoperability point i i'm not saying just to clarify also to janus that what row is doing is not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "compatible i'm just saying that i think it's it will be useful to have documented somewhere how this interpretability is achieved also for the sake of checking that we are doing a good job but i think that's a useful piece of information and since we have architecture in the framework maybe we can find a way or a place to to have that discussion greg i haven't been managing the queue so i've been appreciating that people are self-managing but go ahead greg we haven't heard from you yet um um i'm not sure that um i'm comfortable with the end-to-end um terminology because that reminds me the discussion uh we had in discussing itf network slides so the itf network slice is a construct to provide the transport network connectivity for uh 5g network slides and 5g does not use end-to-end either but it looks at it as a 5g network slice is a covers access network and core network the deathnet itself could be a technology to provide constrained connections in a transport network so to realize itf networks less so i would probably look at what roy is doing in this um architecture and in the case that raw is delivering the access"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and that probably would be uh classified as non-free gpp access and then um we can connect to uh 5g network slides and then include a transport network realized using the deathmat so i would not look at it as replacing but complementary technology where the raw provides access and that net provides their transport network connectivity greg if i may answer that's perfectly fine with me the way you're describing it uh so just two two remarks one is you can deploy that net between you know the phone the access and across the 5g core and beyond the 5g core i mean it's whatever the internet is but then that net provides only the guarantees you know between the device and the exit of the 5g core so that's that's perfectly okay that net covers from an entry point to an exit point um you can also say row does the distribution on the device with the pse and then if you decide to use 5g miracle you know the the packet will have all the the guarantees all the way through the car as well and that's that's neat it's row from the first hop and then that net inside the core and then whatever at the end so then again since it's not that end to end we don't have latency warranties um it's just just my observation is the way we describe it in the architecture and the framework is completely compatible with what you say it's not there is no position in my mind we basically say hey we monitor um when we can you know whatever if we can ping or something to any uh on on the or get any radio information on the first half we leverage that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "and then we we observe and that's really am and that's really your work we observe the end to end ip and if effectively you go through a very reliable 5g slice and if the rest after you know the rest of the internet is nothing pretty much nothing then effectively will get a very good result in this oam and the psc will certainly favor that that particular interface as being very reliable and working very well uh but will not observe what goes in the call the call will be transparent we'll just observe that between the the station the user equipment or whatever and the server we we have a good end-to-end reliability because we cannot observe the individual ops that that's what we say in that use case we if we can we observe the first half whatever we can gather us information the first top but anyway what we care about is this layer three oam between the source and the destination we get whatever whether what we send on that particular path uh works or not versus the rest so but but the difference is in the in the mesh case we effectively will use oam at each hub we will observe everything and we'll get a much finer observation of which path of sub-path we can take for instance in the mesh case you can decide to use the top path and then go to the bottom path and finish with the bottom path just because there is there is an error in some links somewhere along the the end of the top path that's not the sort of thing you can do with the access use case we basically monitor we say if we send over this radio we get this result and to end if we send over that radio we get this result but we have no feedback from the 5g core we could we just see it works you see what i mean that's the difference between the two use cases i hope i was clear not too sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "um i welcome others to join the notes i've been um capturing things and i'll re-listen to the recording but uh please join in if you'd like in terms of the note-taking yes um pascal are you you touched very interesting question and um so how end to end um sla to be uh provided by the components because if we disaggregate their uh network slice or the service so um we can monitor end to end and the same time as described in the mesh we can monitor and optimize each hub and uh there are several questions here that i'm very much interested in exploring and discussing one of them is that okay what metrics we use uh so what metrics could be used best to create a additive metric and there are different works uh being done in the industry to do that so to allow desegregation of uh service level objectives in the different components so that we we can have a predictable quality of ser of service delivered and at the same time it will help us uh to localize and optimize elements and components of the network so i i just wanted so my thought was that not to put that net and raw against each other but i'm looking at them these technologies as complementary what i like in the way you you discussed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "it is we can see two use cases one of them is is raw kind of over that net meaning that you have all the that net support in every every hops and that's the mesh case and that net has new services on top of that and that's the pse right so that's that's one use case and the other use case is that net uh on a certain part of the way and raw basically has a front end to it so you you manage the access with row and once the access is passed this net that net takes over and and for row it's it's finished it's just so these are this is more like the access case um and and so it kind of matches what we have uh in mind but on the other hand i'm just wondering if we describe enough of that in the architecture we need to stay high level but for instance what you say about additive metrics and these aggregated basically functions should we put more text in the architecture about this would you have some suggestion because for this call that's what we are after we are saying hey we need to publish the architecture so we can start the work and the architecture should basically give us you know the kind of the format in which we're working and the terms and and the functions that we need to to provide etc so we discuss oam but do we do it in enough detail and not too much detail that's always the problem we need to to leave room for the work so we cannot impose everything at the architectural level it's vague enough but on the other hand uh if there are important architectural concepts like this disaggregation it should be cited so you see what i'm after i mean what they said in that email is there are topics like layer 2 matrix layer 2 information and i was thinking about lu really because he knows uh dilip you know and the way it works and what cetera so but but yes oem is the other very very very critical thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "and we have a high-level description of who i am but if you could in your review of the architecture before we publish or even before you know the group call look at it and see if what you've said can be covered within the architecture is not described enough and should be described i mean i would really appreciate that feedback because away any component in this would can i can i echo back what i think you're saying is that you want to give enough detail but not too much detail there's this fine line that you're wanting these reviews to really scrutinize that um yeah what that boundary is not to the sky exactly and basically uh getting since really um greg is the expert uh getting feedback on how much oem we cover and the real architecture of am you know whether you do it in band etc that needs to be covered and the concept of segregation is not covered and i was wondering if we should mention it and have some text about it that was my question if i if i can chime in i think what pascal said it's uh very relevant uh now um and for me uh what is important is to understand uh the overhead that uh creator that makes having this end-to-end considering the wireless segment and taking the perspective this end-to-end control with respect to uh controlling the wireless segment and then having some sort of overall view of this wireless segment and then joining the deadnet or the wired segment and having this aggregation at different different let's say components in the network and this is important if the type of or the overhead for signaling it's very different in in the in the same the do and the two parts of of the network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:07",
    "text": "so i think what i'm hearing is that there is quite a bit of interest in this access use case that it should be included in the in the um two use cases you know you talked about multiple interfaces but that was different than the access use case so there's really three here pascal let's hear your last words if i was it was some some guru oh i was just saying that given the amount of um conversation and discussion here that um you know when we first started out you said oh we have these two use cases it sounds like this third use case warrants inclusion yeah and then again the use cases are really in the framework right they they are not in the architecture and uh right so but i think we we captured there because we we do have now a separate framework document that just you know let's begin to populate it with um i think we're cleaning this is now even if we you know we're in some ways we're working backwards and forwards at the same time the framework is kind of working backwards and the architecture documents it makes a lot of sense right we need to understand what framework we want to have in mind to like like what carlos said to make sure we have enough in the architecture and the problem is not to match and publish so we can start the work and so you we need to have this third use case in mind i completely agree um the question is what of this discussion impacts the architecture what's missing in the architecture and and the thing for me that i heard that three missing in the architecture and then the framework certainly we can have more stuff but in the architecture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "it was more um the the points that greg made about um basically kind of can do we do row over that net or row first and then that nut and th this needs to be kind of shown in some picture i think so that's missing and then there were the points about and i'm very glad that we have this discussion and this comes out it comes out that i was you know i don't know i am enough and i'm contributing when i can to the oam work but i'm not i'm not an author on that level and so greg's feedback with you know what's happening and disaggregation and stuff i mean kind of phrases a flag in me um saying hey we could describe better the way the oim can be done and um [Music] what could be included and in particular responsibilities right do we do we discuss a little bit that there is a layer three away and to end that it's used to measure the access for instance even if we so re-abstract the rest or some more thing which which captures the leap at every up so we have that discussion but do we have enough do we talk enough about responsibilities and objects and components and um maybe we need to have you know names associated to components doing this thing and that thing and and if we need that then that should be in the architecture and that's missing because we don't go to that detail in the net architecture we do right we if you look at this we talk about the service layer and we say uh you do this thing those things and you have the bus stack to send out the receiver and you say oh here you're doing at this level you're doing replication elimination and this layer you're doing uh forwarding um whatever i mean this is described and it makes sense it belongs to the architecture so so if we need oem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "components which have specific functions and and they have names and responsibilities as well probably we need a drawing greg thank you pascal um i i agree with you and uh we uh worked at that net on oem component but as additional complementary set of documents so we are finalizing that net oem framework and we have uh two more documents that uh analyze uh that net over ip and that net over mpls oem specific aspects so uh if we look uh if i when i look at a raw architecture document i think it uh sufficiently covers oem issue and so it can progress if we feel that there are more things that we need to uh discuss uh in regard to oem aspects in raw or in some use cases i think that that can be perfectly addressed in additional documents in further documents this is great actually so so yes you're the expert i will trust you and anyway yes most of the out to specifically does not belong to the architecture right the architect says what we do does not go into detail of how we do it that's the framework because how we do it will know in the end so if that's so if the oam is is probably good enough then we are back to the original question i mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "what specifically are we needing in this document to go work or plus call so i still i still in uh i have this to do on showing that net and and row either row over that net in the mesh case or row first and that net second in the access case where that net covers the core and draw the access um so this is a nice picture that you can draw and explain um it's beyond the use case because it's beyond the framework because here you're talking about what kind of service you do end-to-end and how the functions are separated so it's uh this is architecture and we we need it um with that i mean if and that's that's the ball in your hands now once this was actually a great conversation um uh even though lou isn't here um so yeah i think you're absolutely right to get to um working group last call what i heard you say also was that um we can you know perhaps draw these diagrams of the this kind of relationship between ron.net for the use cases we've discussed here around raw over.net raw preceding.net for the access the wireless access followed by the core coverage um and that that might be okay to include because it's about the relationships and is arc architectural and then also greg i completely agree that um kind of following suit that if um it was good to hear you as the experts say the architecture document covers oam enough and if there are more issues we could as you've done in dotnet create additional oaum docks oem docs and we will effectively explain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "how they work in the framework now and and it is it has started effectively so so this is very compatible i mean we are on the same page that's really really cool now the question remains when do we publish the architecture when do we do last call i understand that lou is not with us so we will need um his his feedback yes yes and in fact what's good is that we um although it's unfortunate that this coincided with his vacation we had you know we had originally asked for three meetings the first of which apparently was too soon so they didn't schedule it for us um but we do have a two-week stretch hopefully he will be back in that two weeks and we should kind of queue up that the next intro meeting which is on july 15th that that hopefully um if there are additional topics that he'd like to air before working group last call that um that's what we planned for in that meeting and that's what we solicit from the mailing list explicitly so eve what i suggest is uh i'll try to embed the discussion of today at least in the document um english before the last is the cutoff um i cannot be in philadelphia by the way i'm so sorry about this that's okay we we we know how to get you in queue you in um so at least now we're all very comfortable with all this online uh hybrid virtual conferencing so um the question is you know we have i'm trying to think what the timing is i don't remember i think we're on thursday maybe one of the morning sessions uh so it shouldn't be too bad for you it's maybe a five or six hour difference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "from the east coast gonna be okay it's gonna be okay yeah just okay good i will be missing the corridor discussions i'm recently yes yes it would be nice to see you in person and uh hopefully some of the rest of you who are on the call will be there in person um but um i like the idea that you're gonna you'll embed some of the discussion today into the document it looks however like janos here uh in the queue uh like i said i wasn't really looking a whole lot at the queue but uh please jump in what are your thoughts yeah just uh just i was wondering about the timing of the start of the working room pass call and maybe actually it could be good to do it after itf-104 just because at least some of us being in the same place we may have further fruitful discussions yeah i think that sounds reasonable we somehow relate that to pasca and we will be missing your passport for sure just because like i was thinking like starting it before idea it's crazy there's so much going on people will miss it either because they're busy or they're getting too much email so um i i agree it's not like it postpones things much further it's probably just you know it moves things out a couple weeks i agree i mean we we have the next meeting where hopefully lou will give us inputs then we will have to to earn all those inputs the prime is probably it was going to be too late to publish anything before ietf so there will not be a document with all those inputs inside before itf that cannot be so there is we don't even have the document ready to start our group last call uh you know at the etf unless we can publish you know on monday or something of the atf so so um it's completely a strange goal to start it right after the atf that is already a very strange call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "and i i agree with you i don't believe that after that you know it's it's august many people are in vacation so the best can do is probably september and since even some people are in vacations it would probably be all the month of september something like that has to make sure left time and that's the way i see it that's really the best can do yeah it seems pragmatic realistic okay any other issues or concerns otherwise i'd like to give you all back the last 10 minutes i'm really pleased with this discussion i i found it really helpful i hope the rest of you did as well and thank you for taking the time to show up um [Music] very much appreciated uh and please feel free to um have a look i i did try to capture the um the discussion pascal in the minutes and all corrections and extensions and editions welcome and i presume there'll be a um a recording that will also that that folks can listen to for for the recap as well um and so with that when we let's call it a wrap thank you everyone bye bye bye oh wait wait wait wait um karina did you get your aunt your question answered yes i got it thank you very much i just opened up the chat window and i could see i was been taking minutes so i have not been looking at the chat no no i quickly found it thank you very much excellent so the uh updated draft will come beginning next week that's wonderful to hear um i think it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "going to pave the way as our first um yes our first document and we're really pleased with the quality um of the document and the rigor with which everybody involved has answered each and every um uh detailed and uh question and minutiae it's really and it's been very educational also given the timing of you know that this document precedes a document that really describes how the technology works over ip so that's been so yeah yeah we we did a lot of improvement and i think you were also on the list where we directly marked uh how we address the different comments we received so i guess oh better to say we hope it now goes smoothly so um most likely you uh you need to tell us then what to do or if it's directly go back to the iesg um i don't know i do not know i don't know either actually um okay so we we do the post and then just answer or put all the others in the list and then we're gonna see i think they directly get the information as soon as we upload a new version also so let's see yeah and and the tools will help do that diff by the way so that'll be great yeah that's perfect and um one of us will join remotely in philadelphia and present briefly the updates we did based on the feedback we got so we are also in the live q then wonderful okay now it's a wrap yeah so enjoy the morning evening and lunchtime whatever in which time zone everyone is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "exactly and i'm just i'm just staying online to capture some of the comments in the chat yes in the minutes and um so uh that's why i'm still here great okay so i will now close my office for the uh today have a nice weekend everyone bye bye maybe you can stop recording uh i'm how do i do that do i just click on the recording oh i don't know maybe oh because i'm still working on grabbing some of the comments from the chat i see it okay have a nice long weekend oh bye-bye you too i'm finally i'm finally done as well okay enjoy uh the weekend i don't know if you get a long weekend because you're an international company no we don't it's different okay okay well enjoy your weekend nonetheless great to have you here thank you for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "showing up bye thank you bye"
  }
]
