[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "[Music] hello welcome to trance hmm I\u0027d hoped a more verbose link to the note well but um if you\u0027ve seen the note well pay now and just assume this is the same one so on our agenda there\u0027s not much as to 69-62 piece if we\u0027ve talked about threat analysis and nothing much has happened so those are our item schedules does anyone have any other items ok so then let\u0027s continue so the 696 to do base we have six items left you can see them at the bottom of the screen that we would like to resolve so that we can get this document out so the first item is the document status has been some description on the list - changes from proposed Stannah to experimental i\u0027m it seems that everybody is okay with extra mental but there was some pushback so if there\u0027s anyone who wants to say something about this yeah rich Sol\u0027s Akamai yeah I was I think the major push back against it was like it was more about a process question and there was question if there was support to do another round of experimentation it seems that there is so as long as there\u0027s consensus on finally yeah I would agree with that who are you exactly - Malik did assert it\u0027s unfortunate the nature of public certificates are that we have to do experiments on the public Internet and that\u0027s some what\u0027s undesirable at times but it\u0027s unavoidable in order to figure out how these things work at scale there\u0027s no there\u0027s no test environment you can use for the public Internet and so yeah to clarify the the we\u0027re doing an experiment on this protocol it\u0027s at the protocol itself because it hasn\u0027t been implemented and tested is experimental state so you know we we believe that there\u0027s a commitment to implement over the next few years but just it\u0027s you know it\u0027s transitioning from the current format to the next format it\u0027s gonna take time it\u0027s gonna take effort so yeah I completely agree with that comment you just this it\u0027s the only thing we can do and yes the yes the new improvements we\u0027re making the new improvements were making our very important and it\u0027s important that we get them out there do you guys run a CT vlog yeah we do can you say anything about transition transition plans is there anything that you could we we support the draft we intend to we\u0027re working with Google we were at their CT days we work very closely with them having the only other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "implementation other than theirs and so yeah we\u0027re very supportive about this we have internal desires to do even more exciting stuff with CT that I hope I\u0027ll be able to talk about in the future I I\u0027m a Devin O\u0027Brien from the Google Chrome team so kind of piggybacking off of what Tim said oh we actually do have plans to begin experimentation I mean right now our priorities have been bringing CT enforcement and so that has taken our you know limited engineering resources and sort of funneled it towards there but within the next probably six to nine months we we\u0027re laying out our plans to do experimentation to sort of get like hardened data so that we can back up some of these like aspects of 696 you list so it\u0027s on our roadmap we don\u0027t know exactly have that roadmap ready to share yet but as soon as you do share it on list um but I just wanted to like voice that this is absolutely something we stand behind and we\u0027re gonna be working on it just right now not just not yet okay so the next item and this came from a Curry\u0027s unfortunately not here but he suggested to remove the preventing track and Klein\u0027s claim because it was a bit too strong and it would cause problems with RSA PSS so we\u0027ve got a full request for that and the question is does anyone object to this claim to be removed okay so everybody seems okay with it we see here no objections we got a remote on so let\u0027s see go ahead Andrew hey hi I\u0027m Angie oh yes I change that I did right onto the list to explain why I object and the reason why I think there\u0027s been a misunderstanding which is that using a deterministic signature scheme isn\u0027t the only way to achieve this it\u0027s also possible to just sign a message like an sth just once and then you know just store that signature and just return that signature for future requests for the sth and I think this is important because we don\u0027t know yet exactly how gossip is going to work and it might not be possible to deploy gossip experiments if there\u0027s a concern that that\u0027s going to lead to tracking so this is the sort of thing which we could always you know remove this requirement in the future but if we don\u0027t have that requirement in now then it could lead to trouble getting gossip experiments going and I\u0027m not the only one who has expressed an objection to removing this section Tom Ritter and Linus Nordberg also chimed in on lists saying they object to this so obviously this means really discussion on the mailing list before so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:12",
    "text": "then the next item also came from a cursory few is the no security implications claim georgg hackers not here okay okay okay so some me not so let skip this for now Mew I\u0027ll go to the other one so there\u0027s another proposal to clarify what we mean by the current ntp time there was there was some some discussion but I think since these are new items I think we really need to be be a little strict and say if someone doesn\u0027t give us text and we have nothing to talk about that so will not continue with these items so if anyone really strange feel strongly about this they should actually volunteer to also provide the text so does anybody here feel strongly about this any concerns from this like do people don\u0027t care like okay so if it\u0027s not this important then we\u0027re pretty late in the process and we\u0027re just not going to do anything with this so so we\u0027ll see if we can get focus to propose some text and then maybe we\u0027ll see if it goes anywhere but it\u0027s just not not a strong participation we\u0027ll just come to drop it so next item is the using JSON format for error reporting I would hope we get a little more input on that item because you have implementers here I koribo know Trustwave obviously I\u0027m the one who proposed this the idea here is that in section 5 the actual response body that defines any additional error data is that as it should there\u0027s no actual requirement for logs actually returned any data just besides the HTTP status code but my thought here was that if we if we use the JSON problem reporting format logs can send back or metadata so that consumers of the log can basically automatically respond to any errors one thing that came out of us CT days is the potential some thoughts around rate limiting based on roots or intermediate CAS if if if submitters to those logs could get more information back from the lot of operators say like you know you\u0027re being later limited because you\u0027re intermediate here and in change being currently what rate limited try back in two thousand seconds or something like that that information can be provided through this format and what\u0027s nice here is that the Jason response format it doesn\u0027t mandate that you support any extension metadata fields so at a later date if we decide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "that some CT log endpoint wants to go and return additional metadata that can be done at a later date maybe in like a further draft this is kind of just laying the framework such that we have this error format to fine now and we can leverage it later okay so are you willing to write up some text for this yes Corey again um yeah sure I\u0027ll give it a shot okay great thanks yeah Tim how big I\u0027m assuming that Corey I\u0027m assuming that you\u0027re modifying a should here right so your are you thinking that this is going to be a proposed format that we may change later or not sure I\u0027d want to make it mandatory well it\u0027s still kind of half-baked but I really like the idea of having a format that we can start experimenting with and returning error data because one of the feedback that we do get from lots of the people who consume our logs is in fact that they get error response codes back and they have no idea what\u0027s going on and what they should do in response quote from Trustwave again um so the the JSON format it\u0027s actually defined in RFC I think it\u0027s 78 oh seven and it defines in there there\u0027s a couple standard fields in that Jason problem document but it also allows for extensibility in the future it basically says that if a if a client consuming that problem document sees a field that it doesn\u0027t understand it must ignore it so if that\u0027s not treated as an error case if you know it\u0027ll later at a later point we want to add some additional metadata all right Tim LD so your proposal would be you you should report errors and if you do they must be in this RFC format I inquiry again for justice us so yes well I I think it\u0027d be great if we could say must like you returned so I believe from every endpoint to find in 69-62 beast there are error codes and error messages to find it would be nice that you know that they all come back in this problem document the document format yeah just because of the fact that it\u0027s kind of late and we haven\u0027t really played with this I think I personally would prefer a should and should according from trust with um so yeah I mean I guess if it is late in the game you know and there\u0027s no provision to change this and I guess you know maybe just remains it should right if we\u0027re talking about publication as an experimental standard at some point in the future you know if everything goes well we\u0027re going to transition to a different standard status and at that point that\u0027s a new document and if this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:13",
    "text": "turns out to work well and it\u0027s and people like it we can turn it into a mosque but you know it should for now okay now is the last item I don\u0027t know where this where this came from it just was it appeared on a list of of items that were sent to the list but I don\u0027t know who originated this and I can\u0027t find any discussion of it but the option for City log so signal when rejections were due to rate limiting and again we\u0027ve got the same thing if this is important and we would need a volunteer to write text Tim hobby I would think that Cory\u0027s proposal covers that adequately that\u0027s actually true okay okay any other 69-62 biz items not so we\u0027re just sort of waiting on a curve okay so okay so so we\u0027ll skip those items now so let\u0027s go back to the D Trans threat analysis so this has been mostly a work of steve canned and and and then the last about three IETF meetings I think we see you know small updates every four months and two people mostly arguing about what it should be and most other people not caring anymore what happens to this document so we really don\u0027t want to keep the working group open for just this document so we\u0027re sort of pondering what to do here and it doesn\u0027t seem to be that much interest talking it\u0027s pretty far finished as it\u0027s also a ways of it if it doesn\u0027t get finished but but we really don\u0027t want to have more more infighting between two people and just waiting forever on this you know I I think the one way to frame the question is is the value of the document greater than the cost of getting it closed and at this point right and at this point we\u0027re just not seeing a lot of interest in the document right it\u0027s it\u0027s I don\u0027t and it\u0027s hard to know if it\u0027s that people have lost their taste for discussion of it and but and that they really do care or that they just don\u0027t care I should say you just don\u0027t care so rich Sol\u0027s Akamai well you know it\u0027s got like the same level of interest that the rest of trans and gossip has these days I would say yeah maybe less interest because it\u0027s been worn down by the infighting flip a coin call for consensus and move it forward I think it\u0027s a worthwhile document it\u0027s a shame that it\u0027s going to get wrapped around the axle over this one discussion of what is or is not an attack or how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:16",
    "text": "describe that attack cut the whole thing out then I don\u0027t I don\u0027t care but yes I\u0027d like to see it published I can leave it at this point you know it\u0027s only those who have egos involved in this fight we\u0027ll take it back Paul and I\u0027ll discuss it after the meeting and then take it out back out to the mailing list okay then just a summary on on some of the items that haven\u0027t really seen much much progress as it\u0027s the gossip city gossip decline behavior end up binaries I think I think it would be good if that if we see more work going that way that that\u0027s just a new working groups will be started up or above started up and did that work there I don\u0027t think we need to remain open for it because the the progress is really really slow at this point we also seen this with the NTIA sponsoring a workshop soon on software module transparency and it seems like you know if there\u0027s an interest to end them you know specifying something it may cover you may cover these and similar for the DNS SEC transparency I did a draft PowerPoint which I\u0027ve presented at Athena\u0027s option you can have a look at it there but I also don\u0027t think we need to keep the working group open for this specifically also because it will probably not reuse much of the certificate transparency format so it would be something fairly new anyway so I think it can also find it\u0027s a new way into the into the IDF okay so then who wants to fill up ten minutes with interesting discussion before I crush yourself Ben Schwartz I\u0027m very interested in in the possible interaction between redaction and IP certificates I wonder if they\u0027re not considered considered that specific case so yeah you\u0027re right actually I skipped one item it\u0027s the redaction the redaction has come back and forth to the working group like three or four times now and and again I think we should we should just if there\u0027s an interest in there we should do you have those people that are driving it to start up off and maybe working group because they\u0027ve come here and vanished on a number of occasions so I think that should just be split off from this work amateur from Linda there\u0027s folks that I mean this is a browser vendor you\u0027re kind of imposing their view of the world no offense but chrome has proposed a mechanism that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "sort of addresses kind of indirectly redaction through on through the use of basically enterprise in an enterprise namespace defined in chrome it\u0027s to permit stuff that won\u0027t get logged at all rather than stuff that has a label edited and I that doesn\u0027t really address your juice case in the slightest so maybe the chrome folks could say something about that Tim how big the lack of interest is actually entirely due to lack of interest from the browsers that a lot of people who remain interested in redaction and I think the the fair summary is that none of the current methods work particularly well so but there also is until we get there the chrome folks were very early on this and everybody else has been just starting to come up with their own CT policies and so I would encourage people who think redaction is important to you continue having discussions with the root programs about their root policies if we can get a root program interested in discussing a concrete proposal then we can start discussing it again but yeah I don\u0027t think this working group has to hang around just for people to come back and do that we have 8 more minutes do you want to say more about your use case you know the question of redacting IP addresses sure so this is this isn\u0027t exactly my area but it seems to me that the IP certificates have very different security properties from the perspective of a client who\u0027s establishing a connection in particular there are fewer intermediaries in some sense the client validates the location of the validates the name by its route ability it depending on your perspective so I think I I\u0027m a little concerned personally about essentially creating a system where any IP end up with an enumeration of all of the IP addresses that have ever requested an IP certificate that that seems unfortunate to me I guess I you know I I agree that this doesn\u0027t need to hold a river but I mostly wanted to come and see if anybody else is interested in talking about these things maybe outside the group I also would like to see the binary transparency work received in it and my my group is very interested in binary transparency in something like a JavaScript context with maybe a browser extension so again if anybody wants to talk about that outside the group please let me so on the questions of IPS IP certificates are weird and actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:19",
    "text": "quite rare a nomination of the IPS that have IP certificates is a little bit less dangerous because they have to be public IPS anyway and the information that you\u0027re leaking is that a certain ipv4 address has have a HTTPS certificate at one particular point in time that\u0027s perhaps not the most sensitive piece of information in the universe the IP certificates have a lot of interesting problems that are being actively discussed just because of the fact that as you mentioned the security properties are very different and the lifetimes of static IPs are often very different and much less stable than DNS names and the and in particular they get farmed out to various entities on a regular basis sometimes very quickly so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a reasonable position that perhaps they shouldn\u0027t exist and the validation rules for them is kind of being actively discussed as something we will either clean up or we will just eliminate this I think we might be one of two companies in the entire world that actually issued IP certificates on a regular basis but just to be clear there\u0027s there\u0027s no additional requirements on my 69-62 bits for any of this right yeah as far as I\u0027m aware they look just exactly the same for the verses of Trance yeah yeah well that\u0027s an interesting question actually in many cases actually IP certificates are more commonly used in non browser use cases even if they\u0027re issued off for publicly dressed recruits just because of the fact that they\u0027re used in server to server in IOT use cases where the trust store generally is the same as the trust or that was stolen from some root program so they have to be publicly trusted but there probably are people using I teach their IP certificates with browsers I think captive portals would be the most likely use case this is a Devon from Google Chrome again trying to wrap my head around the point that you brought up about the numerating IP you said you knew bringing IP is concerning I\u0027m not sure I understand why it\u0027s concerning is that is it possible if we still have I think we thought sometime sure so I don\u0027t want to take up lots of working group time if there\u0027s if this is outside the group but this is Ben Schwartz the my use cases generally are about services operated by by clients that they want to be able to use securely from a browser but the whose "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "existence they want to be confidential because otherwise those services could be subject to various kinds of attacks such as for example a DDoS attack so if the if the certificates are logged publicly then it makes it potentially much easier for an adversary to discover the existence of the service and mount an attack against it in ipv4 I agree that you can essentially enumerate the ipv4 space you can zmapp for these the existence of these certificates but n ipv6 that\u0027s at least not so clear that that\u0027s possible so personally for my use cases it would be nice if if browsers would take ipv6 ipv6 IP certificates and not require them to be fully enumerated in the in the certificate transparency box well and that that\u0027s complicated too right because one of the goals of certificate transparency is we wanted to know who is issuing what so we pay attention to naughty practices and the dark little corners of validation is exactly where the naughty practices tend to be so I personally find a lot of value in logging these I think you\u0027re right that there\u0027s ipv6 is a spot where you could hi if you wanted to but I\u0027m not sure how what the how that sort of weigh the benefits and I think I think the world is moving to a place where you know you eat a lot of the redactions stuff people thought they were doing a better job of hiding than they then they were and they had semantics for example had an option of please don\u0027t log my ICT certificate and it was rather popular most of them ended up getting logged by Google anyway so whether they were actually getting what they wanted is a little bit questionable so I think I would sue I think I would suggest to people that if you have a public ipv6 address and your security is based on the fact that nobody knows your public ipv6 address you should perhaps revisit your threat assumptions yeah I think one of the things that we saw a sort of anecdotally was looking through logs and we and this is in the context of finding certificates with likes maybe malformed se T\u0027s in our a so we\u0027re doing a big analysis trying to help CAS get up to speed with that and one of the most common responses we got was like sheer surprise that these will publicly know like these things were that they were like these are behind lockdown intranet they\u0027re like no this was crawled and put in here and it\u0027s not just by Google crawler right there\u0027s tons of white hat security researchers to do these things at scale and yes currently mathematically ipv6 is so much harder right just as an aside for that but echoing Tim I think any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "model that relies on those things not being discoverable for long it may not be like a mall you want to build a lot of foundation on sort of not addressing your concern but sort of the rationale for your concern thanks for coming so we briefly had the your items from the adv fee which you can see the bottom just like and so we\u0027re just wondering about your your updated views on those items so there seems to be no no potential by changing the document status to experimental so that that one\u0027s resolved the remove tracking preventing tracking clients claim there\u0027s still some disagreement but where it should be removed completely or revised so what is your a few unsure I mean that\u0027s a working of decision so on the my position I think is that on like they good I strike I was trying to get out is like that what the maybe you could pull a PR from my understanding is when I read it was that when you say well new terminal signatures like that that there\u0027s a sit the thing that says don\u0027t do to or ministers integers and yet simultaneously the ITF is pushing people use RSA towards PSS and so there seem to be in conflict and so um and I understood and so I thought okay no one was trafficked to be um dad there was some question about how to manage that in particular on like ever who was where we said that you could you could deal with this by like storing might exploring the city or somewhere and then then the race that wasn\u0027t practical and like um I guess like I think exists easy walking decision you how to proceed and you could proceed like we\u0027ve deliberately decided that we think PSS is stupid and we don\u0027t do PSS and because he has one one five or it could be we\u0027re gonna like remove this text it could be we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna like you we\u0027re gonna say what you have to suppose integers but it\u0027s like like I just think these things are just some things intentionally you guys need if we have to resolve oh so I\u0027m like not pressing for any particular resolution um but I do think that something\u0027s got to give in terms that triangle um so I don\u0027t know if that helps um I didn\u0027t really understand like oh ye my way to the no list was a frankly pretty inconclusive but any any of our solution the chose are willing to stand behind I\u0027m willing to stamp on okay and then the next time the most have removed no security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "implications can you pull it up I read it myself their day but I have to admit I\u0027m a little rusty on her what this is about huh maybe that this is finally me on the road gestures Ennis I\u0027m fine with that but I guess I\u0027m reading so okay hang in a second moved yeah okay I try what was my complaint about this and I remember now is that we able to find that not quickly I think you actually wanted to remove it and there was some pushback on not removing it but I think it does seem like what most likely happened here another wise what am i complaining about well I think he objected to removing and I think echo suggested removing it and then now confuse cuz this is issue you should remove it it in order or did or did you put that in respond response did you put that in response to my comments and now he objected and I guess to have to pick it I got again alright sigh so Andrew here so um I think that there was some confusion about why this this was why this was in here in this from its Roque I\u0027m trying to think now uh right so it all goes back to why a log has to validate the chain to a trust anchor and I think that originally there was a misunderstanding which was that the only reason the log had to do this was for anti-spam you know to prevent it from being spammed with certificates from you know someone\u0027s you know own trust anchor so that I think then led to the suggestion that we say there\u0027s no that I think that led to your suggestion that we should say that there is no security implications to requiring the check to the trust anchor because it\u0027s just anti-spam but as I pointed out it\u0027s not just anti-spam it\u0027s ensuring that we can attribute every certificate in the log to some certificate authorities so that browsers can take action against the certificate authority so because of that and we do not want to put in that there is no security implication there is a security implication it\u0027s just not anti-spam something else so that make sense paging back into memory and I agree with you I\u0027m happier with this text I think it might be productive for somebody to add what I what you just said somehow because apparently at the fact that apparently several were confused about this suggests that maybe a bigger and it is a subtle point about CSS but have you documented but I\u0027m fine with a planet is PR yeah well actually the I suggested some text in my email "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:21",
    "text": "and then Rob actually included that in his PR so the PR will add in the explanatory text for what is required okay what\u0027s that if you\u0027re our new sex yeah if you go back to the PR yeah if you go over to the drink yeah files changed right right right there we go looks good to me yep this one\u0027s fine awesome thanks okay so then my minds are all stiff need that from you while Teresa and then I can ad review and make them shipped off yes I mean I think make sure that they got yeah double check and then we can go right thank you so so since you may be elisa knows a bit more about what happens to adopted working group work when the working group closes ELISA Cooper it\u0027s so it\u0027s kind of up to you it wasn\u0027t really clear to me when you were going through if it\u0027s just that you that the working group doesn\u0027t want to work on these anymore and there\u0027s individuals who would like to have things ad sponsored it didn\u0027t really seem like that but that\u0027s one possibility but the other possibility is the drafts expire and that\u0027s it it seems to mostly that the works been really slow and if people haven\u0027t haven\u0027t had these cycles to work on them we\u0027ve got a gossip draft that there\u0027s a there\u0027s continuing interest in it but there hasn\u0027t been a lot of progress it was intended for publication as an experimental standard is it can that be ad sponsored sure it could be I think honestly on the one holding that up so maybe it will be better would be if we try to resolve the remaining issues and then just and and and and then um you know III guess I grown I like what were you hoping to Colonus actually ask you that I\u0027m sorry were you hoping to close let me ask you that like now um I am yeah I mean unless you know we\u0027ve been discussing this with several meetings now there\u0027s been no serious objection and by the way my can you aid the sponsor this was a speculative question rather than a request just leave it so technically yes I could but um I guess his ended which these are all working with documents it\u0027d be better to and unless I may feel differently and like I this I think guides the charity fight we\u0027re here but um it might be better to just like keys are working rely for the month or two of law hard lanolin is that what do you think yeah well I would only keep the wooden group open until the Biss document is through the IHG because you never know there could be something that comes back where you need a working up consensus call so if you\u0027re going to do that anyway "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:21",
    "text": "and there\u0027s energy to just process the other document relatively quickly then just leave it open until those two are done I think I can get through that pretty quickly when we another okay any other business hi again sorry this is more of a procedural question due to lack of familiarity so bear with me um so as I mentioned we plan on doing some experiments to get like that at the back like we mean because basically there are like material improvements and in bits that aren\u0027t in sequencing - right and there are things that I think are going to be very useful in the long run but maybe not be in their final state if the WG closes and we come up with these results half a year later what sort of procedurally happens then and again it\u0027s just because I don\u0027t know um we could potentially spin up a new working group or because this would be what we need basically dropping about as fans assume um ultimately transitioning something from experimental to standard um potentially them I don\u0027t know I may be another ad sponsorship but we could spin up another working group pretty quickly on this I think okay yeah and just the reason why I asked this concern is just that like these things move as glacially as changes in the PK ecosystem do and that seems to be a pretty big mismatch to the speed at which like IETF WGS go it just hello Maisie it seems that extenders laughing right next to me so yeah yeah IETF working groups don\u0027t sort of work in an area and cover top you know covered topics we have specific pieces of work to complete so precision music the concept of process which movie star which means are slowly that IETF process because there to be a pacing in a rapid pace uh-huh I think I think like um it\u0027s craft or aggression when we do you think you have possible white feedback from this process we\u0027re hoping to have initial feedback by 104 right yeah so I think I guess what I would say is there are really two possible like we have the procedure the coupon they\u0027re two possible like outcomes here right one is that like we think expenses - this is essentially correct and in which case like we could simply read we could simply you know rebadge it is standard as proposed standard or you know issue like a Navy sponsored small things as well some small Corrections the second is we think is not substantially correct and like more what needs to be done in which case we would we would have that one if our working group in order to do the work given the time frame you\u0027re telling me I think I\u0027d prefer to close this working group and then spit up a new one rather than because we\u0027re gonna ice for like a year or two so I think what we do is we just basically spin up you know eight commands to and maybe even call it trans elastic and tell me I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s like these things get like you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:21",
    "text": "know trans - OH - or something um but um you know to do that but that\u0027d be the process but think yeah again it really depends on what the feedback is the feedback is it\u0027s basically right then like just promoting is easy the feedback thing you don\u0027t want to work then like you have to do that work someone yeah this is Tim I think I agree with that I think actually the document is I don\u0027t know about you guys are what you guys are thinking about proposing we probably will actually have proposed improvements before you do if you\u0027re not gonna do anything until 104 but most of the things that we\u0027re thinking are basically augmenting trends with new ideas and different features and things like that and I think those are better handled as new drafts as opposed to a business and so those can just go through the normal IETF process and hey we\u0027ve got a new draft it\u0027s got great new trans stuff there\u0027s no where it can currently go please tell us where you want to send it no so I think the existing process will work fine even if this close group closes there a bunch of other groups where you close the group but you keep the list and this seems like a good candidate if you follow this process okay has everybody sign the blue sheets and other than that I guess we\u0027re done see you on the mailing list ending is even short when I\u0027ll go through the recording [Music] okay by the way [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:24",
    "text": "yes [Music] "
  }
]