[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "Jabar can you be like yeah if we have if somebody could be logged into jabber case be a pleasure thank you yeah all right we\u0027ll get started with some of the formalities here so welcome to emu at IETF 101 I\u0027m sure you\u0027re all familiar with Nowell and this is probably a little bit of an eye chart but you might actually be able to read it in this room if you\u0027re not familiar with it I suggest you familiarize yourself with the rules of participation here this is the new text I had to change the text and reupload the slide so this is brand new what\u0027s that I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know which way the EMU in this picture alright so we have many takers jabber scribes the blue sheets are going around please sign them just a reminder to state your name at the mic when you speak and always keep it professional okay so we have we have a full agenda and we\u0027ll get started with that just in just a minute I did want to quickly go through just there are particular items on the Charter and I believe we have presentations that cover all of these which is an awesome start to the working group so we have clarifications of ETLs and its use with TLS 1.3 and also some discussion on how you know improving the handling of large certificate chains then there\u0027s a couple aka topics I don\u0027t see yari yet so hopefully he will be here to talk about that and then Alan was going to talk about some fast eeep identity session identity yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "there are some inconsistencies or gaps in those definitions we go back somehow I can go back on this thing we also have Elliott leer I don\u0027t know I do see Elliott here and he was gonna you know pose some questions to the group coming from the perspective of brewski and enrollments and that that sort of thing and how deep or teep might be involved in that so as people trickle in here let\u0027s get started with I see if I can see which which these your slides John okay now there is a microphones yes I think you have to get its told you have to get very close to that light okay yeah so maybe even closer so this talk is about using epls with TLS 1.38 chalasis that\u0027s you know widely supported for authentication in Wi-Fi but the use cases has been growing over the year it\u0027s now also the default mechanisms for certificate based authentication in the multi fire standard and treaty PP 5g access networks 5g access networks was just standardized so this is not deployed either in test phase I don\u0027t know how much people know about TLS 103 but it\u0027s basically a complete remodeling of the TLS handshake protocol including a different message flow different handshake messages different key schedule different services different resumption and it adds encryption which leads to different privacy perspective protection this means that significant part of the old a pls part specification are no longer applicable and that means built high level from how the message fuse all but also to low level details which mess contents you have in the different messages but I think people definitely want to use TLS 103 it provides significantly improved security privacy and reduced latency so tillis dropped "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "not some epls update still drop was discussions on the list we\u0027re not thanks to Ellen and then out yeah put many comments and also Jim I think the dog now is in a pretty good shape and it only needs additional or different requirements compared to RFC 51 6 or TLS 103 next right now so here is a high-level overview what is changed so here is an EPT less hand message flow when you\u0027re using TLS 1 let\u0027s say 0 1 at 101 or two they all look the same and if you look at if TLS when you use TLS 103 it looks quite different and what has changed is that you have for example here in the client what the kind sense you have different messages the server basically lism is done of two blocks of messages only sends one with different context and basically you also get rid of a whole single round trip which is no longer needed when you do TLS 103 yeah so little more in today what details what difference resumption works different in TLS 103 it replaces the earlier session resumption mechanist there are several with a new PSK exchanged now as discussed on the list the peace peace share key exchange cannot be used except for resumption and the resumption also works a little bit different when you use TLS 103 with the presumption you need to indicate the server needs to indicate support or resumption in the initial authentication and to do this it sends a new second session ticket message which contains a PS k a PS k identifier and some other parameter and if if the client has received such a new session ticket it can use that PS k identity and a PS k to negotiate resumption and then it\u0027s produced typically if you have a ticket "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:06",
    "text": "and it\u0027s valid you should do resumption typically if the ticket is valid the server should accept resumption and I think next slide we can see example on how these loops so basically here is the ordinary handshake and then after the client authentication the server sends TLS new session tickle ticket to the clients you get one additional round-trip there and then when you do a resumption it\u0027s a simple TLS 103 handshake but with PSK so this new certificate authentication the reception questions next privacy is another thing that handles can be handled very differently TLS 103 increases and simplifies the privacy by encrypting a large part of the TLS handshake in earlier versions of TLS large part of the handshake who not encrypted for example is just certificate was selling clear text which meant that to use TLS with privacy the client sent an empty certificate list and then you redid their handshake basically twice in t Lester\u0027s no need to do that everything here in yellow are always encrypted including both the servers and the clients certificates you basically get the privacy features for free and of course in EPO so send an identity here early before you start he Lester then you need to use an anonymous identifier and the current drop says that you you must use anonymous identifiers when you know that the server supports TLS 103 can you use the my place Bernard Abell from maxsa the problem though is if you don\u0027t know right and you start that then you\u0027re gonna fail so it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of weird like and the problem is yeah so you\u0027re starting off you don\u0027t really know whether the other guy does you can\u0027t you can\u0027t really include it then you\u0027ve kind of leaked your identity and even if you come back right people can so anyway yeah I\u0027m not sure how you solved that but that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of it there\u0027s there\u0027s a got you in there yeah there\u0027s a this is basically the only area I think there is more clarification needed but I think this is already a problem with earlier version dealing there\u0027s no way to know that this server "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:07",
    "text": "in epls ever support privacy yeah not that this is le lire sorry not that this is an objection at this point but just a note of you know an observation which is if people are doing radius proxy functionality and they need the information that are in the certificates they\u0027re going to lose that in 1.3 so some people who I think will view that as a feature and some people some people may view the as a problem depending on one\u0027s perspective and I just want to note that that\u0027s an issue there that\u0027s right just just to clarify that I\u0027m not aware how you can do half the eat conversation and then proxy it so the issues speaking from this sorry this is Alan decock from radius the issue is that once you start the eat conversation you either do all of it or you proxy all of it if he is so I\u0027m saying is is in the radius layer you proxy based on the identity and that happens no matter what happens inside eat and sort of looking at the certificate and then deciding whether or not to proxy it is something that\u0027s rather a lot more complicated and typically not done yeah yeah I\u0027m also trying to understand what the case actually here is and maybe you guys we\u0027re just speaking past each other are you idiot suggesting that there\u0027s a like a EA Pecos end-to-end and then that\u0027s one of the proxies in in path it\u0027s looking at the EAP traffic even inside the EAP TLS and looking at the certs is that the case that you\u0027re thinking I\u0027m aware one use case where we\u0027re considering doing exactly that we\u0027re going to split essentially different functionality out and we don\u0027t have to respond directly but if we have the if we have the certificate information we have enough information with which to to make decisions that would then that might otherwise be made directly by the radius server and so and so there are a couple of it\u0027s a fairly involved use case but having that information hidden is going to close off some of those use cases we can again as I said it could be considered a benefit or negative and I can flesh that out a little bit more over time but this is this is something that that we have to I think understand a little bit more in the EP use case is this work going on another working group or is it proprietor its proprietary at the moment but it may not be for long so another thing that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:12",
    "text": "changes is the key hierarchy TLS yeah that\u0027s sir sorry I was slow but I want to do follow-up still some more on this topic so that\u0027s a the Kate the use case is that you or anybody else in this room know of are not current they are upcoming or future ones just to try and close that out I think watching the traffic and then proxying or not based on peeking inside of EEP but not actually terminating it that\u0027s I would say that\u0027s a hard no if you want to terminate EEP and then after you\u0027ve decided to authenticate the user somehow ask someone else whether or not they really should be authenticated that\u0027s more possible but I would say that\u0027s largely outside the scope of EEP and it can be possible and people do this today yes your certificates okay let me look you up in LDAP oh no your ex you know you\u0027re no longer allowed that\u0027s done today and I think whether or not that the LDAP or SQL or further approximant all fine and is compatible with this so the key hierarchies changed TLS 103 replaces this set a random function used in earlier versions are slightly different in OneNote one and one not to vanity completely replaces it with HK DF and also completely changes how keys are derived era Pinkas specification is needed to avoid normally interoperable implementations this year in this draft is to use the TLS exporter which is what the function TLS 103 has made exactly for this use case this is what quick is using and it\u0027s very simple and then all the other these are basically three things you need none all the other each specific things can be derived exactly as in ETS rc5 t16 fragmentation so this there was a lot of this quite a lot of discussion on the list regarding fragmentation and the problem that some some nodes cut off the communication after 3040 packages so i added quite a lengthy section to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "draft to explain things that can be done done to avoid where at least limit fragmentation reduce the number of packages and this has become easier with TLS 103 them my two tenses that could probably be split out into a separate document cuz we probably do want recommendations for earlier versions of TLS and as my message on the mailing list said right I mean you can bloat certificates at with names addresses groups Oh IDs and that\u0027s completely independent of any of this but there should be recommendations separate from 1.2 and earlier from 1.3 mohit so my initial feeling was 1.3 recommendation stay here and anything before 1.3 so for what\u0027s already deployed should be a separate document of these I think so let\u0027s go through them I think what one thing is to use mechanism to get the certs all certificates changed as small as possible you can use ECC you can of course you can use less less number of CAS and subsea as per that probably have a architecture that you want to use you can one number that takes quite a lot in song certificate it\u0027s subjective alternative names if you have fifty or hundreds of these they take a large amount of space and these are all general would apply for any version of TLS then you can use mekinese to reduce the sizes of the certificate messages one thing that you can do in here less is to meet certificates that you know that other end point a knows about or has access to and see less one or two and earlier you can only omit omit the top self signed root CA in TLS 103 you can omit any trust anchor basically everything except the service own certificate so that still s103 specific then you can should use the cached information extension that\u0027s for all version of TLS and then you can use extensions to reducing the size of certificates with compression there\u0027s this is not an RFC yet there is work in progress in a TLS working group and this is TLS 103 specific i think the idea to move this out into a separate is very good some other smaller changes who CSP handling in mono tree is a little bit different the UCSB information is and inside the certificates Status Messages instead this means that you can send UCSB "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "information for all certificates in the same TLS strengthens confidentiality change trains and cryptographic key negotiation so i made some slight updates to the security claim section that applies when you use TLS 103 and the Cypress suits are different today must and shoot in the earlier versions does not apply basically these services are not available so for this draft as they the current drought states that when you use TLS 1 or 3 you follow the recommendations a must in TLS wanna trick without changing anything and for our version of course it\u0027s or C 2 5 2 1 6 that applies mmm next so I think of the discussion on the list I think this draft is in a pretty good shape would like even more feedback and then of course implementations I we have at Arizona\u0027s not implemented at least yet we are discussing to start implementation of it it would be great if there was several implementation because just them against each other and then I think this should be adopted as a working group item ok how many folks in this room have read the draft ok quite a few does anybody have reasons why we shouldn\u0027t adopt this draft ok so we\u0027ll we\u0027ll take it to the list but I think we\u0027ll will do that and certainly we have a fair amount of people reading the draft but getting more reviewers would always be good and we can also discuss I think splitting it out I I think does anybody feel we have to resolve the splitting out issue beforehand I think that\u0027s something we can do in the working group displaying out the certificate handling or the fragmentation ok thank you Thanks think I think next on the agenda we had yari okay so I\u0027m gonna talk about two drafts one is sort of a bug fix and you know I accommodate some new situations that existing methods need to deal with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "another one is a real new piece of functionality as well small piece of functionality to to enhance something next slide and I mean just as a background many of you are probably aware of this I\u0027ll just briefly covered that but we obviously had lots of work on EAP in you know back in the early 2000s or so and since then not much has happened in terms of specifications but there\u0027s been lots of deployment and you know some of the users I think the implementations of some of these technologies are in the billions in terms of you know existing smartphone clients and such uses usage you know maybe not is at that quite at that level but but fairly large nevertheless and the thing that you know in the in the past how these things were used for the EAP seem an EAP aka type of indication the idea was that you could use operator authentication infrastructure but you would still come in through like it when you would connect through Wireless land and then he would use EAP and authenticate the same or EAP aka and then if you came through for G for instance you would authenticate with and you know native mechanisms in in the 4G you interface protocol and that\u0027s not EA P but in 5g this is going to change so they will or they plan to allow both EAP and and this or older you know direct plane type of SIM card out indication on on the ue interface so when you\u0027re coming into 5g network you could authenticate directly with EAP and obviously to support the APA ké prime which is that default mechanism there but also potentially other other things like EAP TLS and and so forth so that that\u0027s kind of the motivation of like what you know why are we talking about this this topic today at all so that that\u0027s why it\u0027s important that we make sure that technology actually works in today\u0027s situation we fix bugs and and and so on next slide so this first draft the RFC 54 for a Biss is an update to EAP aka prime and if you recall so APA ké was was the treaty application protocol and it was enhanced with this in this prime version in 54 48 2008 I think he came out and basically the the idea there was that this provides better binding to some of the parameters of the conduct that the authentication is happening in and and and the draft that I have written with my colleagues it\u0027s a small update of of this APA ké Prime they are boxing the current specification things that we missed at the ITF at the time or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "specifying some behavior for situations that were not covered by by the old old specs and and this a 0-0 version that was briefly mentioned represented in in in the previous ITF the zero one version where we as we\u0027ve worked through you know this in in the you know in various places at the 3gpp and an ITF and and elsewhere we realized that there\u0027s a couple of other issues also then then the one that was in zero zero zero instance also only about the binding but this other stuff too and and the idea here is don\u0027t add any functionality tests make sure that it actually works you know as the method has has been defined in that requires a couple of tweaks or bug bug fixes but we could obviously update like security considerations when we learn and we\u0027ve certainly learned of attacks in the in the space of pervasive surveillance for instance that we could probably document here but but security conscious is fair game adding new new features I I thought would be bad for this this particular draft next slide so the three updates that are currently there and and since we have discovered a few it might be possible that you know that the list of three grows a little bit to four or five or something and I want to work with you guys to make sure that we got got everything so the the first is series this binding issue so the APA ké binds the application to to the produced keys so that you have some context information like weird we\u0027re doing this out indication for in a purpose blah and then this purpose blah is defined through a reference that the old RFC points the 3gpp spec that has a table that you know if you were doing wireless LAN out in the case and then do this and if you\u0027re doing something else didn\u0027t then do that and so forth and now they\u0027re adding essentially a new new entry into the table like 5g then do this and you know on its own this is like we\u0027re pointing to a particular verse and RFC points a particular version of the 3gpp spec and now a future version of that same in 3gpp spec it\u0027s gonna say something something different so you could you know perhaps if this was the only thing we could perhaps let it slide and not not update but I think it\u0027s actually a good practice to like if we have an actual interoperability issue this would result in an interoperability issue that people do can\u0027t talk to each other if they don\u0027t get the keys right so it\u0027s good to update specs when when something like that happens even if it\u0027s in a reference because it\u0027s so important piece here the other thing is kind of like a 5g 3gpp development that they used to have particular types of identifiers and now in the new architects they have added some new types so they have these temporary identifiers x\u0027 and they have more permanent identifies and they play "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:17",
    "text": "a different role than an identifier has previously did in in older systems or generations and and it\u0027s important the identifiers also goes into the key calculation so if they identify one side thinks that the identifier is a and the other side think it\u0027s B then that would be bad again so so we want to be absolutely clear that you shall use this ideas as the ID and there\u0027s a couple of different answers it could be the actual ID that you send on the EAP communications or it could be the corresponding permanent identity and this arguments either way but you know I\u0027ve I went to the 3gpp meeting once or twice and realized that oh they are actually discussing this like what would make sense here and so so I feel that the RFC actually needs to be updated to say what what\u0027s going on come on link a doc just you could consider using all of the IDS you know about if they\u0027re going to be known to all parties don\u0027t necessarily have to limit to just one that is true but I still want like exact same bits thing on both sides right and yeah so that\u0027s a clarifying thing I should also have mentioned that this like ongoing weren\u0027t working in in 3gpp about like their new authentication architecture and there\u0027s there\u0027s some appendix that has some text about EAP a K Prime and how it should behave in in 5g and then the appendix also says you know when the RFC is ready move this text to the RFC or let the RC specify this but but this is relatively urgent because they are actually doing this right now so I would like to get get moving with this particular graph and and the final thing is this session identifies which we\u0027ve discussed on the on the list that actually applies to multiple multiple methods EAP seaman a K and a K Prime so this particular draft actually fixes that for EAP a K prime as well yeah John Watson Erickson my update 2008 reference to release 15 reference wouldn\u0027t seems like we will get into the same thing when 660 is defined if it\u0027s is there any way to do this in a more generic way so that it\u0027s to future-proof that that\u0027s an excellent question and we should we should figure that I mean I think there are ways I mean we can refer to the spec or its future versions or whatever you know suitable language but but the question is what do we want like then then a future change of this nature that the table changes and keys will be different and and nothing in the RFC indicates that so if that\u0027s what we want we can make that happen but it might not be I\u0027m not saying what the right answer here is what I\u0027m just saying that this there\u0027s several answers and we should decide yeah I had a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "similar thought in him I\u0027m asking the question made me get up here I\u0027m Margaret Colin from painless security it one thing I think about is you know whether it makes sense for there to be an Ayana registry that when 3g updates things they put new values in something like that that we could refer to since that seems like a or if they have such a registry we could refer to that I don\u0027t know whether they have something like that but that seems to be the way we normally sell that sort of problem rather than updating the RFC over and over yeah I think that\u0027s that\u0027s also probably reasonable it still doesn\u0027t get us away from like somebody has to update like not normally when something like a new situation comes along somebody can send an attribute and we can just ignore it but this is very different because it actually goes into key calculation so we can\u0027t really ignore it we have to understand it and now somebody needs to signal us that oh this is a new thing new situation I looking back maybe I would have designed the protocol slightly differently that you would actually be explicitly signal somehow but that\u0027s not that\u0027s not how it was done okay I just think these are updates are not going to be that frequent like we don\u0027t expect sigchi anytime soon so we can live with updating the RFC expected very soon this is Alan again just one question about 0.3 from a strictly time this perspective it may also be interesting to just duplicate all those session identifiers in the session identifier document because that\u0027s really five paragraphs of text and implementations are depending on it now I mean it doesn\u0027t hurt to update the session identifier for aka Prime in two places if one goes out in three months the other goes out in a you know year and a half it might be easier for implementers yeah we can consider that thank you next slide so next steps where are we as I said I think this is fairly urgent like in you know I would like to get this done in couple of months it\u0027s not a lot of specification work just a few loose ends to take care of I would like to get this as a working group item as soon as possible like it you guys to tell us what what other things being missed and also I\u0027d like to work with 3gb people to figure out if they think we missed some and and and by the way there is some discussion going on because several people overlapping participation on that so so that that the coordination piece is probably under control but would be very helpful with others also participated margaret colony and it\u0027s been I don\u0027t know 15 years since I read a KA so I don\u0027t remember "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:17",
    "text": "what the security considerations say but I think whatever we end up in this document should be accurate based on the current way we assess these sort of things so I think you should update the security consideration section absolutely and I\u0027m and I\u0027m gonna take a wild guess that we are better now at writing security consideration sections or at least I hope so so how many folks have read this document not quite as many so I\u0027m not gonna ask if there are any objections since people haven\u0027t really read it but we\u0027ll we\u0027ll bring that up on the list as soon as we can because there\u0027s no it doesn\u0027t it seems like it should be pretty straightforward well I guess I will ask is there anybody who thinks there\u0027s something would object to taking this document in this room just so we can get it out if there is there okay so we\u0027ll take that to the list okay the other draft was actual new functionality and and it\u0027s optional functionality so perfect forward secrecy and the background for this is I mentioned in the previous ITF the issue is that there\u0027s been reported cases of intelligence agencies stealing large amounts of you know potentially like him or all the keys from a sim card manufacturer and then if they have those keys and there\u0027s no perfect forward secrecy that essentially at any time they can look at the traffic later and since this was discovered there\u0027s been obviously lots of concern about it and people have done stuff they\u0027ve taken care of security between the manufacturer and the operator better they\u0027ve improved their processes in manufacturing plans they you know tightened up everything possible but still I mean the opportunity for this remains I mean at the end of the day you can you know hand somebody a National Security Letter or something and and they\u0027ll have to comply so if we had some technical means of of dealing with this problem you\u0027ll begin next slide and so what we\u0027ve done here is essentially a set of tako EAP a KP FS is backwards compatible extension on top of EAP aka Prime that\u0027s a defilement exchange and then the output keys from EAP will now provide perfect forward secrecy and if there is a compromise of the previously described nature then then you know that that\u0027s still a bad thing but but if intelligence agency wants to use those keys and look at the traffic they actually have to be active attackers and it\u0027s just a severe factors so so that that\u0027s forcing them to do more and and that that\u0027s a good thing generally considered "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:17",
    "text": "a reasonable thing there\u0027s tons of details I don\u0027t go to that hopefully people can read the draft and and and look at the details it can probably be done in multiple different ways there\u0027s been some discussion in 3gpp about this I mean also about this doing it in EAP but also some other other approaches we think this is a reasonable approach given that you know if you cover TLS and PFS and cover EAP I can DFS you pretty much covered you know a very large fraction of all practical use cases for some of those networks and then there\u0027s some other other alternative designs where you do things in the local network minute and but the downside with those approaches is that then then whatever high quality Keys you get out of that they left in the local network whereas in some of these systems you won\u0027t actually want to have a terminal and the home network also disgusts with each other and using these high quality DFS protected keys and so it\u0027s possible with this this kind of design sort of backwards compatible fashion should mention that there\u0027s an IPR notice on this this draft probably also mentioned there was quite some I PR by somebody on on RFC 54:48 also and also should mention that this perfect forward secrecy thing is discussed in 3gpp but they have this two phases that\u0027s phase one which is like ongoing right now instead of Phoenix in five months or six months or something like that and then there\u0027s phase two and the perfect forward secrecy thing is in phase two that that\u0027s not something that they can do in in this time scale so if we complete this in in a reasonable fashion in in IETF or have some solution the idea for this then they could take use of that in in their next release not not the one that they\u0027re currently feverishly working on next slide so I\u0027m gonna argue here that it\u0027s important that we actually enhance our protocol to respond to this massive attacks by various organizations and there seems to be demand for this in the mobile industry so that\u0027s good an opportunity to do do things right so I because we like to argue this thing to come to the working group maybe a little with a little bit less urgency than the previous one that that one I really need done soon and and the coordination thing again is important and and ongoing that\u0027s it hey Aaron kebab l3 radius same as our own so there\u0027s a long-standing issue in EPA and EPA and the rest and that the department IDs are revealed the first time this up can authenticates Mayfair\u0027s appetite for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:19",
    "text": "sort of thing perfect forward secrecy and really sort of stopping state actors find out information about you mean is there any appetite in fixing that I\u0027m sorry I completely hear or understand that they said what are revealed in the ethnic is the IMSI number of the SIM card is okay yeah yeah there is and that that\u0027s the thing that I was on the previous presentation talking about that they have this temporary ID and then then the more permanent ID and now they\u0027re fixing that okay that\u0027s good John Watson so already in phase one it\u0027s now mandatory to support curb two five five one nine for encryption of your identity yeah yeah there\u0027s tons of details about that that fixed because the core of the core will still know who you are but but you know maybe people on the on you know elsewhere will not not learn it as easily as they did before and so how many folks have read this draft yeah one or two okay and so with the coordination with 3gpp it seems like they\u0027re still kind of you know settling towards an approach is how like do they have a timeline for this phase two and when they would decide that I think the Phase two is gonna finish a year from now okay I\u0027m getting that right but I mean I I I mean that\u0027s a general approach I don\u0027t think we get the IETF should like necessarily I mean we should respect people\u0027s timelines but we should do our own homework that we have a protocol are we gonna fix it for these in these reasons and then it\u0027s available for people to use if they so desire but if you know if they need something and we don\u0027t have something ready by that time then that could be a problem too yeah okay so I think well does anybody have any other comments on this draft I think we need some more discussion on the list and you know you didn\u0027t ask for adoption here or you do want to wait a bit on that to make it more or I thought I did ask for others just expressing a urgency difference between the previews and focus so then we can we can Q them up then okay all right we\u0027re cranking through the agenda here and I think Alan is next with session identifiers hopefully there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:20",
    "text": "should be pretty quick next one might need to get closer to the mic so there\u0027s the session ID just for recap defines that for the next slide it says they must define these things and people like to ignore musts so if we go to the next one each session ID has not been defined for fast reification for sim and aka and no session ID derivation was defined for a K Prime or peep the Charter could probably be updated to add a peep if we care I\u0027ve gone through a bunch of the other eat RFC\u0027s they all look okay but it wouldn\u0027t hurt to double-check that the next slide the TLS based eat methods don\u0027t have this problem the cache the TLS information you can always derive the session IDs for reification non TLS eat methods require different things so this is I suspect why it was missed I wouldn\u0027t be surprised if a lot of the vendor specific eat methods have similar problems but is there their issue to fix specifically this is needed for ERP and fills for I Triple E 802 11 AI next slide so this is the proposal based on your knees comments to the mailing list EEP aka aka prime sim and peep and that\u0027s really the bulk of the content of the document with some paragraphs around it but are not about one way that you might consider fixing this in the future was if there was an Ayane registry then basically Ayane would have checked all these documents for the allocations and made sure they didn\u0027t miss them so that so that might be something to consider as having this document establish a registry populated with all that stuff and then the good folks at Ayana will check you know going forward so you not to do this again like in for another five years oh they yeah I think some of these were published before we did the session ID I think maybe or I think a K and sim but yeah and somewhere after by next slide so specifically this will update fifty to forty seven four and eight six four nine eight seven five four four five two four seven um I suspect based on my earlier comment for a KA prime it doesn\u0027t hurt to put the text in this document and I think it published at the same time we can just delete it from this document and if they ke Prime starts being contentious then next leg any questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:23",
    "text": "hopefully barring Ayana registry updates this thing really should be a couple of pages I didn\u0027t have time to get it done before ITF but I\u0027ll get it done next week and if there\u0027s no IANA registry updates it could be published effective immediately so long as people review it and like it if there are ini update registries or an registry updates that will take a little longer I suspect okay so we\u0027ll be waiting on a draft I don\u0027t know if anybody did anybody want to discuss the issue of whether the aka Prime things should go in this draft or not or do we just wait and see how things progress okay well just wait and see oh I think this means did I not oh here we go all right Elia has some questions for us he\u0027s gonna probably tell us a little bit about this brewski thing hi I\u0027m not as tall as that okay so I\u0027m Eliot leer I\u0027ve been working on onboarding of little things some sometimes big things with a bunch of people who are in the room and so we\u0027ve been most of our stuff we\u0027ve been focusing on in either ops area working group or in the animal working group and it\u0027s all about a lot of us about trusted introduction and figuring out what this thing is and how are supposed to protected from the network perspective next likely so I\u0027m sort of new to EEP okay that\u0027s to say I\u0027ll admit it I know very little so I figured I\u0027d come to the experts as we begin to sort out some more problems and there\u0027s not even a draft yet for you know in terms of a specification but we\u0027re beginning to sort ourselves in terms trying to figure out not only the problems face book closer to the solution space next slide so that\u0027s my way of saying be gentle so we have this fundamental problem we\u0027ve actually done fair amount of work for Wired and can onboard devices that there\u0027s a person who\u0027s not in a room actually of Michael Richardson who\u0027s been leading a lot of work in the animal working group to basically do a trusted introduction between a device and a local deployment where the device or what you might call to eat peer has a very limited ability to retain things like a certificate store a trust root store maybe they have one or two or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:24",
    "text": "three sir space one or two or three sorts at most they certainly don\u0027t have anything like what you\u0027d find in a browser okay they just don\u0027t have the space for that and to give you an idea about arguments with people over you know using five to eighty bytes you know and on processor capabilities that that range all the way down to an eighty eighty six or a z80 so you threw out that z80 book already right guess what it\u0027s all back so we sort of sorted us as I mentioned for wireless but for for wired but for wireless we have a couple of problems only some of which are this organization\u0027s issue and it\u0027s really goes like this we\u0027ve divined this wonderful flow that says you know let\u0027s do this little dance with nice little restful interface between the device and the local deployment which we call a registrar here and the local deployment and the manufacturer which isn\u0027t a somewhat optional step to say let\u0027s let that manufacturer do a trust and introduction for the device and then the local deployment this really nice and of course to do that little dance you sort of have to have some connectivity to the device but if you\u0027re on a wireless network within 802 11 network you have a very limited connectivity and probably no IP connectivity until you have credentials so it\u0027s a little bit of a chicken and egg problem and so we\u0027re trying to sort out to break out from the chicken and egg problem and there are a couple different ways to do this that we\u0027re sort of exploring and there\u0027s a draft and I\u0027ll point get it later so just mentioned you know what the problem space looks like and so 802 11 you for instance has a AMQP extension which essentially says here here\u0027s some TL B\u0027s you guys can talk and some structured way before you actually do a communication and actually there\u0027s something similar you know in terms of doing network identifications the 82 to 11 AQ we\u0027re not entirely thrilled with that either as it turns out the we\u0027re pondering using t p-- to do this which is why i\u0027m here and just to get at least to get the to identify the right network we\u0027re thinking of doing something with device provisioning protocol which is work being done on Wi-Fi Alliance again that\u0027s not something we have to worry about here and we we are pondering the use case where you know you have an ETL s based mechanism and maybe you have other eep methods as well and we\u0027re not really far along with other methods but we started with an ETL s use case next slide please so here\u0027s my understanding of teef you have sort of an outer TLS communication this work that many that was probably done in this working group you have an outer TLS which you can defer the authentication endpoints until until just before your you\u0027re ready to send "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:25",
    "text": "back and each success you have something of an inner and you can use all these lovely methods inside that that nice wrapping which we like you have an est like enrollment mechanism and you have a ability to get back trusted server routes this is all good stuff one thing you just lack is this trust instruction so we want to do an extension for it for the trust interaction next slide please so now anima is that trusted instruction I think I\u0027ve probably covered everything in this in this latter right so the basic idea is you want to end up in an in-state at an end state where the client has at least one trusted element in a local deployment that it can retrieve more information from where had had no contact with the truck with the initial deployment already and you know don\u0027t think laptop think lightbulb when you\u0027re when you\u0027re pondering this problem okay there\u0027s no user interface on the device at all next slide please so in in exploring T right some of the things that we\u0027ve been looking at is actually t p-- says you can roll in eat methods underneath there\u0027s a nice little TLB defined for that this is nice because it\u0027s very clear how you do an intermediate or an intermediate result in fact there\u0027s a example given in RFC 7170 of exactly how to do that well goody I could just do that on the other hand if you create a new eat method that means it\u0027s you know some of you might get this misguided idea that you should do the new eat method without the outer layer protection that tea provides and then they have a choice they can either do an additional outer later layer for themselves or worse they don\u0027t do anything and you end up with some weird exposure in a vendor method that poses some small problems on the other hand we can create new TLDs and this guarantees that the things only used with teeth right so you get the outer layer protection but there\u0027s a little bit of confusion that we have maybe it\u0027s not in the draft maybe it\u0027s Justin Eliot\u0027s head and other people\u0027s heads as to how to do the intermediate results with with a method next slide please so to give you an idea of sort of the sample flow and this is just a sample and it\u0027s incomplete that we\u0027re thinking about right and yeah this is an eye chart you know you go through you do your nice little hollows and so at some point right you come to determine that maybe you actually need to get a deployment cert and if you don\u0027t you can skip this part and if you can go right to say each success right if you like that if you if you know the if you have a local deployment route cert and but the the server says who you might need to re-enroll maybe you skip the the brewski stuff but otherwise we define "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:25",
    "text": "essentially a new method that we\u0027re currently thinking about in terms of teep to essentially do a voucher request which this is an anima construct that um there are several different drafts to do this and then a voucher response all right at which point you then go on to do a local registration using the nice little mechanisms that are already in a teep so all you want to do is at this point is a pretty small extension or what we think is a pretty small extension who knows if we\u0027re right about that next slide please okay so I mentioned there was a draft there\u0027s a draft and so we\u0027ve defined a bit of a problem statement and you know we look at a bunch of different methods and so we\u0027re seeking it\u0027s a seeing we\u0027re seeking district discussion about what\u0027s the best way forward now so put this in a little bit of context we have really good technical people in this room and we want to start here but the overall solution probably has to deal with a pre broad base of characters like the people who make the light bulbs or the people who do these little devices here that look like the the smoke detectors or things like that or the monitor so it\u0027s a pretty broad problem that we have to think about from an industry perspective and so we want to take a you know reasonably deliver it and and try and figure out the right thing one question we have is whether teep is actually a useful tool here it looks nice okay the document the mechanisms that are provided look really good the problem is there\u0027s not a lot of adoption and as Alan pointed out in the ops area working group and that does concern us and just so you know Alan like I did these slides before you said that okay and so we\u0027re concerned about that yeah there\u0027s this this is Alan my two senses EEP is probably the right mechanism as you\u0027re saying 5g is moving to EEP and said don\u0027t invent your own thing some TLS based method is probably the right thing inventing your own crypto is is evil and wrong right I would probably argue that it\u0027s better to do it with teep and just sort of push people to use that than to try to patch one of the other eaton methods teep isn\u0027t that complicated and you know suck it up people get it done yeah I mean it sort of looks like it smells right yeah bro I think the thing to think about is kind of all the dependencies for all the use cases and you know the environments you think of this using it will like a VAP or they not or is it like a consumer light bulb you\u0027re selling to somebody a grandmother or something so that\u0027s probably the more pertinent question to just figure out what you\u0027re likely to have in your kind of environment yeah um it doesn\u0027t actually say it on my badge but I work at Cisco and our focus is primarily on an enterprise use they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:27",
    "text": "will be in that so it\u0027s definitely in in the e territory but as I mentioned in the beginning right we also want to we also want to have answers for the of the other use cases but maybe that\u0027s not me bitch right that you know if you look at a light bulb on the way things happen or like the ring doorbells a perfect example right they create their own APs and such and and then you you can just on board in a consumer way like that but you know one of the area directors was frustrated in his own house he\u0027s having difficulty with with all this stuff because he\u0027s got a lot of equipment yeah this is Alan again not having you know manufactured lightbulbs or anything but doing security my my to sentence would be suck it up right this is how we know to do it right anything else is very likely to be wrong and if they don\u0027t have enough CPU you probably shouldn\u0027t be on the net right if you can\u0027t if you can\u0027t do this kind of stuff securely unless someone\u0027s going to come up with a zero CPU TLS you know encryption whatever TLS method then we don\u0027t know how to do it right other than this so just just to give you a little flavor for their constraints when I talk to partners about this what they say what they\u0027re aiming for is they don\u0027t they want to minimize the amount of code that they can\u0027t reuse so they are they\u0027re looking at DTLS for instance and so there\u0027s a TLS stack that\u0027s they\u0027re probably aiming at so we can probably do something in that space the more heavy the heavier it is the heavier the anima part is the heavier the e part is that stuff since that code is only used on onboarding and probably like you know these guys probably all on all the time at least at that level right yeah you do like an authentication a month or something like that or an authentication every couple of months whenever the power goes out in a room or something like that you know then they get thinking they get a little bit antsy because the you know that\u0027s code that they they only had to use this much and took up this much space and that\u0027s something we can\u0027t solve for them and we\u0027re not gonna try to solve it here to be clear okay he really is tall Nancy Kim wins it uh so so just to add on so fully agree which is why Elliott is mentioning tea so I\u0027m also Francisco been working with Elliott on this so I was just going to add the motivation for why EAP is as we\u0027re onboarding this it\u0027s not just the enterprise but trying to leverage the fact that we\u0027re onboarding on a wireless medium that being Wi-Fi so it became natural that if we\u0027re gonna do Wi-Fi there\u0027s already the definition of using Dominic\u0027s and therefore EAP the addition that we have in here I just wanted to add to what Elliott is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:28",
    "text": "mentioning is when you look at brewski the thing that brewski is adding is that voucher request response ergo EAP has a request response so a natural place and that\u0027s the question mark for the group is we could add in to keep the specification for doing that voucher request and we may in turn it on is it a separate EAP method likely not if we can do it with an EAP the other question is when being an author of t p-- right the messages that we put in there for the certificate enrollment is just for that where as EST is broader ergo the question of when we do the full and and encourage you to look at the brewski is whether we need to extend the t p-- to do what EST really does or just reference EST which then gets to the question of channel blending Margaret Margaret : again I I actually have a couple questions I didn\u0027t author teeth or run the eat working group or implement free radius so you know and trouble understanding a picture why don\u0027t you go back to the picture because I\u0027m wondering you get this thing and you go we might say yes from here or we might go to the master server now is that an inner method that\u0027s gonna do some sort of communication with the master server okay time to deep dive and by the way the person behind you can really deep dive just you know I mean I did look at it on my phone before this meeting and I didn\u0027t understand it then either so I\u0027m not going to again I\u0027m not I\u0027m not the expert on teep either which is why I came to you guys so I\u0027m gonna give you my best interpretation everybody you know can get up and say oh that\u0027s wrong but and I\u0027ll happily take that right so we start out we do the normal eat dance with ETLs that this is there I should say teep dance here right this is where we\u0027re starting in this discussion so you have a client hello a server hello and so there\u0027s a decision point actually up here it\u0027s not it should be down here should be up here if the client and the and I think these might actually be reversed if I\u0027m looking at this correctly if the client and server know each other then in your code path the server\u0027s the server has the ability I think at that point to just send back each successive life is good all right and then you can just bypass all this other stuff if the server has some reason to not send a neat success to each success there could be two reasons for that one is that it doesn\u0027t recognize anything from the client then it could it could then say okay continue down the flow and it could also it could do and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:29",
    "text": "it does this with essentially the record each request frames and so that\u0027s our our understanding of logic behind that and so that\u0027s where you get branching in this context does that explain things a little bit I mean I I sort of said this is the case the first time you come on and and there\u0027s no caching and there\u0027s no anything what I\u0027m not getting is the part where the request goes to the master server right so you\u0027ve got a triple-a server and the d\u0027herblay server is talking to you right but it this point is the triple a server are going to do some like on the inner tunnel gonna do a request the master server that the triple a server gets an answer to and then answers you based on it or is the request forward in some way where the massive server now talks to the client yeah I don\u0027t have the full picture here that\u0027s sort of intentional yeah I mean because otherwise it gets really messy because your channel by any question becomes very complicated if you\u0027re gonna change who you\u0027re talking to and I\u0027m so you\u0027re oh you\u0027re always talking to the authentication server okay the authentication server is going to forward a request on your behalf to this thing called a massive server and then it\u0027s going to respond and that request itself is signed by the massive server in such a way that the peer will recognize the signature for authorization and authentication for this purpose so you have sort of a almost a degenerate tunnel there where the signatures are effectively creating a bit of a tunnel to the massive server yes person who designed all that is right behind you okay no I\u0027m just I wanted to I tried to understand this and I couldn\u0027t then so now I think I\u0027m starting to get what you\u0027re what you\u0027re talking I apologize for the abbreviated flow here I would recommend figure one from the burski draft which should align in your head pretty quickly if not I\u0027m happy to talk about it further I\u0027m sorry this Mac\u0027s pretty good we might have moved on a little bit but I wanted to address the question around bringing brewski into this space as opposed to other use cases and the anime yes case is around the broader context of autonomic networking so those kind of network devices and how they would be set up and worked together the ACE working group is taking that and moving it into constrained space so they\u0027re doing some of the definitions to move a voucher the the blob that we\u0027re talking about that\u0027s signed they asked me got from the master server they\u0027re doing work to convert that into a format that\u0027s better for constrained environments which would also work a little bit better because it\u0027s a cozy based etc would be a little bit better for within the flows maybe as opposed to the the broader CMS message signing mechanism so what we\u0027re really addressing here is just the use cases of where you have eat in network access control which is the wireless and other space 82 11 yeah yeah exactly exactly so and so to just to come back to sort of the questions right you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:31",
    "text": "we don\u0027t I think Alan answered in you know relatively assertive way yeah eat it and do teep and that\u0027s where my head is because if if you don\u0027t do that we\u0027re gonna recreate something that looks an awful lot like teeth is my concern though perhaps with a little bit of you know if we create a method it could be a little bit of Jose Jose glue you know magic pixie dust instead of instead of what\u0027s there today and maybe that\u0027s the right thing to do because we might be able to leverage what ace people are doing with their flows at which point we do have to toss away teep but that\u0027s a whole lot more work than I want to do and I want to make it clear that I am a fundamentally lazy person so I prefer to use other people\u0027s code and not have to wait for it so I\u0027m lazy and demanding in that regard so then the next question that Nancy address right is it\u0027s sort of a two sets of questions first of all we have this very this one message that\u0027s available to us in e teep to do enrollment the question is do we want to break out and start and take a better look at est to see if there are other messages that are necessary or should we break out of the should we do some sort of each success and then break into and and have devices end up in a sandbox environment which sounds a lot more complex there are all sorts of different possibilities that we we could traverse here but one of the reasons we like eat-in in terms of doing all this is the client stack component that deals with it is relatively compartmentalized and you don\u0027t pop an interface up at an l-3 level then BOP it down and then pop it up again based on your provisioning state which might confuse upper layer applications which is something that we\u0027re a little bit concerned about so again that it demonstrates the full value of e and then of course the other thing we\u0027re thinking once you\u0027re up and running you you might not want to wait for an e p-- transactions to each transaction to do you read almond and the Registrar is supposed to be available for this purpose but you might not know the IP address of the registrar because this would would abstract that out from you whereas it\u0027s available it\u0027s discovered in the animal use case in other ways so that\u0027s some thinking that that needs to be done in terms of in terms of that and there are other aspects here too which is that um we have constantly thought about ways in the animal working group to me where you might want to piggyback additional information back to that what we call here the pier such as a good example in in the constraining space is that people are looking for a co-op resource directory how would happen we passed back you know one or two bits of information that might be useful to the client in this context and this relates also just because you know I I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:31",
    "text": "broadly they\u0027re not necessarily deeply on these things we\u0027re also looking at the work being done in the THC working group which is looking to do yang models for all of the DHCP options and some of those we might want to pass back as well in this process there\u0027s limitations to that because some of that information is very very localized to a particular network that a triple-a server might not even have it access to so we have to be particular about that but these are the some of the some of the things that were pondering and so that leads to the next question as we\u0027re going through all this a particularly mysterious thing to me is channel binding and so we\u0027re I just heard I heard that I\u0027m gonna repeat what Jim said that\u0027s gonna be a pain when has it ever not been it\u0027s my question so um anyway I have just one question for the for the group left over which is is this something that you would be interested in working with me off I have one other comment before that question or I mean you can ask the question but I it\u0027s not about that question which is that you said the possibility of doing something where you do eat and you get limited access and then you just mother protocol and I know that sounds complicated it also has the advantage of being nicely incrementally deployable that you could go into a corporate network some group wants to do this they plop up their server they run their devices and they don\u0027t have to get the e p-- infrastructure all of the access points and access controllers and stuff updated and if you don\u0027t do it that way then you have the problem that you\u0027ve either got to run other wireless access points in order to do incremental deployment which most employers would not be pleased by or you\u0027ve got to somehow get your your corporation to update the infrastructure before you can use this and I wonder what you thought about that yes so I won\u0027t speak for other vendors cisco has a notion which I\u0027m sure others do called Mac authenticated bypass which essentially allows for these sorts of incremental deployment so you have devices that maybe don\u0027t understand eeep maybe that you maybe you have to learn them in other ways learn about them in other ways and that\u0027s just one example where yeah you might end up getting sandboxed initially and then you do have to deal with these things and Max is going to I\u0027m sure going to talk that wasn\u0027t actually what my point my point was that you\u0027re gonna make these devices and they do understand it but you\u0027re gonna expect these EEP extensions in order to get onto the network and if I just walked into a Cisco office today these things not being defined those wireless access points don\u0027t have those EEP extensions so I could get do the beginnings of eat but then I couldn\u0027t actually get on the network okay and wouldn\u0027t those extensions go in the triple a I mean the triple a is is where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:31",
    "text": "each terminates not in the access point there\u0027s a question whether you\u0027ve got to get the corporate network to update their Triple A infrastructure or whether you could put a server up on the network get in and just have them put that server on the same VLAN where they\u0027re giving you sandbox access if you come in as one of these devices and I don\u0027t know which of those is better it was just my my comments it\u0027s a fair comment you know and I\u0027m not even gonna I\u0027m not even begin to say I have a good answer for it right we\u0027re just getting going yeah max per token continuing that conversation I wonder about the if we put it on to a quarantine VLAN how does the device know that it\u0027s in the wrong spot and no to try other SS IDs and roll forward and maybe a more structure around whether or not the method succeeds or fails because it got the right stuff or didn\u0027t or didn\u0027t have the right extensions might make it that process failover faster to find the right spot it\u0027s supposed to be yet so just so that we\u0027re clear right my understanding of eath is that one of the nice things about it is you have a way to send a soft fail in the protocol and where the server can then try other things and I suspect we\u0027ll see some of that at work here but we might I\u0027m not and I don\u0027t know how far we\u0027ll have to go in a specification on that front yeah so this is this is quite interesting in an interesting problem space certainly what\u0027s your about all the technical details but me neither but one comment that I would provide is that at least in my experience it\u0027s it\u0027s often useful to keep sort of the EAP to do the thing that it was originally designed to do to authenticate in various different ways and then use other other mechanisms for delivering configuration information and now I mean that that\u0027s my experience and that\u0027s that would be my advice I realized that people don\u0027t always listen to my advice and then this soon we are people who\u0027ve done not you know not followed this particular advice so and they\u0027re like right now there\u0027s some people somewhere else we\u0027re doing something exactly against that advice but that I III would you know rather see a sort of a clean stack in in some sense I mean enrollment is fine but but like this configuration of various other other things maybe not the right place so I think there\u0027s thank you re I the the key thing I just want to bring out they\u0027re that use case is really really it\u0027s hitting us hard in a couple of different deployments where the you don\u0027t have DNS in some of these spaces you yet you do have a little bit of efis business as it were and so that people are looking and what they\u0027re using instead of DNS for planning use instead of DNS is really the coop resource directory and to locate various devices "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:32",
    "text": "until they need one little hook and but of course once you say one little hook everybody has their own one little hook they want to find and so we this could grow into a monster and that would be the thing that I would be concerned about and when I mentioned DHCP that\u0027s just the monster you were thinking about I\u0027m sure there are more nodes on the network that just want to find the DNS and an NTP server they want to find a co-op directory we\u0027ve never let them put those things in here so yah react so yeah there\u0027s some tons of ways of discovering stuff you know multicast address saying and you know I\u0027ve done some work on co-op resource directories and and that\u0027s not I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a intractable problem also in other other ways okay and and and and the the other comment I would make is that like this we see this a lot like you know we can\u0027t have DNS we can\u0027t have this or that but then we also do certificates and and certificate chains and it\u0027s it\u0027s a little funny because people think it\u0027s important you know in different use cases right but let me take as the conclusion from this discussion when that comes up is that these are not the droids you are looking for when we talk about e ok yeah I think the other thing you might want is to have all that other stuff work on a network that isn\u0027t a neat network and that\u0027s you know so that\u0027s the other thing you want to take into account night I\u0027m interested in this and I at least like to follow it regarding your question of work and would review stuff I don\u0027t have resources to implement or anything well and so again I think we\u0027re thank you Joe and group for so much time by the way for this I really appreciate it I think I like the idea of scoping it down just that much because it keeps us from boiling the ocean and so I really do appreciate the advice well I want to just close with is just to point out that my co-conspirator is sitting there in the back Owen field who\u0027s right behind Alan and right in front of Alan is Brian Weiss who gets suckered into implementing a bunch of this stuff too and of course Nancy so we\u0027re all trying to all of us are trying to figure this out working with different partners and this will have to be an industry solution it can\u0027t be a and a broad industry solution be going beyond the IETF so there\u0027s a fair amount of uphill lifting here if we take this approach whatever approach we take there\u0027ll be uphill lifting for all of this and we have to also work with I think probably the I Triple E in this space to figure out the other problem which is how do I choose what network to join in a NATO loop 802 11 cents I don\u0027t think they\u0027re quite done they\u0027re quite frankly and I\u0027ll just point out also we also give one more pit of credit I\u0027d like to thank Dan Harkins who also gave a lot of comment on this topic as well as he was gone for Dorothy Stanley Hewlett Packard Enterprise to your less "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:32",
    "text": "comment Eliot about the work in dot 11 not being quite done from a discovery point of view I would be and I I think the dead 11 working group would be delighted to hear your comments in that regard and I would encourage you to put together a presentation and bring that to down 11 to describe the use cases that you\u0027re looking at that are not completely addressed I\u0027m going to sucker him to do that because he already goes to 802 I don\u0027t know who him that was but or we have we have some people who do that but yeah I think it\u0027s a fair point I can\u0027t just throw darts but I\u0027m actually so pleased younger common by the way I do appreciate how they have done like like a queue as I mentioned and the of course you know the Wi-Fi Alliance is work with DBP which i think is direct yeah which dan has done a lot of work on okay so yeah I think you know that there sounds like there\u0027s some interesting discussion that could happen I think certainly paring down or compartmentalizing what you want to do like perhaps working on enrollment or improving their enrollment in there would be a good thing but I think you guys need to we need to kind of figure out what\u0027s the right direction here for this sort of thing so take having taken this input it\u0027s now up to us to actually put out a draft because otherwise we will continue to speak in generalities and and who likes that so if you\u0027re interested in taking part of that effort drop one or me an email and we\u0027re particularly you know additional advice on channel binding always welcome because as Jim said before he left it\u0027s a pain where it\u0027s going to be a pain okay thanks very much for your time all right does anybody else have any other things they want to discuss with respect to EMU today if not you can have some time back all right we are adjourned and if I could have the blue sheets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:39",
    "text": "there was eat and then members II move and then there is no anymore "
  }
]