[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "oh okay i think that the right time we should get started so welcome everyone to itf week um you've got me kirsten playing one of the co-chairs for dispatch joining virtually and um we've got murray sitting at the front as a physical presence if you have any issues on site at all and you might notice we've got a change of co-chair so just to say thanks to patrick mcmanus for his great stewardship and chairship of dispatch over the years and really grateful for all the contributions he's made and replacing him we have peng shuping if you'd like to just say hi paying introduce yourself i'll be awesome thank you there we go all right so bear with us because it's always the first session and dispatch so we always have a bit of fun working out how the technology is working and how the sessions are going to work and so we'll just run through a couple of admin points before we get started so i'm really sorry not to be joining you in person um but while i'm here virtually let me just remind you of the note well this is probably the first time you've seen it this week so it's a reminder of the ietf policies that govern your participation and please make sure that you've read all of these you would have said at registration that you would do so in particular take note of all the kind of patent policies and general code of conduct and anti-harassment procedures as well as the way the ietf works if you have any issues contact the ombudsman team and just to say that these are places for professional collaboration and networking there are some um extensive"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "documentations that talk about the way that you should be behaving at these meetings and if you have any concerns at all once again please talk to the ombudsman team it's important that we uh create a good environment so everyone can bring their best work and bring their best selves to these kind of technical discussions that we're having um so please reach out um to the ombudsman team or anyone around you that you trust if you experience any difficulties or offensive behavior so hybrid meeting participation and i think we're all still getting used to it perhaps you're well seasoned by now but if not please bear with just while we run through this because it is the first session of the week so a lot of stuff um might seem new or has changed since last time so to the folks in the room and please make sure that you've signed into the session using the meet echo light client there's a nice circle there to show you exactly the button to join it's really important to join that because that um creates the blue sheets but also it's how i'm going to call the queue so if you stand in the room at the mic but you have not joined the queue on the meet echo light client then i will not be calling you in to the queue so do make sure that you have joined the mike mq on meet echo we're asking you to keep your audio and video off if you're a fully remote participant or if you're on the on-site version as well and please use a headset so i can see that we've um got someone stood up at the mic but possibly not joined on the meat echo client so i'm about to break my own rule just as an exception what's up testing testing okay what's the user user um so i i actually can't join the meet echo it's not joining it just gives you an error when you try and join or log in and says not authorized and several people are having this problem so how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "would you like to proceed okay i can see mira is just joined to the queue mira do you have a response for that i think she's just testing i was just testing so colin if you want to join just i can click for you i don't know okay well this is exactly why we have murray at the back up in the room so perhaps yeah in this thing if it's helpful if someone comes up to the mic because they can't join i'll type it in the jabber and you can manually manage it super yeah let's manage it that way for now um so we'll hopefully those issues will be resolved by the end of the week but uh i can see everyone joining the queue now yep um save albana did you want to make a comment i can't oh yeah here we go hello hello hello yeah i'm making a comment now i'm gonna leave the queue okay thanks so um i think it's if it works for you then that would be the ideal way to join the queue if not um like we said just in person in the meeting and we'll manage it by murray and this is why we have our resilience strategies it should be resolved soon so anyway try and bear in mind for the other meeting um sessions that you have this is the way we would like you to join the queue thanks colin for bringing it um into the meeting i do love having the first meeting of the of the week it's very enjoyable um okay so just so you all know this session is being recorded um it's very important that you know that this goes on youtube afterwards so just make sure anything you say you're happy for it to be recorded and published that way you can find all the agenda for the whole week at that link there's also meat echo and other information if you have any technical issues please do see the reporting issues page and all the meeting and notes and slides and everything you might need will be on the dispatch page uh there's also jabber and tulip that you can give a go as well for this um this session"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "okay i think we've got someone else in the queue jury did you have a comment about the setup uh no sorry sorry okay no worries that's okay we're gonna have these kind of teething issues that's why again it's the joy of being the first session of the week so into the dispatch hybrid meeting giving myself a healthy four minutes just to run through the agenda and take any agenda bash comments so you can see that we've got a bit of flex time today and but we have five presentations flashing between either 20 minutes or 10 minutes for various items um and then we have the art area session going on after that which is why murray is at the front and has to say that this whole session sorry murray just for the kind of appendage bit to give updates from the arts area so we just paused here so there's any agenda bashing keeping a beady eye on the queue in the room and on the techo jonathan rosenberg hello uh jonathan rosenberg five nine uh it's not on the agenda and i don't think we'll have time but i submitted a draft called spin there's been a lot of discussion on the list if we don't get to it here i do want to let people know there's a mimi buff today that's one of the side meetings so we'll try and do some discussion there and i do ask if there's any time at the end left over anyone interested like to discuss this topic thank you it's we do mention it during the upcoming meeting stuff great thank you jonathan okay any other comments before we dive right in um first on the presentation slides it's binary application record encoding from jury and we have got in the notes and the links to the slides links to existing messages and discussions otherwise we'll just invite him to come up and present hello so it's up to me i think hi yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "jerry would you like me to drive the slides for you or would you like to do them yourself if you can i don't know how to do that in each system so i'm sorry okay no that's okay that's all give me a second yeah so uh hello everyone uh my name is siri lasak and i will present binary application record encoding or shortcut please next so the first what is bare it's a message encoding this is binary it scores data into the binary uh that are then used to store these data on or transmit these data the original author is through the valve the main contributor of the updates is victorian erwinger and i do connect all these uh awesome contributions into uh together and uh now presenting and trying to standardize this uh this protocol yes next please so uh what are the goals of parents well first concise messages then the schema this is well defined and and so the broad compatibility programming environments well i guess that all the encodings are trying to do this and the important thing is the simplicity of implementation next please so the use cases for bare where well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "in the internet of uh services or internet of things or these applications the communications the communication is really important so you need some protocol to communicate these these messages there are plenty of these communications encodings and so on the bare as we saw in the goals has concise messages simply uh simplicity of implementation and is used to communicate between these web services or communicate between the the internet of things devices or to store some uh some tokens uh into the into file systems and and uh so on so this is some use cases of of the bare uh encoding please next yes well so this was in short introduction what is bare and how it can be used and now uh i would like to present some some feedback in the dispatch mailing list up to today i haven't read the the feedback that was sent today so i'm sorry about that and the first uh was the comparison into cb or r o r uh concise binary object representation well regarding this question i would like to say that the cbor uh is based on json which is itself the text based uh and the main difference between cbor and bara in my opinion is that cbo r contains the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "schema because it has the legacy of json format and try trying to be compatible or json in binary world then these are kind of different in this specific things this is the main difference i would say the uh there are more differences but this one is the domain i think so please next uh yeah there was another feedback about the schema language i don't think that i understand it correctly and there were no replies and replies to to explain that so maybe this would be to the discussion please next yeah well one of the feedbacks was the request for measurements between cbor well i did performed some tests with the scripts that is available on the on the link the slides in fact it was a kind of uh kind of data structures that were 1000 messages in one list that showed or that was corresponding orders in some uh some imagina imagined uh shop or eshop and uh just to come to have some base measurement i used json as a un uh compressed and text based format then i encapsulated or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "encoded the the whole list of messages in using cbor and then encoded using bare and the next measurement was the the same but zipped or compressed form if we can see the results in the bottom of the slide when we use the the length of the complete messages is comparable to the to the row uh raw data when we use cbor there is some overhead which comes with cbor because cbr messages contains the schema of the messages and when we use json there is even a greater overhead the same apply for the for the compressed versions so it's like that next please um yeah just to say that paul hoffman has joined the queue i don't know if you want to take questions now or at the end yeah and definitely okay paul would you like to ask a question this is paul hoffman co-author of seabor um i think your previous slide in this slide have a pretty significant error a seaboard doesn't have a built-in schema you can build one in if you want that would be complete waste of overhead here i looking at your example here i cannot imagine how it would be twice as big unless you tagged every item saying this is the name this is this which is pretty much not what anyone does in seaboard so um again seaboard was not written to be shortest it's written to be concise that's very different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "but i think your comparisons are pretty off uh because you're trying to force the schema into seaborg which is doable but not necessary thank you yeah great uh thank you very much i am really sorry about that i will uh redo the experiment and update the threat email thread uh to be honest i uh used the the cbo r2 python package to this and just let the default settings so so there may be some some problem with that that i haven't find out i will uh i will make note and dig deeper into this problem and try to try to do the measurement again if it's okay oh yes so yeah next slide great well uh the thing uh the another feedback in the mailing list was the comparison with already well-known uh protocols used uh for uh for encoding the messages the examples are avro protobufs captain proto thrift and flood buffers these were mentioned mentioned in the in the feedback so uh the first and most important thing is that none of the above is standardized and i think that it makes sense to have some standard just because uh these these frameworks or protocols are widely used so so having a standard that is well defined makes sense in my opinion i would like to repeat what bara has well concise messages without schema which means the messages are concise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "it has the octet aligned messages with the little indian representation when possible the encoding is ejective and the butter is designed with the simplicity in mind what i've already said so uh next slide please please yeah this is the comparison of the of the types used and available in encoding it's kind of uh how to say well i take the the take the types which are in the barre so it's obvious that every types here is in bare this is just to show uh how the others uh how did others protocols are uh compared to body so uh we can see that for uh integers unsigned integers integers and flows this for numbers there are i'm sorry there are some some types missing first you ain't and eind are variable land uh integers or on-site integers next slide three please yeah this is other standard types you can see that for example data with fixed land are really rare to be uh to be you used or to be available in other protocols next please uh and the last are yeah lists optional and and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "so on yeah next please so this is summary of the of the comparisons uh when i was researching the protobufs i really got lost with the variable and integers i'm sorry maybe something is misleading on the on the previous slide i did it with my best knowledge and tried to do it as uh as best as possible another thing is that uh standard is it was uh hard to find out which types are supported i needed some to sometimes dig deeper into into the documentation or it wasn't in the supported types or things like that other thing is that of course other protocols uh have uh more types or different types or another types like table types or something like that but but it tries to keep uh keeping being simple and uh all the other types can be built up on the basic types of of the barracks so this is the reason why some some types are omitted yes and the last one there is clear distinction between primitive and aggregate types which was sometimes in bahrain which was sometimes also difficult in the other other protocols so next please yeah this was a question about the future extension points but it specifies uh or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "for for message uh uh for future message consideration but i suggest to use unions where all the available versions are defined in union and later the precation just means that the first first message has manually set attack in the union next please the uh feedback was the using data or time well we decided to not use space special data type time type in bare because a lot can be done just by using timestamp or unsight integer or using other specifications for date times and pairs the the date time next please yes and this is all i wanted to say regarding pare uh yeah there are questions regarding the progress within ietf which i am not sure how this should go and we'll be happy for her help so great thank you thank you so much for your presentation and so i'd invite people to join the queue either in a person in the room or using the client if you're able to just to summarize we've had some messages on the list so far um suggesting sibor and others suggesting that siebel is not a competitor um and i think richard barnes posted just this morning saying sees that as kind of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "tls plus 10 so a small focus working group with his suggestion so just to remind participants keep your answers focused on the dispatch question should this work progress and if so in what way should it progress so we'll just call through the queue in the order i see it so um rich richard barnes first thanks christy um so yeah i i appreciate the sentiment where this working's coming from when we did mls we needed a compact encoding we went with tls encoding which is as i said on the thread you know 90 similar to this level like the way structure and code actually could exactly contact us we had extended tests a little bit sympathetic the idea that there's um need for attention um so it seems like they're it's not implausible to me that you know it would be useful to have a spec that was that just encapsulated the syntax as opposed to you know if i was continuing referencing section four of rfc 446 and to extend it a little bit to cover you know what kind of what people expect from a modern encoding system i agree there's there's a bunch of other binary encoding systems but we've had a bunch of success with tls syntax and and lightly extend light extensions and tls syntax in the atf so all right my inclination here probably to do a small focus working group uh if we're going to do anything in kind of a small focus room starting to us adding the 10 that we need here okay thank you richard and you broke up quite a bit during that so just to um clarify i heard that you were supportive of forming a small focused working group um if that's not correct can you please put it in the java chat and i will correct myself um okay eric rescaler next in the queue uh i think richard was saying he supported a small working group to standardize the tls syntax not this um that's not actually my position so i'm just trying to mirror it um so um i'm not particularly interested in technical details i'm much more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "concerned about the deployment situation there are a giant pile of existing things like this as you indicated earlier and the fact that none of them are standards i think strongly indicates there's not a lot of interest in standardizing this and for us to standardize yet another one without any evidence of real market desire it seems like a real fail so my question to you is which large constituencies want to use this technology padan may you repeat your question i said which large constituencies wish to use this technology uh well the body is uh used at least at source hut which is the the company of the creator of the encoding and they use it for for web tokens for storing web tokens and communication with client so at least this is the use case which which is used today sure i think we can agree that sourcehut is rather smaller than facebook and google definitely we also had the feedback in the mailing list of some some researcher that that tried to find out the the uh something different than json for receiving data from the sensors because of the measurements and this was particular case where yv uh allowed in the in the standard the full compliance with i triple e 754 floating numbers for example so okay well anyway my comment is this should go nowhere until there's strong evidence that people actually want to use it and sourcehead is like not even close to enough"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "uh if uh you uh or if if you need some some uh giant company like google to backup this uh specification i can't offer uh i can offer nothing i don't have such a company uh but uh still i think uh there is a need for standardization of uh something similar to bare uh that would be a simple simply implemented which would be a safe concise and uh practically with the same uh same properties okay thank you just um to say we only have a couple of minutes left in this item so if remaining participants can make their comments short and i completely agree that um implementation is an implementation regardless of the size of you know it doesn't have to be anti-competitive in that kind of way of having a certain size of implementer but um i think the point might be more about multiple vendors as is being discussed in jabber um okay so next in the queue is um cullen who's physically in the queue i think yes colin jennings thank you i think it would be useful to standardize something along these lines at itf because we just constantly keep repeating this and building it individually in each protocol you know we have a tls and then a slightly different variant in mls and then and then you know several of the drafts i'm writing have a different sort of variant so i think it would help us write drafts to have a tool that we could pull out of the box and use if we wanted obviously we do sometimes use c boards sometimes you use this sometimes other things so i don't see any harm and i think it would be useful to pick uh maybe it's exactly this one maybe it's something maybe it's the tls one i don't really care but to form something that we can refer to and is standardized um and is roughly along about the level of weight and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "complexity that you're proposing here it basically has exactly the sort of characteristics of what you're proposing i mean if there was no other proposals i'd be fine with bear it looks it meets my needs exactly um i wish it had a sink like a half floating point thing like a 16-bit floating point too but i'm sure we could add that um so i think it would be worth doing something like this i don't know if there's a small working groups the right way or whether we should you know have a bake off between several of the proposals that could be used and see what people want to want to go forward with uh but i'd be in favor of having something thanks thank you and we just run through there's someone in jabber agreeing with you as well and barry you're next this is barry lieber um first i'll say i agree with what uh ecker said the overhead in the ietf to just to standardize one of these things is high and we really need to see that that we need it that it it's going to be adopted um and that there's a pressing need for it before we get into that so i have comments from two different roles i am one of the co-seabor co-chairs now i have not spoken with my co-chair but i would support discussing this in seaboard i think uh paul's comment kind of raises the issue that this should have been chatted about in seabor to see what it what it adds whether cyborg can be enhanced whether it makes sense to proceed with body or whatever it is so i think we should start the discussion there and as the former ad who ad sponsored seabor i highly recommend not ad sponsoring anything like this ever again that this really needs to go through some sort of working group whether it be seabor or a new working group that we set up for the purpose but i'll go back to saying that i stress what ecker said that we really need to make sure we have a need for it before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "we go through the effort thanks i will thank you barry great thank you just um to our remaining participants if you could be extremely speedy in your comments um otherwise i'll cut you off because we have a full session today okay um john clenson you're up next i i agree with barry and ecker uh but i wanted to take a slightly different cast on this uh which is it every additional one of these uh channeling marshall roles is an interoperability problem because it scientists offer a different direction um and uh and i i worry about the need for this uh i worry about the compression arguments in a world in which we have the kinds of bandwidth we do today and and the cheapness of storage we do today although i'd be happy to hear the way that doesn't apply here uh but uh but if we're going to do anything of this type i would rather see an irtf group or an art area charter and study effort or design team to bring the various advocates of these various formats together and see if they can agree upon something a single standard for these for this class of things would probably move us forward starting that discussion in seaboard would be fine but uh but moving off in all different directions with more and more of these is is a challenge for operability and not helpful for the internet thanks just to clarify you think the work should go forward in some form possibly through a new group and um davidskenazi google uh so plus one to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "folks that said this before the reason that we have like 17 different non-standards in this space is that every company builds their own to fit their specific needs and those are slightly different from one another and that's why google has protobuf for example and what google hasn't like moved to standardize it here because we want to keep change control and modify it if we feel like it so if source wants its own format that's totally fine it can use it but unless there is a specific need from other vendors i don't see any reason to progress this in the ietf so the other vendors don't need to be the size of google obviously but there needs to be market interest from outside of one specific vendor so my personal thought on the dispatch question is do not progress this unless there is interest from multiple folks interested in implementing okay thank you very much so that's the end of our review [Music] um but just to say that what i'm hearing so far and what i've seen on the list is not a good fit um it doesn't necessarily have to be this specific proposal and um we need to see more um interest from rather than just from one single participant so um okay we'll move on to the next item and refresh that at the end if you disagree if i will leave in chapter thank you very much jerry thank you okay so next up we have braun and i think sheeping you're running the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "all right thank you hopefully when this appears in just a second no i'll try and make this one a little bit quicker and hopefully we can catch up some time hi kirsty could you please continue i have some trouble yeah sure no problem sorry bro that's okay cool there we go next slide please let's let's get through this fairly quickly i think describing these situations fairly easy basically you want to send a file from party a to party b but neither of them are guaranteed to be online all the time so you have to store it somewhere in between ideally that third party that you're storing the file with or random large blob of data doesn't need to see the content of it so you would prefer to encrypt it but then you have the issue of how do you tell the receiving party how it's encrypted and how to decrypt it next slide please sorry this text a little bit small but ideally party a creates and encrypts the blob up uploads the encrypted data somewhere tells party b via the the most easy to read and easy to to use way here's how you decrypt this when you've downloaded it and then party b downloads it so this this slide is lots of noise which you can read later next slide please i'll show the the diagram of traffic flow because that's probably the easiest here so the tricky bit here is you have the uri has to contain the key when it's sent to party b and then not contain the key when it's sent through to the file store as party c because in that case it's gone over the wire it's gone in logs it can be stored and the data can then be decrypted and we don't want party c to ever see the plain text so the question is how to do this next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:06",
    "text": "oh yeah first i put in this obviously it'll take time to get to something like this but i'd like it to be something that we can work towards over time it's better if it's standardized obviously there's been heaps of non-standard versions of this every messaging protocol has something for this so that's why i thought this makes sense to come to the ietf the reason i came to it in the first place is i want to implement large file attachments with email which means putting a uri somewhere in a mime part saying download from here what we have at the moment is that the uri has put as a link in the html version of the body with little or no annotation to say this is an attachment at all but you can click on it you can download it in whatever email receiving program you have i want the same thing but without the place you're storing it having to be able to see the plain text as well and that means it needs to be at a low enough level that it's embedded in the libraries rather than in every single receiving program and so you can pass the uri around as if it's plain text and any program can then access it using the low-level libraries the issue here of course is that nothing does that yet and unless it's a standard nothing will do it and so we'll wind up having to wrap every single uri in every single little format in the same way i think the next might be the last slide which is an example of usage the next slide please on the justice league is in the queue uh questions at the end i think okay then we'll carry right on so oh yeah so possibilities for design i have no ideas um this is not my area of expertise i'd love someone else to take on this work and i will help you if i can but yeah on the last slide i have an example of yet another place where this would be useful that's not the use case that i had so go to the last slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "and this is an example of a v card that i pulled from online and it has a link to a photo and the photo is value type uri i would love to be able to replace this with something that says link to a photo and the server where the photos stored can't see it and that to back port this into every single format with separate encryption keys very very difficult but if you could just say a uri gets downloaded and either has it it's just plain text from the server and downloaded plain text over https sure so you've got transport encryption but you don't have encryption on the server or you have encryption on the server and it's downloaded as encrypted data and then decrypted locally with a key that is embedded in the uri then you can just pass uris around and use either case and that's all i've got so questions comments thank you thank you ron for ever showing your work if people in the room are able to it would be very helpful if you could scan the qr code event that should allow you to register the meeting properly and help us with our cue management and first in the queue is ted hardy uh thanks everyone uh thanks ron for the work i actually got in the queue to ask a scope question so it's a little bit late um but uh back on slide four uh it looks like you had a party a a party b and a server but it wasn't clear what happened if you also had a party c d e f g h i j and k were you expecting each of them to be able to using the same decryption key for it the v card would tend to indicate that that was the case but in that situation it's sort of hard to figure out how any of those people can't reford it to party c to allow party c to have access to it so if you could just clarify this scope that would be useful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "yeah i think realistically if you get a copy of the url with the key you are party b if you don't get your party c there can be one or n of each of these parties so there's the party that has the blob and doesn't have a copy of the key and there's the party that has a copy of the key and the key can be considered a small version of the large data really conceptually so if you get the key then you can see the content if you don't have the key you can't say the content okay uh so in in a situation like that i think one of the things you've got to consider is whether you're you're you're actually better off uh associating these as two uris which have a relationship uh so you could have like a uri that says this is the um this is the place where you retrieve it and a different uri like a data uri that contains uh the decryption key that you want to send so that you actually then can use multiple different paths to give the data uri without necessarily always including it in the uri which is is used along uh the path that that part ec has um but i i think my question for that would be how do you pass that around in the existing channels that accept exactly one uri uh so that you that's a everything in in in in computer science can can be solved with one more layer of indirection you create a uh yeah i love carrying them both but the the upshot to this is i i really feel like what you're describing here um doesn't have very strong confidentiality characteristics in the multi-party case uh so i think you you'd really want to write a draft for the security considerations where you're describing what it is you're expecting the the characteristics of the um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "confidentiality or or other characteristics you're getting out of encrypting this data would be because i think yeah absolutely it's from the slides to figure out what it is this would deliver thanks yeah now this is very early stage and it's mostly just working out is this something the isf wants to do and if so where where should it happen um there's a lot more design work to do ted are you able to just answer that question in the idea i interest i don't think that there's it's people to answer that question without a draft that describes the security properties so i would say uh the dispatch answer would be not yet yeah okay so my my answer to that i guess since it's probably worth answering is that the confidentiality here is basically party b can leak the key to whoever they want to um if party b doesn't want to leak the key we want to make it easy for them to not accidentally leak the key to party c that is that is the main confidentiality requirement here rather than really really strong confidentiality which is the same as if you sent them the raw file they could leak it to whoever they want but we don't want them to accidentally do it easily thank you very much bronn okay um we have john mavine in the queue and i'd encourage people on jabba if you have comments or opinions on the dispatch outcome please join the queue which we'll be cutting shortly so john levine over to you yeah um as i'm sure you know this is not a new problem we have message external body going back probably 20 20 years and i think and which i think it was important back when email had to be tiny and then when the email sort of got medium-sized then people started putting in attachments and now we've come around again to the point where the files have gotten bigger than the mail servers again and i think this actually could be addressed so long as you are willing to restrict its use to places where you have mime bodies it will be pretty straightforward to extend message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "external external body to do this but you know basically you'd add some more stuff to the external body with the keys and the stuff and we already have the syntax to have a url elsewhere in the message that refers to the external body if you want people they will link to it um so i bought it i would want to try to see if we could make that work first because trying to invent a new york a new uri format that is like well this is a url but it also has passwords and stuff in it i think that would give heartburn to the people who worry about um uri syntax i i really don't want to do it at that level because then we've got yet another baroque custom format that's only in one place for handling this and every other place that you do uris needs to the same thing so i would love to say that whether it's unencrypted data at the other end or encrypted data at the other end you can ask your system library to please fetch this data make the transformations required give me the plain text so it's basically adding adding a decryption key to you to a general uri yes okay in a way that doesn't get sent to the server automatically does that affect your view on the dispatch outcome sean um i still think it's a problem worth solving i do but i i do think now we we want to but you know but basically ted and i are both saying like we heard fairly different things that ted has issues of who who can decode it i have issues of is this is this a mime type or is this a uri so i think i mean it definitely is if there were an appropriate working group since it came from email i suppose it could go to one of the email emails i don't think an email working group is the right place for this yeah i really don't yeah i guess and i don't i don't think an email working group should even be trying to do this work in the my headers necessarily i think this it's a better place to do it inside the uri if we possibly can but anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "i do think it's worth it's it's worth doing because i agree with ron that people do people have hacky ways of passing around files that are too big too big to embed all the time okay thank you so you think it's worth doing more detail needed perhaps a draft great um eric for schooler you're next in the queue yeah i think this is generally worth doing um as an aside i think that um the https plus blah blah blah is like don't do that but um yeah like i said i don't know much about this yeah sure what happened i this gentleman we're solving um i'm not as concerned as ted is about the um security properties i mean like they are what they are but that's if we just set the thing as you say if you're just something in the body be the same so um so it doesn't really bend me out of shape that much um in terms of location i see mark donnie himself behind me um it seems like probably this seems pretty small so i would tend to think http i know it's not quite a great fit for http but we've already kind of like done a bunch of some more crap with like you know encrypted bodies and stuff so it seems like it kind of sort of belongs um uh i suppose i suppose there's an http it may have to be a new working group which is like kind of heavyweight um but mark may have a different opinion yeah there was a comment on the mailing list that the tigris working group might be a place as well yeah yeah if you if you if you wanted to be like bogged down in secrets forever secret i think tigress has got like a much like bigger kind of remit so i mean maybe there's some way to carve this off but i worry it's going to get clogged onto the bigger thing but i don't feel strongly about it okay thank you very much we'll cut the key there and say nottingham you are in the queue that's the disembodied head hello oh good i'm here oh good um yeah i i um mark nottingham i kind of feel like this is an area that that is prone to over engineering if we're not careful uh the the most you know if you don't want if you want to communicate a key with the uri but you don't want to send it on the request the most obvious way to do those fragment identifiers as you saw and in in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "you with the uri is the fragment identifiers defined by the format so define a format with a fragment identifier um as i said in in chat uh i think the important part here to satisfy a lot of concern is uh to describe the security properties of that thing in in the draft and we'll see where where we where we get from there um that that to me seems like the most straightforward way possible i feel like if we we throw this to uh other venues or other approaches we might come up with an over complicated solution cool can i ask you to help me with this one yeah but here's the problem we live in the same city i can i can get that that's fine all right let's do that when i get back super thank you very much brown for presenting your work i think there i was hearing um that a bit more details needed to understand the scope of the problem but the problem is certainly worth addressing and a couple of potential avenues going forward depending on the detail that comes from that draft or a bit more scoping okay if you disagree with that then please uh do raise it in jabba and we'll summarize at the end of the session as always so thank you very much and handily we've got mark nottingham here ready to present his draft um and sheeping is driving the site for us so off you go mark thank you thank you um so this is going to be extremely short ecker do you have a question or or is the video frozen i think the video is frozen never mind i just have this haunting image of ecker standing at the queue waiting to speak it's a little disconcerting okay so uh this is gonna be very short i think uh this is about a draft that i wrote uh i think now a couple months ago privacy considerations for web feed readers next slide please um so uh people have have kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "assumed that that web feed you know web feed so rss adam that sort of thing are dead that they're not really interesting anymore uh in my experience and from talking to people that's not necessarily true next slide um on the consumption side there's a pretty vibrant ecosystem of different feed readers and different consumers uh that have built some sort of feed reading capacity into them there's your standard kind of desktop feed readers there's online feed readers there are products that aren't feed centric that also use them in really interesting ways for example the kind of top middle shell looking logo there is devin think which is a kind of uh a very interesting academic tool for aggregating information that uses feeds extensively if you choose to use it that i happen to use quite a bit next slide on the producer side i think most people are aware that there are a lot of feeds out there um still there's still a lot of sites that produce them you know by default either because the underlying tools uh generate them or because they have some constituency for that um to get some sort of metric on that and and just because i was interested i wrote a little tool to scrape uh the people you follow on twitter to see how many of their profile urls had feeds and it turns out that for most people that i checked about a third of the profile feeds of the people they followed actually had uh sorry profile urls had feeds which was really really interesting to me that that you know there's this latent kind of you know ecosystem of feeds out there that is just waiting to be used if people bother to use it uh next slide and and that to me is is kind of a bit of a theme i think for for how i think about this you know the feeds web feeds are our latent platform on the internet they're they're out there people don't think about them a lot but they're still used every day and they're still available"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and next slide you know when i say platform i mean things like you know what people call the web platform so this this you know ecosystem that you can build on top of the the obvious you know big one out there being the web of course uh next slide but unlike the web feeds aren't really advertising driven they have a lot of really unique properties as compared to the web the information you get in feeds has a different tenor because it's not able to be you know advertising driven usually next slide and so that makes me think what can be done to improve and protect that platform how can we uh bolster it so that it's more useful to the people who want to use it it hasn't gotten a lot of love from the itf for for several years now but but what can we do to change that i guess next slide and so that's what led me and that's kind of the thinking behind this draft um it's a draft talking about what are the privacy considerations for this platform you know when you're you're making requests when you're handling content how should a a a feed reader uh what in in http uh terms would be a user agent how should it behave regarding user privacy uh next slide and i think that that's all i have at this point this is very very early stage i probably could have taken this equally easily just to the uh apps area because sorry art area because uh i just want to kind of give people a heads up that i'm thinking about this and starting to talk to people about it um i'd love to hear any feedback people have from a dispatch standpoint i think it's too early to dispatch anything like this to another place but i would love to talk about maybe getting a mailing list or something like that so i just i'm just mostly this is just a heads up but also i'm curious to hear if anybody has any feedback or or any kind of comments about it and my video is frozen because zecker is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "still just standing at the queue so i can't see the room i found him okay come on i think i have to reload the page to unfreeze the video unfortunately that's okay um folks any comments questions support for a mailing list disdain a mailing list absolute outrage at the creation of a mailing list thank you paul hoffman and we'll get other people joining the cube paul hoffman off you go paul hoffman surprised that i'm not seeing more sport i definitely support this um when we did adam hub you know in the paleolithic era there was a lot of interest a lot of stuff happened it became invisible but as mark said is still there um adding privacy even talking about privacy would be a good thing because this is definitely part of the ecosystem still um it's not like we we're trying to do an art i assume mark is not trying to make this more important and you know web 3.5 or whatever um but just you know something to say we you know we started something we should we should keep working on it in a privacy level so definitely interested i think a mailing list would be a reasonable start and um if if it needs to be a working group i think it can be uh you know an easily set up with later but a mailing list for this and talking about other privacy issues especially across formats would be just fine thank you comments no yes so we could go to the meeting list for more discussions yeah okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "presenting mark yep so i think the outcome there again disagree in java if this is wrong but it sounds like we would create a mailing list for further discussion um and a couple of plus ones they're starting a list and seeing how much energy there is and hoping it will get people thinking about rss more so super move on to our next presenter hello welcome can everybody hear me okay closer closer all right that's why i did it all right thanks everybody good even closer how about that this is why we tested is that good a little better right good awesome hey thanks everybody for having me today online i got bradley peabody with me other co-author of this today we're going to talk about new uuid formats really it's new uid versions next slide please so one of the a couple of the problems with rfc 4122 is that the main timestamp based uuid suffer poorly from database index locality problems the uuid version one that we call it has a very uncommon epoch choice the gregorian epoch which goes to a timestamp length of 100 nanoseconds which is pretty odd right and then to further compound that problem they split the epoch up into a weird a weird way sorry get my hands out there and it just causes all kinds of weird issues so we've taken an examination of that and figured out a different way to do it and we actually found a lot of people internet who are untangling that epoch and just slapping a version 4 on it so we're going to try and standardize that as version 6. so the people who are doing this and want the benefit of it have a place to do that in a standard track we've also got some security concerns that we want to address such as things like mac addresses in the uuid and using cryptographically secure pseudorandom generators and then we need some better clarifications"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "around uuid generation versus uuid storage in terms of things like databases and overall just a lot of clarifications around little things like big indian versus little indian stuff that the errada's have an opened on 4122 and we've kind of tried to address as many of these as we could in this update to 4122 under some of our new versions and i'll go through those real quick real fast next slide okay so uui version six like i said is it's the time based input it's the same as uuid version one we're just not swizzling around the bits we're taking the timestamp as it is that hundred nanosecond gregorian epoch and we're laying it down and then the rest of the uid layout is exactly the same and this is something that many many many places have been doing and they either put like a version zero on it which is weird or they throw it as a version six so it looks like it's a random address but that's all we're doing with the version six so we're just labeling what other people are doing out there right now and giving them a place to do it officially we also make the subtle hint to try and not use mac addresses but we're not going to outright say you can't use mac addresses because if we want to you know have a one-to-one conversion and people want to swap from version one to version six they can do that under this pretty easily next slide please so version seven has really been the focus right of this we've looked at this and we've said what can we do better if we were going to make a time-based uuid right now and the obvious thing is to use a better epoch which is the well-known unix epoch and then it comes into questions like how long do we make this what precision level do we make this and there's been a lot of back and forth and we ended up laying down a 48-bit unix epoch with a millisecond time stamp and the rest of the uuid layout is random it's entropy and you can move the slider left and right and if we move a little bit more time stamp we get one side of the field who's really angry if we move"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "it to the other way and give it you know less time stamp the entropy folks uh you know both sides are very heated we laid on and landed on millisecond time stamp so that it's the most ubiquitous to implement there's lots of libraries that can do this the timestamp is very well known it caters 99 of the use cases next slide for those other one percent of the use cases those folks that want to use a custom epoch they want to start something right now and start counting up time they want to use nanosecond level they can use uuiv version 8 which is every bit of this except for the version of the variant are for you to use in anything you want this future proofs our spec allows very custom uuids to have a space experimental uuids to have a space versus slapping a version 4 on it they can do that under version 8. if you want to take version 7 fork it and do whatever you want with it you can do it within the space of a uuid version 8. next slide lastly this is kind of an oddball uuid but we're just writing down and saying that the maximum value for uuid is being defined in the spec which is all bit set to a one 4122 sets the nil uuid as all bits set to zero we're just writing down the opposite of that so that library generators can actually write this down and reserve it so you don't use it in some weird way this is for some needle and haystack operations there's a github thread about why you might use this but we kind of have a small section about this maximum uuid next all right so we've done a lot of prototyping we've done a lot of data modeling we've been working on this for i mean brad's been working on for about three years i've been working on for about two years we have taken everything we've done with library implementers prototypes and and put this into kind of a swan song to the implementers out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "there we've solved a lot of problems and whether it be you using version 7 or making your own under version 8 we have a really nice list of what you should do or should not do some of these are like time stamp granularity reliability source precision and accuracy fuzzing altering smearing padding or truncating right your uuids let's say you can only generate 32-bit unix timestamp how do you make that work in the 48-bit space monaticity encounters for when things need to be laid down in a database in an exact order how do you do that what's the placement that makes sorting really nicely how do you generate those or seed those from the beginning how do you increment those is it a random increment or is it a linear increment and other topics like distributed uuid generation across multi nodes that may not talk collision resistance mechanisms local and global uniqueness csr unguessability through csp rng sorting considerations opacity and introspection database considerations we talked about really briefly about how's the best what's the best way to store these in a database and then finally of course security considerations we've gone at great lengths to really put the last half of this document as a this is what you should do and this is the best way to do it based on all of our research and then last slide i just want to talk real quick about do we have a need yes there's a lot of energy from our community on the next generation of uuids a lot of people like uuid version seven and you can see that yes column in the middle almost everybody is implementing that i have a lot of uuid version eights out there that i have to find that are folks who really liked what we had maybe in a previous draft and we tweaked something and they said i'll just i'll keep that i'll put it as an eight and then they just throw an eight on it and gives them the space to do that there's more implementations but those are on version two or version one of our draft so they're slowly being updated but you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "see there's a lot of different languages there's a lot of different folks who have contributed to this and there's a lot of energy around getting that uuid out there and standardized in a new way and that's it i'll take questions comments or concerns okay folks um thank you very much guys for your presentation give people time to join the queue either in the room or virtually any questions comments and don't forget the dispatch question should this work go forward and if so in what form so first in the queue we have david scanasi thank you davidskenazi google um thanks for this presentation like that was exactly what i like what we were kind of looking to hear and so thank you clearly there's interest in this and clearly you've done a lot of homework uh i would like to see this published it sounds useful as far as dispatching it um if is there if there is an ad willing to de-sponsor this that might be the simplest path forward but otherwise maybe a very small tightly scoped working group with a single deliverable would work um i'm just trying to find like the least resistance way of doing this but i think this should get published thank you we definitely scoped this to fix exactly the problems we needed and took anything else out of 41 22 and set it to the side and said somebody else can fix those problems this is what we want to focus on okay so strong support there any other supporters any questions comments we're going to need more support than just one person here you can see colin jennings in the queue colin jennings uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "you know i i support the idea of forming a working group to sort of deal with the care and feeding of uu ids like if you go and list look at all the traffic that these guys had about the nuances of this it's it's one of those things with a lot of subtle complexities that sort of break things like who would have thought of the database and you know i mean there's all these issues so i think having a long-term sort of place where uh if any of these updates come we get the knowledge in one place that sort of knows the history of why things are the way the way they are and what went right and what went wrong is probably pretty good and there's a lot of errata on those drafts too that just point out like wow like we probably should be doing a little better i'm keeping those as well maintained standards i believe might be the words that come to mind uh so i'd be in favor of doing something that allowed this to be a well-maintained standard thank you thank you very much thanks alyssa cooper so i was just looking at the history of 4122 which also looks like it was 80s sponsored but i wasn't here at the time um so i don't know ted or very people who remember um if that was a good choice but um agree with colin that it might be that that wasn't a great choice and that's why like we have a pile of erada and other other things so it's worth like learning from that experience and having that inform what we do next thank you very much and there's a comment in the chat from lucas howdy just saying this works seems valuable if only for uuid version 4. um eric risk you're in the queue yeah um so this does seem like a reasonably compelling argument that something needs to be done um just looking at the body of work here i think would be an appropriate day to sponsor it um like does much work behind it should be working grouping if it's a very fast working group because that's like how things get handled"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:06",
    "text": "okay then um murray's noted that rfc four one two two is a d sponsored by ted so it seems like the mood of the room is either um that the work should go forward um and it should go forward in the least friction full way possible so um either a small tightly sketched working group or an ad sponsorship um murray as the 80 in the room any comments on your view or something for us to pick offline and discuss um i think probably the next step that i would like to see is who would be willing to help develop a charter for this stroke so as soon as i ask anyone to sign up and actually do the work um i guess we can ask on the list for for help developing a charter but that's sound that's i'm hearing that's probably the preferred way to go and i can i can take up um whatever the responsibility rule for that is yes thank you i can see um a couple of comments in java as well where my group sounds good or working group is the path um and there maybe there's some discussion to be had about whether it should just be for this draft or if it could be a more general long-term care for uuids and but that would be worked out in the charter i suppose so i think there's no more comments no more people in the queue so we'll just say thank you very much kaiser i think we have our dispatch outcome and thanks very much for taking the time to present to us here and so we move on to our last agenda items today the discarding priority of rpp video packets there's been quite a bit of discussion on the list about this um so we'll just stop sharing the slides if that's the issue thing and i can share the new slides there we go and just hold it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "can you hear me clearly yes cool all right um my name is legendo i'm going to present less discarding priority rtb video packets in this presentation i mainly want you to want to show you that you know the importance of the packet payload would decide the discarding priority of the packets when network congestion happens so then i also want to discuss how to achieve this prioritize discarding when network congestion happens through the dsp field and mapping next slide please um as all we know that rtp is a protocol dedicated for transport of real-time video and you know audio streams and are typically on top of udp so there is no guarantee of packet delivery um rtp packet formats for different video codecs have been specified in ietf for you know various codecs and by reading those drafts i i found out that they are actually um priority indicator of the packets in those rtp headers or say um they called an ar headers so i will briefly talk about those in the next following slides next slide please uh so for for h.264 the coded video data is organized into the in our units and then the rtp packet for h.264 video inherits the same and air unit header so it has two bits here called an ri field it indicates the relative importance and transport priority of the layer unit determined by the encoder so the higher value of the mri shows the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "higher importance of that packet or another unit and they have different types of [Music] packet payload structures for a single on our unit so there is only one snail unit inside the payload and then that another field would be associated with a single air unit for aggregation packets there are multiple in their units into aggregated into a single rtp payload so the value of the rnri is the maximum of the old air units carried in aggregation packets and then for the fragmentation units it means that a single nri on the air unit actually is fragmented into multiple rtp packets so as you can imagine all fu packets will have the stem and ri value um and from quoted from this draft so for more important units needs to be better protected against the transmission loss of packet dropping than less important than our units let's go to the next slide um and then yeah just on the slide change sorry um a quick reminder time you remind her that master oh okay okay i'll go quickly for the next few months to wear a mask oh okay to wear a mask if you're present in the room that's part of the ietf requirements unless you have an exemption for it so to put on a mask okay do you want me to take the mask right now no no you're fine i'm fine okay it's for people in the room okay all right okay and and then for svc um it also has this mri two bits to indicate the relative importance and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "transport priority additionally it has three bytes in the entire unit header which includes the pr id which is called priority id which has six bits and also did qid and tid because svc actually supports the different levels of scalability next slide please and for h.265 because it has improved sport of temporal scalability over h.264 includes this tid which is three bits so it indicates the temporal layer of that packet belongs to so the lower temporal layer means more importance because it's the base layer it will be used to predict other layers so the ti the lower value of tid means more important of that packet for layer eye it is now used in h.365 go to next slide please and so for h.266 it has the layer id and tid similar as h.265 however uh yeah additionally um similar to h.265 of course the tid indicates the relative importance and then has addition this layer id uh which is six bits uh it is further indicates how important the layer id is um sorry further uh indicates how important this packet is go go to the next slide yeah um just to let you know there's someone in the queue would you like to take questions now or at the end of the presentation i can ask it now real quick uh just a informational uh comment there's a name sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "mozinati uh cisco mozinati cisco um there's a draft in abt core that's close to rfc called video frame marking that goes over a lot of these points and uh what it basically does is it normalizes across all of the codecs not just the itu codex but also alternative codecs like vp8p98v1 and it normalizes them into um a common format for describing the the dependencies and the the priority of of the temporal and spatial layers and so really all that's missing is in your draft you can instead of referencing every single codec you could reference an rtp header extension that carries that same information um the difference is that you're jumping all the way to mapping that directly to a dscp uh priority and that's a that's a step that um we've had a lot of argument about before about how to how to do that mapping and so i'd suggest you separate those two things one is identifying the the layers and the varieties of the layers very specifically and there's already rtb header extension to uh to surface that codec agnostically and then mapping that to a network priority is a separate problem that i think is probably better in like transport areas yeah thanks for pointing out draft yes i'm aware of that drafts and uh before of course after writing uh this particular draft yeah i will definitely refer to the draft or extension header you were mentioning about later for a later version okay next slide please um and in those drafts all mention the media aware network element so it is the element which is such as you know middle box or application layer gateway which is able to parsing those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "rtp packet payload headers and even rtp payload to reacting to to the network congestion um but due to the explicit layering in protocol stacked upper layer data and headers are transparent to network layer so the intermediate routers have no access to those information go to next slide even though we have the media where our nav nodes may be deployed in at ash or certain routers in the middle of the network but when network congestion happens for those routers do not have those you know media awareness you won't be able to react to to the network congestion properly to discard those less important packets so what we can do go to lexi we can actually um maybe using the dscp to indicate the importance of those packets um so the nri field has two bits tidbit field has three bits so scp value may be able to be mapped because you know uh as it has six bits maybe can be used to map according to either the iv value or tid value as well as the video types so the either the radio host or the source or the mae at the server domain edge can do the mapping and set up the dsp cp value for each rtp packet then the discarding precedence of those rtp packs can be determined when linked congestion happens go to the next slide so this is just you know print preliminary consideration how to map uh the dsc rtp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "how to map those mri values into dsp values according to the video types um and we will discuss those later um let's go to the next slide and also we have this kind of mapping for the tid value go to next slide oh cool well thank you uh kirsten for showing this slide for me uh so uh in the email list magnus mentioned list rfc 7657 so if in general uh you know quoted from this draft marking packets with different dscps would result in different phps being applied at nodes may uh generate reordering issues however so in large draft it recommends to map a single network five tuples use phps from a to a single f class which means there is only three in each f class there is only three dropping precedence so it would not be possible to map to an ri or tid to a single f class you know one is four uh another is eight so single f class is only three um values and um on the other hand actually udp is not sensitive to or reordering the network so maybe we can use different dsap screws corresponding phps enables reordering within a single udp tuple so what i was thinking maybe you know instead of just mapped to a single f class we can map to multiple af class as i mentioned in the previous two slides go to next slide please and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "and another thing is about you know you have to um h.266 and h.265 uh svc you have the pr id which is six bits which provides more granular priority information about lab packets and also you have h266 the layer id also is six bits um which again providing more discarding uh priority information so many many dhcp values are already being used and could be um available so are there any other ways to achieve this packet level dropping precedence within follow um maybe we need to consider other solutions um you know if discarding precedence as final granularity is considered to be supported okay um all right go to next slide please we got people in the queue do you want to take questions now oh uh yes yes okay all right so obviously uh this is maybe relevant to avt core however abt core is specified is you know a major scope is to specify and maintain payload formats for use with trtp may not consider how you know how to actually use those values in the network layer and um i think the most relevant maybe the transport air area and working group yeah let's all for my presentation i will take questions great thank you very much for your presentation and we do have folks in the queue please add yourself if you have you on the dispatch question so first up hi this is pete uh yeah it seems pretty straightforward that the people who can evaluate most of this are an avt core so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "i would suggest taking the document there as the dispatch for this and uh someone mentioned in the chat room that perhaps tsvwg could take on the dcsp bits um and i think that would be fine but avt core has the expertise to evaluate this so you might as well take it there in the first place right thank you for a suggestion yes thank you very much pete uh marcus westbrook yeah magnus westland here um i i think i think avt core is a good next steps and there maybe you can try to explain your use case for this and how it actually relates because if you have like the mains exist mostly in this type of different centralized conferencing etc if it's not iptv i wonder because there's as i wrote in the latest email there's multi-stream aspect of this which makes doing this across all the media streams blindly is unoptimized in many ways and lose you more calls than doing it in the media where an application aware way so i think there's a question saying what are you really trying to accomplish here what are you what do you actually need so but i think abd core is a reasonable place to discuss in this but it comes to rp and the usage and architectural question here yeah um so i mainly want to you know to use those bits in the network layer uh when our congestion happens just to randomly instead of randomly discarding packets it may you know now if the routers is able to know which packet is more important for decoding end to improve the user's end of quality or quality of experience maybe it's better to yeah what's yeah i still think you need to explain what application is in usage because to me it looks like in those application i know that uses rtp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "trying to do this in this way is probably sub-optimal so yeah all right okay thank you thank you um the uh if the goal is to um make sure that uh that delivery is optimal then i don't think you want to restrict your your focus to just dscps because what we found is that um layer two can also create a lot of problems um when it comes to prioritization so if you really want to look at the delivery to be optimized and what should be dropped you should also look at things like you know wi-fi upstream priorities and even in mobile networks you know look at the more complicated ways that rands can can also prioritize things so i don't think dscp is really going to give a lot of benefits to especially since it's usually not carried through interoperably across a large segment of the network um so if you really want to optimize the prioritization you need to look at all network layers and see where priority lives at all those layers and give some guidance at each layer yeah yeah thank you for commenting i agree like dscp may have remarking issues so it won't carry all the weight from end to end um yeah i will probably need to consider if there is other fields in the ip protocol which can carry this kind of information that could be leveraged by uh network nodes thank you thank you very much for questions hey there's um quite a bit of a saying tsv working group so if you could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "express your opinion on the dispatch question and those options as well that would be really helpful to people in the queue thank you it's mira yeah hi mia could have been i agree so the for the dispatch option um going to avt core or to um tcp wwg would be fine um if you go there i want to add to magnus comment that i think it's not only about the use case it's only about showing data that this is actually improvement because um usually the the video streaming is adaptive so like you shouldn't have long periods of congestion it's like a few packet loss that you try to optimize for not sure if you actually gain much performance by that yeah yeah i agree like for adaptive if the network congestion can be fed to information fat to the source it will cut down the rate yes and i'm talking about for like those short time period where congestion is not aware to the source if the network could optimize this kind of packet dropping yeah but like ideally that's really like a very short period of time just like a few packets and then there's also ecn you can use to avoid packet drop at all so i'm not sure that like this is the best solution yeah eason is also to reflect on our congestion yes okay thank you very much um next we have omir shapira hello i'm sorry i cannot hear you omar shapiro apple uh plus one to what uh what had been said before that uh the this pivots probably should belong to traffic but to transfer but additionally uh the concept of service classes is not limited to video other transport streams may benefit from that and additionally the notion that udp is not sensitive to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "reordering may be true for some protocols running on udp but i find it difficult to generalize for example quick maybe more uh sensitive to uh to reordering and the router may not know the difference between quick and rtb thank you yes thanks for coming i'm aware of those issues yeah thomas eckhart future way so to miriam's comment of whether this is uh you know important or not um there have been you know um good good results from the past shown that it obviously is valuable because the impact of losing even a single packet of a reference frame like an iframe in a video stream may cause a complete interruption blackout of a video stream for a whole group of pictures which for example in something like dish networks has been up to five seconds whereas a similar loss of a packet for a non-reference frame like a pre-frame just causes a blip that any good setup box can hide from you so there is a totally different degree of impact of even very short packet losses and you know even with ecn we've seen that we can't completely avoid any loss so i think you know managing that loss in this manner is a highly valuable thing to do especially the more you're getting into real-time and non-delay thanks taurus thank you very much and just to say that i'm hearing that it sounds like a lot of support from this abg core and tsb working group once the use case and performance gains have been clarified if you disagree with that summary please come up to the mic and express that if you agree then also please come up to the mic or put it on jabba and express that view next in the queue is jonathan lennox yes jonathan lennox um yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "to the dispatch point as an apt court chair i say this is i think this would be entirely in scope of abt car i mean again with the dsvwg doing the diffserv parts um to the use case point i think um it depends the um assumption the network assumptions you get for like set-top box streaming versus interactive video conferencing are quite different and i think that if you're looking at a set-top box streaming type use case i think this might be more i mean i think this might make more sense than um the interactive video conferencing types cases um where you do have um typically you have free transmissions and you have much more dynamic uh codec adjustments um so i'm not sure what somebody i guess that gets the point of what your use case is here thanks thank you okay thank you very much we have exhausted you so just to summarize um update those aspects and then take it to av and tsp working group for the dsp cpu and specific aspects um so that's the end of the part of the meeting at the moment so just to run through a summary of the dispatch outcomes which we will also email to the list and make sure the minutes fully reflect this and the bar a dispatch outcome there's a possible working group or discussion forum on this topic because it repeatedly comes up but not necessarily this exact proposal there is a consensus that it needs to be um more widely applicable and implemented more widely than only one um party therefore that outcome is to find more supporters and return with this proposal possibly others for working group scoping on bronze item transparently decrypting uris the outcome was that the work is worth doing there are more specifics that need detailing so it can be properly assessed and sent to the right place since we were hearing differences between s mime or http kind of similarities so come back with a draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "on the web feeder reader dispatch outcome very simple create a non-working group mailing list on this topic for the uuid dispatch outcome there's some weak support for a working group performing a tightly focused or a longer term caretaker for uuids and maintenance of the drafts and so that will go to the dispatch mailing list to find volunteers to form a charter and flesh out which of those two options it would be and then finally discarding priority of rtp video packets the dispatch outcome was the use case needs clarifying gains and performance need clearly demonstrating and then once those aspects have been updated to take it to abt core and tsp working group which for the dscp specific aspects so that's a rundown of our um dispatch session today thanks to everyone who presented it's always really nice to see new work coming to the ietf really grateful for you bringing your time and effort to us and at this point we'll shift into the art area portion of the meeting so i'll just share the slides and then hand over to mary thank you thank you uh you can go to the next one um i'm marie kucharabi one of your two area directors francesca couldn't be here because she is uh on maternity leave i was hoping to have a photo of a newborn to all share with you but that has probably not happened yet um a quick update on some meetings of interest coming of interest to this area we have you can see the list here um the ones the couple that i want to point out um tigris is a brand new working group meeting this week um mock isn't going to attempt to create a bar uh it's a working group creating buff that might also be of interest to this area and we have the usual litany at the bottom as well mimi i think you wanted to say something we'll give you a slot in aob after i'm done my little bit next please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "um so some just some comments from us next slide please uh errata people in this room may or may not know about errata it is a service a record keeping service provided by the rfc editor about documents that have already been published but they need to have some kind of correction made to them or on the record so that people know there are corrections that have been recorded that you might need to know if you're implementing this specification they can be also folded in later on if there's an update document done for uh like a best document that you've seen coming through they're used for editorial mistakes and if the document as published did not correctly capture the consensus of the working group you don't use a naradam for saying i think it should be something else we will reject those uh next please these have historically uh the atom once processed is either rejected because it's wrong or improperly used it's verified meaning we've confirmed that this is true this should be properly recorded and possibly processed later the third state is hfdu which sean turner says hold for the death of the universe but it's hold for document update wait for the next version before you actually do any something with it um these are often left neglected and not actually processed what you see here is the number of unprocessed in each of the three areas for art and its previous versions are apps and rye so we have a large body of work that hasn't been looked at yet this is just historically something that we haven't paid much attention to but they do need to get processed uh sooner or later so some of these art ones are for current working groups and so you can actually go and see if there's something here you could help us process as working group chairs or document authors and see you may have been notified that there's one filed against one of your documents i'll be starting to process these slowly myself as much as i can we can't rely on the current working groups to worry about errata from working groups that are gone or documents that were sponsored by ads and had no working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "groups but anybody who has in a working group where you could help us start processing some of these on your own it would be great working group chairs if you have the bandwidth to do that um next slide please any questions on errata before i go on okay i didn't think there would be too much of that um this is the usual call for help for various roles within the ietf and within the art area we need more volunteers to do the work that is that is uh the work of the area um it's not always working group chairs although that's the common thing that we're asking for but um you know if you want to be involved in reviewing uh requests from ayanna registries of media types is the big favorite one um uh ned fried is no longer with us he was the champion of that one for many many years uh there's we're down to two people one of them is me and i'm not supposed to be doing them while i'm an area director so it would be great to have additional help if you're interested in uh shepherding documents he doesn't have to working group chairs are not the only people allowed to shepherd documents if you want to try to get you introduced to the process that way talk to your working group chair about being willing to shepherd something working group secretary is a role that doesn't always appear but uh help the chairs by recording consensus of of your meetings um keeping track of issues in the trackers that sort of thing please volunteer for that area review teams we have art art the art area review team could use more people and of course working group chairs if you're interested in learning more about the mechanics of how the work gets done here you want to be more involved in it talk to your working group chairs talk to me talk to any experienced ietf or and we can we can point you out ways to get involved or if you know someone who might fit this description we would love the extra help and to breed new talent next slide please uh the art area review team i just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "mentioned uh this is an extremely useful to the area directors uh team of reviewers that look at documents mostly coming from other areas that are um that may have aspects that touch art and should get proper consideration i don't remember the size of the current pool of reviewers it's you can find it online they do they've done 28 reviews for us in the last three months about 91 total in the last year i looked to see if i could see credit one person with having done way more than everybody else but it is a pretty fairly even distribution everybody's done maybe three to four this year um thank you to those people who provide that service it is very helpful to us at during document reviews to have an extra perspective and if you're interested in participating in this barry is here and he's the current coordinator of art art and he would love to talk to you and uh last slide go ahead sorry so if you wanted to make a point on this side barry go for it this is barry lieber well i guess i wanted to say something murray said about the previous slide also actually could you kirsty can you go back this one it was oh yes volunteering as a working group chair when i was an ad i was looking for the same thing of course and what i want to stress is that even if it's not necessarily that there's a particular working group that needs a chair right now that you can volunteer for although that but also just let murray and and francesca or whatever your area directors are um that that you'd like to be considered as a working group chair in the future when the need arises because we're always looking for a pool of people to call on who might be new chairs who might not have chaired for a while and that sort of thing and then back to the art art thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "what i try to do is do a little i look at the documents quickly first and assign only ones that um that look like they would benefit particularly from an art area review so unlike security directorate for instance that tries to review every document going through there are a lot of documents that in in internet area routing area in uh with yang models and stuff like that that i decide we don't really need an art review of so it's it's a pretty low effort thing it you just get a review assigned to you infrequently and then it's pretty easy so please let me know if you are not already on the list and you would like to be um and the ads would really appreciate the extra help we definitely do and last slide i think is just to catch up on uh we have um folded the internet excuse me the internationalization directorate into the art area that was announced about 10 days ago i think the current reviews the i18 ender used to conduct internationalization framework reviews for documents that need them eai unicode and so forth um the current chair of the 18 i18n directorate needs to move on to other duties so we have folded them in that has happened just in case anyone missed the announcement um there is a breakfast for the art art team which now includes both organizations wednesday morning it's in the agenda if you haven't seen that we'll try to get some remote participation because i think actually almost none of the internationalization people could make it this time but we'll at least set up a laptop in the corner or something like that so that they can say hello and participate in any conversation uh any questions for for your solo ad this time i could do an open mic before the plenary um no that's it then thanks christy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "thank you mary very brave to open yourself up for a mini plenary in um the art area meeting but seeing no one in the queue and no nothing in chapel either so we can conclude the meeting give participants in the room and online 14 minutes back just to say thank you oh no okay can i have five minutes give a preview on spin and ask people to come to me me buff okay i'll do it from here yeah so uh i submitted a draft called spin um but let me give a little context on the problem uh the problem we're facing is that uh you know ietf has been working for decades on interoperability for voice and video communication uh between different providers this has been pretty successful in some areas but has totally failed when it comes to app to app interoperability meaning like can you make a video call between say skype and facetime you cannot can you send messaging from wire to signal no right no can't do that um what's app to webex call no no so none of that works um and that's mostly for business commercial reasons uh there's a recently a new ray of hope that such a thing might someday happen due to some european regulation called the digital markets act that recently is passed or getting passed or something of that sort and so in response largely to that a bunch of folks i know rowan wrote some documents and i wrote this document called spin that's poking at different things that need to happen to provide a modern solution for voice video and messaging interoperability between say uh you know facetime and a skype or whatever so that's the topic of the spin draft there seems to be quite a bit of interest on the list we're obviously not going to discuss that here in dispatch but there is a buff called mimi it's a side meeting which is you know a buff with a lesser"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "room i don't know but it's a side meeting uh today what time was it ron 4 4 p.m today in which room sorry philadelphia south so downstairs mezzanine level so if you're interested in this topic uh we'll have this buff rowan set it up we're going to try and largely frame up a buff for next ietf or engage interest and i'm particularly interested the hard part of this is getting the big players to adopt it so if anyone's here from google's or apples or primarily the ones that need to be interested in this thing to make it successful i'm super interested to talk to you please come to that buff that's it thank you thank you very much jonathan sorry jonathan said something which i did not hears is there remote participation in the side meetings yes says rohan mahi all right on the mimi mailing list and in the side meetings portion of the wiki i am now the rowan mahi translator how sad that is all right thanks folks thank you very much for sharing that and yeah that was just what i was going to ask if there's remote participation webex details have been sent earlier today on those lists and in those places so thank you very much for bringing that and um we'll give you now 11 minutes back of your of your time thanks so much for coming to dispatch as always thanks for your energy and opinions in the room on the mailing list and from virtual participants as well so thanks everyone have a nice evening night day morning wherever you are thank you very much [Applause] left"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:10",
    "text": "thank you for bearing with me then i can just do the same thing you have to do while you're gone but now that they're older [Music] let's see you"
  }
]
