[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "Lu and Joel is our new co-chair and he\u0027s on meet out Co right now listening thank you welcome to all verbally this thing the new note well as you\u0027ve seen this all before it is any contribution excuse any anything you say here is considered an IDF contribution there\u0027s of course we\u0027re using audio and Medeco it is being recorded the video will be posted on YouTube afterwards blue sheets are being passed around or will be shortly please take time to sign them there\u0027s okay it can we ask for one more person to join the etherpad or level can I ask one for someone else to please can someone join me prepared to help us take notes any volunteers for etherpad note-taking all right thank York the online agenda the agenda has been posted online and of course the it\u0027s also a data tracker and tools page as well oh and when you if you do approach the microphone to say something be sure to come to microphones to speak the individuals that are on Medeco would cannot hear the comments unless there\u0027s you know spoken clearly into the microphones and also be sure to state your name at the beginning of your comment again this is session two so the chairs will spend ten minutes we\u0027re halfway through that probably setting it up doing a session intro or into and then we\u0027ll have a presentation from Martin on the how were resolved in last call comments for the scheme amount draft and then presentations from both Lada and Martin on to proposals for long-term solutions and there will be time at the end for open discussion would anybody else like to propose something for the agenda we said yesterday that if we somehow ended up with extra time that we would bring in Alex\u0027s presentation if he\u0027s still here I didn\u0027t see them right all right so we\u0027ll see what happens at the end and we\u0027ll play that one by ear okay so quickly from a process perspective the publication of the scheme amount drafts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "is moving forward I think everyone saw benoit\u0027s email posted to the net mod knowing list was it yesterday there is a new proposal for how to address the last call comments as you\u0027ve probably seen there was some discussion around the zero a draft and and how to progress it on what was it the Welcome Reception Sunday night a number of motivated individuals decided to see if we can do something better and a last-minute scramble essentially resulted in updated drafts not just as an amount draft but also all the dependent drafts which were in RFC editor q fortunately all those dependencies and blockages have been resolved and in fact those drafts are as I understand are saying RFC editor q the only changes were in examples and so that\u0027s that\u0027s moving one quickly and so there was a 0-9 draft that was opposed to it I was it Tuesday night and that draft will go through another last call or group last call so that everyone has an opportunity to discuss it on list we hope everyone will be satisfied with the current draft and I\u0027ll go quickly and then for the long-term solution were of course in this session we\u0027re initiating that discussion and you met a preferred approach for how to move forward long term anything okay but if there\u0027s questions were happy to entertain questions on process now Martin\u0027s going to go through what the changes are yeah that should be a technical conversation so now is the opportunity if you want to have any process discussion we\u0027re hoping there\u0027s none but you know we\u0027re open to it if anyone has any questions or wants make any comments and we have the AR ad here and we\u0027re ready to talk if there\u0027s anything so we have our plan okay good man maybe the last point I could make is I mean of course we are Act we\u0027re good the two-week last call but we also hope to expedite the shepherd right up and getting into the RFC editor as quickly as possible and so that way these drafts have been waiting in the miss ref a state can be published as quickly as possible and with that the first presenter is Martin get the right one yep okay so this is the presentation of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "the draft that was posted earlier this week it\u0027s all nine draft so the changes from the previous version that was last call is that essentially we removed the top-level schema structure that came from the old young library version and instead say that every time I have a schema it\u0027s going to be available under the mouth point so the details are that we remove the schema sub tree we remove the youth schema method so we had in line a new schema before in line works as it didn\u0027t know it better better okay we\u0027re gonna speak close to the mic so the youth schema method is removed and rather it\u0027s replaced with a new method called shared schema but past the same semantics as you see males to have but instead of having a reference up to the top-level schema tree the schema is available in line or under the mount point but it has to be the same for all instances of this mount point so in both the inline and shared schema case the yang libraries instantiate that are under the mount point in the shirt schema case the same instance is available under each the same instance of young libraries available under each month for instance and the parent reference that we used to have in your schema it works just like it did in your schema for the new shared schema is so this is a picture of the new tree we have the prefix to namespace mapping as before the global mount point list as before the the last case down here is the shared schema case which just has a container charge scheme and then the parent references so this tree is very similar to the money in await except that the top-level scheme is removed okay so one important point here is that this document now allow allows any version of the yang library to be instantiated under the mount point so if you have a pre nmda server you\u0027re allowed to use the old young library of course for your top level stuff but also for what\u0027s mounted under an amount point where as an Emily server "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:10",
    "text": "can use the new memory ok small point but the inline HR schema cases are presents containers rather than beliefs and this is to have some future enhancements possible we make that possible to future enhancements and another important point that also you mentioned is that Ellen Ellen E and an I documents they do not have to change significantly we change the term as I said use schemas marco share scheme and and they have to update the examples but that is basically it I think that\u0027s the last slide why aren\u0027t you taking questions now sure I can\u0027t as a contributor um with the shared scheme of being a presence containers that necessary when it has a leaf underneath it to non-mandatory leaf so we\u0027ve seen it already has the semantics of they looking for no because the leaf it\u0027s actually leaf list and it\u0027s not mandatory so you don\u0027t have to have any parent references and so if charge demos just container you couldn\u0027t you couldn\u0027t create it unless you also created a parent reference and we don\u0027t want to do that ok or we don\u0027t want to require that there\u0027s also the inline point you\u0027ve got a privately if you want to make that the inline point containers that are just empty leaves yes Oh mate so now we have in the shared schema case we have the print reference may be turns out that pant reference might be a good thing also in the inline case so by having the containers we ensure that we could add that in the future without breaking the module or anything else and not just other containers but containers inside a choice so new or new things to be added later on new things come about it I mean new case is compounded and new stuff underneath those container containers can bad ok so any other questions about the solution this last night I think I\u0027m here now this is lot of so that must mean it\u0027s time for a lot of speech well this is let\u0027s make sure we actually in terms of next steps I\u0027ve seen some edits from cams right in the middle east\u0027s I believe so you\u0027re going to post a new version the document right up I don\u0027t know no a new version then two weeks that\u0027s called and the right option C yes okay so start working AB last call what will need to be as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:12",
    "text": "your okay maybe not or I guess maybe look oh my comes can already be thought of it\u0027s less well that\u0027s right on Zerona even though we can do a one of the chairs there\u0027ll be two weeks to do a full review and any normal comments that come up can come up certainly your comment could be considered a last call comment and it you know we can discuss it more on list will be a another version if last call demands another version if lascall doesn\u0027t demand another version we\u0027ll go forward with zero night it\u0027s really based on the comments that are received that\u0027s good there is a question from the floor from jabber the first one is we are projected all this material is already uploaded and what is being projected is the same as data tracker but go to session to not session one and then Joe last question is their approach described in Section six sufficient to implement the nmda and non NMDA case is what is 0-9 the document 0 9 sufficient to cover NMDA and not an MBA I think so but again we people need to review and make sure that it\u0027s actually the case yeah so I think I\u0027m willing to be lied to cover that in the document yes okay so Joel if it\u0027s not sufficiently clear you know send a comment unless it will try to authors when we try to make it more so one of the things we didn\u0027t say before just because I think we\u0027re all just so in the mix of it you may have forgotten to say it on the mic or in the session is why we are having the second part of the discussion the reason why we\u0027re having a second part of the discussion is the current solution is viewed as what was sufficient to meet current needs and and and just as importantly be published now and allow us time to figure out what is the best way to support young library Biss and nmda the solution that we\u0027re talking about here was talked about before the sort of breakthrough that happened in net conf in December and so we\u0027re trying to do something why it was discussed in the first net mod session which is moving to a point where we can publish something that maybe isn\u0027t perfect and then immediately start working on the next version and by having something published it gives us room it gives us time to work on the next version which we think will be a better long-term solution so I don\u0027t know if Joel if that\u0027s where you\u0027re getting Joel\u0027s I see Joel says okay thanks of course I have no I wasn\u0027t looking at when he typed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:12",
    "text": "that so I\u0027m not sure if he\u0027s saying it\u0027s what my explanation or something earlier been one again so for most of the images lately we clearly wrote somewhere in the intro this is an MVA compliance right so based on your answer that\u0027s what we want to say and I was just checking that it\u0027s both people and at the end MMD that\u0027s a kind of a key statement right because it\u0027s exactly what you\u0027ve been writing in 67 bits that we must be and they\u0027re compliant it\u0027s not the best solution we know that I\u0027m going to discuss it but it\u0027s the key message so you mean you think we should add something more than we have the same type of tag that we\u0027ve been having like the fusillade the data stack modules but you are Nnamdi a compliant I think you added that didn\u0027t you well section six has it but what I\u0027m saying is that 60 87 biz says that the introduction means to have a statement in it as well it would be caught by the Shepherd writer in review that\u0027s a comment so I just want to be just you Tory I will drop you in email oh right I just want to show that it\u0027s clear that it also works for non and a existence so that you put this in the introduction it needs to be clear that pre NMDA systems would also work people don\u0027t think that an MDS requirement for this I good afternoon can you hear me okay so I\u0027d like to present quite a concrete puzzle for the future but to start with I\u0027d like to I\u0027d like to present some kind of general objective but I hope we can all agree upon it is basically what the pre onine relation of the schema on draft draft contained that then became point of contention during the last few weeks so the idea basically is to do what the use key mechanism of schema mounted in the generate narration but to do it in a way that\u0027s integrated with young library base so that it\u0027s it\u0027s them much more compact and hopefully easier to understand so the idea basically to have some possibility in yang why bury an optional possibility I must say so it\u0027s not necessary that everybody uses it so that we want to augment ink library I mean the angle where based the new version and MDA compatible and so that we can then embed a schema anywhere in in the parents tree which is what we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "are trying to do it in the u schema approach of scheme amount that has been abundant in in the version that Martin just presented so I hope that Martin\u0027s proposal later on will basically be along these lines as well so I\u0027d like to ask if there are any objections to this objective if not so let me now present my proposed solution which is actually also quite similar to the u schema mechanism but this time it\u0027s completely independent on what\u0027s described in the new schema mount draft so this will be just an independent mechanism that basically can be used along with or just either/or with schema mount as necessary many aspects of my solutions are intentionally similar to yin augments I believe that this is quite important and useful in that it helps to understand the concept so if somebody only knows how opens work in yang it shouldn\u0027t be very difficult to understand how this embedded schema mechanism works and for to makers it\u0027s also important that tools can reuse most of the functions that must already be there in order to support augments I checked my code so this would be very very easy expansion actually so it will be much harder in fact to implement the new yang mileage I also plan to do but this addition this augment of the new yang library will be its implementation would be rather trivial so in particular what what it means for this embedded schema which can be also called external augment perhaps so what it means in in particular it means that as you will see the target note of the parent schema which means it\u0027s the root node under which the embedded schema resides is in this case identified using a schema note identifier that\u0027s included along with the specification of the embedded schema I will show some examples later this also means that now yang expansion like mount point in scheme amount is needed it really works like like an augment in the same way as augment that also is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:13",
    "text": "schema not identifier so it\u0027s the same here and another advantage over perhaps the schema mount solution presented earlier is that the overall schema can be described in a compact form so we needn\u0027t care about any data stores like operation of a the schema mount VM that it had however is supposed to be found so it\u0027s really it can be also saved in a file so this might really help in the case that Barash presented yesterday about young instance data services may be much more suitable for this purpose we can also publish such augmented hang in library data in in an RFC in order to describe more complex data model and force alone proposes so I tried to work out two examples one of them okay sorry this is just this shows what the augment that I\u0027m talking about really means so you can see it here on on the ask a tree basically what\u0027s what\u0027s in both face is the augment and the rest is just the normal young library this schema and I am only showing the part that\u0027s really augmented and this is the schema container in library base so as you can see apart from the stuff that was already there it\u0027s the name of the schema and reference to a module set for that schema there\u0027s a new container called embedded schemas and again you can see it\u0027s quite similar to what we had in schema mount before so first of all we can define some prefix to namespace mappings that we need that we will need for specifying the target using the schema no identifier but also for specifying the parent reference and that when when condition if necessary these are both some of the target leaf is mandatory so what this means is that apart from the previous solution from scheme amount the you schema I thought that had Martin explained that separate list of schemas that was removed now in the 0-9 version of scheme amount so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:16",
    "text": "now point directly to schemas in hangover so we don\u0027t have any separate place of schemas so it\u0027s quite nicely integrated with with the Eng library and this setup also means that we can embed the schemas recursively so and embedded schemas can contain again this same structure to define embedded skin over the second level and so on any questions to this schema I would like to point out that it\u0027s really quite similar to an augment so this target note is what we had in as the as the parameter of an augment this is the target note for for embedding the schema we can also have this however you schema is the reference to one of the schemas that are defined in a list the one condition is the same as in an augment so it will have completely identical XPath context for evaluation and so on and these two are things come from scheme among basically it\u0027s the config config flag but can specify whether the embodied schema will be completely wrecked only or not and found references again identical to what we have seen in scheme among this helps to include some notes from the pants from the parent instance tree to the embedded beta tree here and just a clarify I think I only asked this that just this means that you could embed a schema anywhere which we are so stretch the idea I have my last slide we\u0027ll discuss this issue so we can even come back to it Jason stars you have a list of embedded schemas with the target as the key so I mean we could only embed one schema at a particular node mmm we\u0027re trying to put something on beer and I\u0027m just trying to think if you try to put multiple schemas or Rosina inside that insight so okay your target defines a in a schema okay of course also we could actually have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:33",
    "text": "number of modules inside the same schema so this can be I don\u0027t know maybe this could also of course be changed to allow explicitly multiple schemas at the same target but I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s necessary Martin so Jason\u0027s point I mean you wouldn\u0027t with this proposal you would not support what we have today with in life and that any use case requires where you could have possibly different schemas at different instances of the same amount points no this explicitly does not support this annoying case yeah so it\u0027s it\u0027s completely because I suppose that schema monk will be able to support these requirements I mean the in line schema so this is not necessarily you you see this as an addition to the existing in a LAN so this would be used for something else so the given one that we have now yes it\u0027s quite possible to work on the existing schema month to improve it somehow for the future that\u0027s fine but that\u0027s the in line basically both of the methods are the former inline method so I believe that will be one on disability that beta model developers can use and this will be another possibility that\u0027s really much more alike some kind of an external augment or an augment with an external specified target note so so yes so this in this case we are just manipulating the schema so in the same way as an augment if we augment say a list note than the schema for all list entries is still the same you\u0027re saying that this proposal will love it will not be instead of whatever I so this is just some alternative method for for creating the data model from from the angle use yeah okay I\u0027m being slow on young library best what\u0027s a schema node ID well that\u0027s a type that I just created for this purpose but it\u0027s the schema node ID that we use for all and so it\u0027s the same syntax as we use in in the augment okay deokman parameter right so it will be some slash separately so it\u0027s same as an augment [Music] and so the first example I have I read it away new schema that we now have in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:33",
    "text": "the schema one graft so basically the main difference is here in the bold face again so instead of using some reference to two young extension like mount point what we have in schema mount it\u0027s explicitly written using some so here\u0027s an example I just came a note identifier again we are using the prefixes that are defined in this namespace list but this namespace list is not just for the purpose of this target specification is also useful parent references here it\u0027s not anything extra so as you can see the embedded schema is defined somehow so this Elleni module is module set that contains all that is necessary and then we define the parent table schema that\u0027s almost the same as before but now we have this embedded schemas container that defines that points to the elleny scheme up and trail of the schema list and also specifies where the new schema should be attached any questions comments to this jason and yesterday during balázs presentation i also briefly commented on the possibility of using such a mechanism for validating his instance beta snippets using standard en true so this is just a simple mock-up how this could work so polish would have in his draft this module that could contain something else but what we mean here is just the container instance data which is the wrapper for for the instance data as you probably remember from yesterday and the container will be empty in this case because this is the place where we want to embed other schemas and then the schema part of en this would be like this so the parent module in this case will be that previous travel module that contains only the instance data container and then we define oh sorry this is the schema that we want to embed so it cannot contain any what you said module sets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:33",
    "text": "whiteness here indicated by and in modules and this here is the parent schema that it has this trivial welcome just the container instance data and then we in an but the the schema that\u0027s called arbitrary schema here and the target for this embedding will be exactly that instance data container so this way we can really achieve what mirage showed us today in his examples and then if our to support being all abilities and this mechanism we can easily validate the documents the instant later container and that\u0027s some basic arbitrary data so any questions to this row Bolton just one comment I think it\u0027s obvious but just against resetting see here not only would you be standardizing young modules now we also have to be including or standardizing some instance data to suggest or recommend they used sorry sorry so you know might be you know need draft you\u0027d have to be standardizing not just the young module itself yes so this will be the augment or feeling very basically in this module so you de clued in they RFC\u0027s these examples of how you imagine it\u0027s not to be mounted yes yes so we could include examples in I mean instance that data examples using conventional Rob how does that differ from what is in the L\u0026E and ni documents so in the enemy and then I addressed today you have a mount point that says this is where we\u0027re going to mount this information whereas in this solution you don\u0027t have that mount point that disappears and instead you have a young library file that describes what a server was doing this equivalent thing would also have seed you\u0027d have to put that in the draft as an example or what is example text I actually was going to bring up a comment that was made in one of the interims which is directly related to that is in this case he still would be a you would have a node that becomes a mount point so you\u0027d have let\u0027s say a container that becomes a mountain point so it\u0027s not that the the base model that it\u0027s getting augmented with with amount still has it have a node correct or are you gonna actually great to know I would like to prefer not to call it mount point or anything or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "you can use that because I think it\u0027s I don\u0027t know I was gonna just make the comment that was made in the intro where there\u0027s concern about I think what that would allow is is mixing of that node that you\u0027re augmenting could have other children and so you could be mixing schemas together the the base one plus the one that\u0027s being augmented and there was some concern that that might not that could lead to a confusion and to added complexity and I believe the net the response to that is well that could be the designers choice on how to do that and they and I think the counter to that was in rather than have a convention it would despi put better to put it in a restriction and that\u0027s why we had enough where we were today but I\u0027m not saying we have to end up at the same point but it\u0027s good just to remember the comments that were business so loose of which design you talking about there is the designer of personal modules to the augmenting or amount being mapped onto the base not the base model with this you now to put stuff anyway well that that was the concern the concern is is that might end up getting rather messy and both from the implementer standpoint and the client standpoint having basically this overlaid it almost becomes like a union now by it my responses to this are on the next slide okay I don\u0027t know Balaji did you have any comment yes it is the intention if and when needed an instance data can be part of a formal description of what we want so I feel no problem with is to take a big prescriptive part of any RFC if we okay now we have this issue of keema note identify us versus an extension that\u0027s used in in scheme amount so that\u0027s the difference the first sentence just summarizes the difference here we use schema old identifies where a scheme amount uses amount extension and indeed there was such concern that this schema not identify us just a low for having the root of the embedded schema anywhere as the schema mount or mount point extension basically shows all the places rather than this can happen however I have three replies to this first of all augments as we know them and love them also use keema note identifiers we could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:35",
    "text": "possibly design augments in the same way to use some extension or whatever to indicate the locations that can be augmented we didn\u0027t do that and in Maya doesn\u0027t seem necessary to formally indicate all places in the the Augmented module that that that may receive some external data as some kind of augment points so I believe if it\u0027s not necessary here either and the situation is pretty much the same and and then regarding that extension or some other tag that would just label some modes as candidates for for someone that it schemas I believe that in fact the presence of such an extension or tack doesn\u0027t guarantee that something really appears at that place which is probably what was the idea of the design time scheme amount originally that still described in in the scheme among draft but we are not doing this here this really requires changes to to yang itself so what we are doing here is really some augment that with the target not specified externally and in this case even if we had some some extension indicating the candidates for schema embedding it doesn\u0027t mean that something really ends up there because it\u0027s up to the implementer that composes the young library data they tell whether this mount point or whatever is used or not so it doesn\u0027t guarantee that something of is there and or the on the other hand it also doesn\u0027t guarantee that some external stuff does not end up in other places that are not tagged with this extension or whatever because we have the good old augments and the implementer again can use augments to stuff an so I don\u0027t see a really compelling reason to not to permit it here I believe that some implementers usually want to do something that will work for further devices and it means they will not be doing silly things like putting some stuff in arbitrary places but in fact if the implementer is crazy he or she can do it easily with scheme of non point extensions as well so so I believe there is no real danger that this can be somehow add more complexity and as I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:37",
    "text": "said a good point of this is that most of the concepts are already present in augments and they are reasonably good understood and for to makers this film I would argue they shall mean even less complexity because most of the functions like passing the scheme are not identifiers and locating the target notes should be already present in their code Martin just a comment about the comparison with the mind movement is different because when you have meant something you build up to the schema that you\u0027re met first in this case where you have Mountain schema they work in some kind of a jail situation where you can\u0027t do references to the rest of this game at all you can\u0027t just implement this the same way you would augment it needs something else it\u0027s just just a comment but it is different done yes of course that\u0027s true that\u0027s true because it\u0027s the modulo author who writes an augment or they by specifying the target note the author already knows where it will be placed so it can just write XPath expression that that just extend this target note path and and so that\u0027s right so my point here is that from from the point of view of the recipient module it really doesn\u0027t matter because we don\u0027t have any indication of possible places for augmenting in in the recipe and modules so we don\u0027t have it here either for sure there are differences like as you said because here we had to have we have to have a complete schema you can have our pcs in the modules that are being him but it so we will have to take some care and maybe apply the principles that we already had in in scheme among so it\u0027s is the friend book but some of the concepts are are really similar to in Oakland but I find I actually don\u0027t agree I think this only means that augmenting or removing embedding a schema is just as a serious decision as defining it out meant or defining any container even if it\u0027s done in runtime the consequences are the same you should take just as much care right so any more comments if not you know I the I it\u0027s Lou I have one comment not so much on the content of the proposal but on the one of the comments you made along the way is is it not supporting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "design timeouts and one of the questions I have for you and for the working group and Australia for Martin is whether or not we want to consider design timeouts as part of this discussion yeah but as I said in any case this really requires the new version of Iain and we have to consider I think the system this is not part of the existing yang architecture and it may interfere in various ways in other mechanisms like augments and so on so if if if there is demand for this you can look at that but this really requires to have a new probably Eng 2.0 something and this this will be much more difficult I believe that than the schema even those key moment wasn\u0027t that easy as it turned out but but I think this is really a massive change to try in fact well I very much hope that by defining instance data and defining instance data for a young library that will cover part of or maybe the full of design time moths you only have to say that this content of the yang library this description of what is mounted where is mandatory for my node or standard note exactly that\u0027s the idea that this instance young library dieter data become part of the data models official part of the data model specification and here I believe that perhaps it would also make sense to declare it to be some kind of metadata rather than just normalize data as it is now so just to be clear for actually you would support the us thinking including design time mounts in a solution as part of this discussion so he\u0027s nodding his head yes for the remote participants yes actually I have some needs that so yes I think that\u0027s actually I would be happy scheme amount either version whose reference instant data state that by defining instance data you actually implement but I believe this is really something different what Lu has in mind probably well I\u0027m not gonna come forward with any proposals in this area so I look over to saying so I think the idea of this design time is that the author of of the of the pant module it explicitly writes the modules or the data model whatever that\u0027s supposed to appear in in some specific locations so it\u0027s the author of the parent module or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "some higher-level authority that coordinates the parent and child modules that\u0027s a different issue it\u0027s a tool to define the box so if I understand it correctly you mean that this young library instance data would be just part of rank but that\u0027s already possible here I believe people agree that include at least the statement about this possibility in the end bouncing normal to dissapoint to go eyes on this doesn\u0027t that mean that like an M\u0026E draft would require any personnel any drop the instance data to list the specific yang modules they\u0027re going to then be or 20 will be mounted into that point yeah but I believe well Eleni can use either that in that inline or this form au schema at least in the previous version this possibility was there and if if we\u0027re this you schema approach then some stay data some instance data are necessary animator specify just a few so I mean blue is contributor as and I authored those documents I don\u0027t think either it would be appropriate in either of those documents actually although I guess we could say that it design time it includes yang library because that\u0027s a requirement of schema amount so that\u0027s one in one form of design time I wouldn\u0027t want to see any others in that document but there\u0027s been other documents that have come up now working groups that people have said well maybe we should use scheme amount here and for example if you have a service module and you want to be able to get down to describing the details of the the network element in that service module it might make more sense to allow for amount at that point and if you were going to mount there you might say here are the ones you have come out and here\u0027s the ones you may and then the others may be implementation specific okay so I worry about gives you a tight coupling between drafts and what roles you don\u0027t necessarily want I didn\u0027t follow the response only concerns me that your parent module is they\u0027re going to have a tight reference to specific revisions of those child modules a whole lot effective you get a lot together I think if you have not detail in there yeah I wouldn\u0027t expect it again I\u0027m not writing any drafts right now that use this but I could see it just why would it be module sorry version specific there because that\u0027s what the instance would naturally give you I think I think that the ni-ni data model can be done in a similar way as the Ellen when you\u0027ll basically just by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:40",
    "text": "specifying appropriate modules that that are useful for the like in case so it should be similar to this basically in Oakland I mean you also have in the scheme I have things like deviations and features and they probably know those to the instance documenting in the ER seis and then we would have to say that the instance document that you include is not really about the device would have it would have something similar and well my real comment was likely about what you said earlier you said or a clarification question you said this would require the inversion of yang what what you know I mean what is known not this but some kind of implement of design time [Music] scheme amount or whatever because we had in the scheme amount we have these three phases so this is about the first that we claim we do not support Indian scheme amount this approach doesn\u0027t support it either directly so that it\u0027s not possible to write in in the parent module what exactly should become where what should be embedded what we use should be pulled in so what this approach does not require any changes to react so now the comment on that is that I think it\u0027s hard to say that something that we don\u0027t know where this would require new version of yang I mean we\u0027re not having a proposal for design time I can imagine there what this is for aluminum so he wanted us to somehow subscribe to the idea of working on this design time approach as well so we can evaluate and see what it is right now I don\u0027t really know comment I was coming I was making as you said it was that implied that it might be out of scope and I\u0027m just asking the question is just the working group wanted in scope or out of scope and I think Martin\u0027s suggestion of you know if someone wants to come up with proposal and they\u0027re more evaluated in context makes perfect sense I actually with instance data design time is so what you have heard here is the argument but do we really want to prescribe this sorta yes that\u0027s a decision probably not the decision of the parent module but the decision of item the routing work separate RFC the instance data gives you the tools to describe to prescribe a lot a bit nothing but it gives you the tool yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:42",
    "text": "basically it means that if if you write a module the parent module at the same time as these instance later than you can specify anything you want so this design time is more that you write some kind of module and I think the interest data itself probably wanted to just write some text to suggest what you\u0027d find differences rather than being specifically you will see this information when you do free on library you\u0027d expect to find these sorts of things there which would just be a textual description right I think it would be useful really to come up with examples when the design time is something that that\u0027s really not covered by these approaches so that you need to see some use cases for for this design time that run some somewhere on this yeah your timing is perfect we just said we probably have five more hints and then we got to move to Martin so that\u0027s great thank you okay so I will I have just one slide that it\u0027s gonna describe what we have in the or what we had in the pre or nine document that was sent out of the list it\u0027s very similar to what Lara just described with the maybe major change difference is that we still use the mount point extension statements so it\u0027s not open-ended you can only do this where the mount points defined but otherwise and and yeah you can always only do this where you have the non points defined the other difference is that this proposal still supports the inline case as it is so what we have here is that we have the same tree as we\u0027re having in the currents it\u0027s given month document but then we also have this u schema case that has a reference up to the new yang library so this proposal would require the new version of the young library where we can define the schemas in recursive manner so again it\u0027s very similar there the main difference between this one and a lot of just presented is the existence of the mount point extension I would say and that this is an extension of the current "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:45",
    "text": "schema mount solution so what I will have two different ways of doing things and essentially what they solves is that it gives you a way to have when you know that the scheme is the same for all instances of the mount point you can declare it here and not use the inline case but instead have a reference up to the to this schema that you have in a normal young library so in a way it\u0027s an optimization I thought so if I understand it correctly you intend it as a replacement for the current schema mount yeah or rather update to the current I must say I would rather prefer to to PB s-- and this was my position from the beginning as you know to keep this in line and whose kemar whatever approach separate not not to combine it because I believe these are two different two different approaches in the inline case you need some instance data to find the yang like the the ability and library in and so the only use case I can\u0027t think of is that there\u0027s a mouth point that can be used alternatively for for the in line or in scheme approach but yeah we can we can even combine that in this approach and in my product I can use the same mount point as the target for for the embedded schema so that\u0027s super as well so I would really prefer if you do this maybe just to get rid of the choice and use the only use use schema case here this would make the young library simple and I believe the inline case can be covered separately oh yeah so I\u0027m just I\u0027m a bit worried that we\u0027re making the entire thing very complex and complicated by having similar ways of doing one kind of the same thing and this whole scheme a combination thing is quite complicated and so what should people use it\u0027s I mean why do we have many ways are doing almost the same thing what I could see from the previous development of schema mount is that people really were quite often confused they didn\u0027t know what is schema knows what is what is they turn out and I believe by mixing this in line means some instance data manipulation and schema only manipulation is really adds to this confusion confusion I believe if it\u0027s if we have two different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:46",
    "text": "concepts it better to have them separate from separation of here\u0027s all cells so if we find out that something is wrong with one approach we needn\u0027t change the whole thing and influence people that may be interested in the other approach my suggestion is not till different concepts we would have mount point and then this is just this scale amount structure just shows you where you would find the schema either you find it at one point or by reference to to the normal place where you have in schema but I really believe they are two different concepts in in fact I\u0027m saying well so you know I agree that that you were proposal with another schema that is something completely different from the scheme amount that I have so in that sense you\u0027re right there are they are really different things it\u0027s different in the sense that I\u0027m using that schema not identifier and the solution uses still some some expansion so we can also do it to define another extension for for this embedded schema approach and so that these two cases would also be separate and and then we can do it basically without being right so that only won\u0027t be combined under one the an extension or change it would be a good thing but as I try to explain I don\u0027t think that the extension is do you mind leaning into the Michael oh but it\u0027s just hard to area shorter guys so if I understand correctly did you did you say that this solution would only be able to be used with the nmda version of yang libraries only not the free it would be used with the new version of young library not necessarily within a day so the new version of keep in mind there\u0027s two parts the discussion now we have a document that\u0027s going through last call in fact joel has already started last call on it this isn\u0027t changing any of that that will work for existing yang library New England this is what\u0027s the right long-term solution and you know certainly even this solution would work fine with with the that does not implement them any day but it does require the new younger library because there is where we have the schema the new schema definition right facility let\u0027s go to the new yang library but you can use it with pre-mba the Cilicians right yes alright that\u0027s that\u0027s the only thing I wanted to make sure we\u0027re still kind of because it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:46",
    "text": "gonna be a while before that stuff okay any other comments oh so I\u0027ve got a point between the two solutions but in it now is the right time to ask it or whether yeah if there\u0027s no more specific comments we\u0027ve been bringing a lot of up also and see where it goes I\u0027m not sure if we\u0027re gonna have any more additional discussion or if we had it already but so from a presentation standpoint Martin is done and now we\u0027re moved on to the open discussion so a lotta if you want to come up you can if you got to stay there that\u0027s fine so so my comment is what I see difference between the two solutions is really the question of how heavyweight is a mount point so if if amount points are heavy weight constructs and you don\u0027t want to have too many mount points you want to sort of limit its usage then I prefer a solution where you have an explicit mount point in the schema so you mark the places the unusual places where you have these map points whereas if you want mount points to be lighter weight and be used a lot more than I think may be the solution that\u0027s not suggesting seems that it sort of suggests that path that you say that the mounts have not a heavyweight thing you expect to be used more frequently more like automates not as frequent automates and then having that flexibility maybe seems easier so my my personal view is I think mount point is a heavier weight mechanism I think that often you end up writing additional code potentially support those places where you see the mount points I don\u0027t know that\u0027s definitely true but that\u0027s what I would imagine for attorneys and ni is you\u0027ve got some code there that\u0027s happening that and hence I see him at work said she\u0027d be a good thing it\u0027s good to mark that and one other comment that I think you could do here is I\u0027m a commission see proves these you can have additional extensions under the map point that are limited whether you could see information either inline or virus schema potentially so in the ni case you might say actually I only ones under scheme it to be available up front I don\u0027t expect it to be available dynamically so that\u0027s one other benefit I think of this solution could be any more comments and scheming are me alright so if not then we do have another 24 minutes in session and we can there\u0027s two items that we didn\u0027t get to yesterday and we could ask for those presentations now so maybe we\u0027ll start with Alex Clem and that I\u0027m a bit afraid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:03",
    "text": "because we see three solutions for scheme amount which was already described as complicated I\u0027m scared think of it this way we we\u0027re at the start of a discussion and we\u0027re at a brainstorming level in it and when we\u0027re brainstorming it\u0027s always good to get out as many ideas as possible and that then as proposals are made and documented we\u0027ll call town and see where the working group takes us but this was the start of a discussion so from my standpoint the more ideas the better at this point the discussion yeah I agree with at the end of the discussion but we\u0027re starting it now first of all that I that\u0027s why I wanted to avoid the term scheme amount so that it\u0027s some new mechanism so we are also complaining that we are adding some new mechanisms apart that that may be competing with augments so and in fact we had all these mechanisms already in the scheme amount zero eight so we are just we are just trying to somehow restructure the whole thing and and provide it in a way that\u0027s easy to understand for for the users whether we succeed or not will be seen what ya know I think if this is the experiment that Benoit was talking about yesterday about being able to finish publisher module and then immediately start thinking about the next revision of it and you know this will be the first the existence proof of that of see how that works I see some people not liking that analogy but sorry that was about models not about Yankee language constructs well we part is a part of what we\u0027re trying to work through as a working group is figuring out how we could do things more quickly and this will be one case of that or maybe the first case of that right so the queue of Alex\u0027s presentation it was presented yesterday in an account working group and at the end of that presentation we pulled the work group to see if who you know who\u0027s interested in the workers you know I think of interest and then would it make sense for it to be in the neck health working group I don\u0027t believe there\u0027s any and were raised and then would it make sense for it to be in the net model working group and there\u0027s I think half of the room raised their hands so the Alex is presenting it here now because it\u0027s the more appropriate working group for the work and but it is the first time it\u0027s being presented here so we understand probably a few of had a chance to look at the raft have already seen it and also would have seen this presentation so I guess one of the next if you do decide to transfer this would be to resubmit this under net mob I suppose and given that it\u0027s basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "the reason track of this nipple is that the core of this is really actually yang data model to define an RPC and they\u0027re such basically it\u0027s it\u0027s not a protocol option never better here so they\u0027re the most basically the thinking of that but so what that is about is basically it\u0027s more comparison play and in da data source so basically what this graph defines is in our PC that it allows to compare and in da data stores the reason is that as information can propagate between the other source there\u0027s a chance for our differences and it\u0027s to exist which can lead to potentially to various a situation it basically require troubleshooting and support so how would you basically detect that you have such such conditions and busy having this having such an operation of such an RPC helps with that to detect issues anything from unexpected failures still time to longer than expected time lag of change propagation to two different origins of information posing operationally this or those sorts of issues so this 0 0 3 in a net bump the changes since Singapore were it was first presented is believed that the draft alpha pains a set of examples it it talks about comparison or earlier it used the formulation discrepancy detection so people didn\u0027t like that that was one thing that we that we removed and one feature in this graph is a dampening feature that allows you to to essentially when you do this comparison a wait for a certain amount of time to see busy if it comparison is only fleeting or whether it persists for a longer period of time the most conditional feature before about based on the discussion that we had on the net contest there is a thing that was felt to help that review remove poverty that is pretty moved to a possible future extension extensions and the younger the model has been a updated accordingly and likewise they were also suggestions made on the tool have also a possibility the possibility of an additional pre-filtering step to exclude data from the comparison that would not be within the scope of both datastore operational data and preparing in conflict false data we preparing a configuration later so you should be basic excluded from the comparison so waiting your next steps there were basically one thing deafening has been has been moved to get the sense that this is the right decision essentially I personally happen to think it\u0027s an interesting feature but sure we will we we can we will simplify this and the second aspect concerns that the original "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:03",
    "text": "discrepancy should be also added so basically that within the differences one should really say also of idea the original that the data that is something that needs to be added and then the remaining question was basically asked for working group adoption which is average snap against the net mob natural in the den looking at that\u0027s Betty all that I have this video is just a tree of the of this data mods very straightforward comment I can you leave the last light on sure so it\u0027s a question actually in terms of the comparison you\u0027re comparing what\u0027s in intended versus what\u0027s an operational I think you may be restricted in terms of how you can make a comparison I think you can probably ask a system to say is everything that\u0027s in intended does that match what\u0027s that that subset conflict or force confer true nodes is that those all in operational potentially I don\u0027t think you necessarily want a better do a full death and the maybe confer the straightest to actually what you actually what you really want to ask the system so it could be that this configuration that\u0027s been I\u0027ve been over in some way through system configuration so I think I haven\u0027t read the rates credit of draft but there may be some nuances in terms of exactly what that comparison is and what it would it makes sense to do that needs to be described and documented who\u0027s not ready alright so there was basing this this one had been basing outlook into this possibilities for future exciting was basically precisely this this point is you what is points the well no sorry actually the last item at the bottom of the I don\u0027t know if I can front at the bottom of as list was basically this pre-filtering step that you I think with this what you\u0027re referring to but use this it\u0027s not so much filled to the data it\u0027s I think it\u0027s actually maybe in other ways is what\u0027s the actual problem being solved and how does this solve a problem I think he\u0027s is maybe we\u0027re getting an answer so so clearly basically the intent well busy the usefulness is for data that propagates from one to the other so in that sense yes you want clearly to compare data there is only subject well that is contained in both data stores not in one versus the other Martin Kirkland I was also going to suggest that you actually maybe that\u0027s her intention who this from a future announcement that actually put it into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "the draft this thing with just comparing the notes that are actually in the scheme able to a playlist worse I think that\u0027s something that you put into the draft okay and I also would like to see what what the thing that Rob merchant where is I think it\u0027s more like except subtraction right so we wanna see what\u0027s intended you want to ensure that everything is intended is actually also in operational yes but it is something in operational was not intended it doesn\u0027t really matter even if it\u0027s has the same scheming alright so even if it\u0027s in the sense it but the schema for intended and in operational still don\u0027t wanna see it in this operation if it came from somewhere else if it\u0027s not I want that computer case so I asked you back I\u0027m busy if you have something that if you\u0027re preparing intended and operational and you\u0027re expecting for is that the operational the original of this indicates that it came from attended because it isn\u0027t in and it however the original says it is from system but intended that is something that would seem interesting in the condition that you would have to know so that\u0027s a discrepancy that if that you want to detect it right my other point was when I read the document I think you need to explain how the filters are supposed to work how the filters are supposed to work what is the service it would I assume about the ideas that you evaluate the filter on one datastore that on the other is that you really apply the same selection specially if you also do this thing with you know pruning sure yes yeah but I think this is important work and I think it should be done yeah thanks so just as those are asking you another example would be for example analysis of interfaces where some of them are explicitly configured and some will create a bus system that you don\u0027t necessarily want that to flag up as being a problem the fact you\u0027ve got a loop back zero interface created or all you had IP addresses that been alert through the HTTP is well essentially configured once you may not be asking show me all those differences or you really want to ask is has all my configuration been successfully applies what you\u0027re trying to make yet outside wait I\u0027m some discussion of those points and consideration that would be a potential useful but again I think this is Jerry so I guess fittingly learn busy we\u0027ll have put the instead of publicness for future possibilities we do this as a picture in the draft all right make sense the prefilter yeah maybe bought me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:04",
    "text": "okay thank you I thought I also support this worker I think it\u0027s it\u0027s really useful and regarding the filters I would suggest maybe to start from something simpler rather than inventing some complicated filtering mechanism perhaps it would be sufficient just to be able to specify the route both of the trees that are to become better maybe depth of the trees just something really simple and then the client can somehow combine the needs and and get the information then that\u0027s necessary right yeah we absolutely want to keep it December we don\u0027t want to invent new constructs but we use the marking but I don\u0027t think they did though they have sub to filter next password which is the standard filters that are using right yes that\u0027s about the same on the other hand I mean you have a choice of the filters right so you can probably have a digital case that is just okay and then the other ones could be right but sub-tree filters are used in in that conf and use XML so if somebody wants to use it in rest conf and in Jason this would create some maybe some some complications I don\u0027t know as I see it the important news cases it seems to me that just some really simple functions could be enough so that I can repeat this compare I thought several times to get the information Martin that additional content that we have some true filter in the next part filtering also the notification drafts are supposed to be call the ostrich okay can we cut the mic there so there\u0027s time for the next presentation thank you Alex you and Igor so just to be clear you\u0027re gonna republish that under net Maude and we\u0027ll discuss here and possibly make updates based on the comments you\u0027ve received yes thank you hi so basically to make it a little faster I\u0027d like to provide the key so the idea that was a part of our design team for campus enhancements but basically that could prove to be very useful in the interactive kind of paradigm network control when the client asks for several configurations that pulls some data States analyze that cause a heart disease make some analysis "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:05",
    "text": "ask the more configuration so forth so there are many important use cases where actually always get data edit config color PC kind of request needs to be matched together push to the server as the server to trigger on a particular specified by the client event and and all of them based on their conditions which involves like a current or historical data space and the whole point of this model that we developed this will enable configuration of such ECA seven condition actions and put them to the server okay so you see basically they have four components what is a wearable it\u0027s it\u0027s a memory it\u0027s a continuous oil keep intermediate results while your conditions and reactions that which could be used for immediate or future condition relation for example if you want to condition certain reactions based on say medium we know a particular data staple is available the place where to keep it and to keep updated over time and policy variables could be just like see where oppose could be mobile shareable between multiple CAS or local a specific only to a particular CA and local both dynamic and Static basic dynamic common goal with each execution and Static survive basically they persistently through the executions so [Music] when is messes around what what kind of use cases you want to consider basically we consider that what we call closed-loop Network automation say there are events where it is very clear what to do in case this event happened and it just was all for the client to say you know whenever you see it sounds odd lacks a favor please you know check this data States and do these actions right then they all go so it is basically sometimes there\u0027s no time for client network negotiation so responsiveness of the network so you do better if you start doing start acting as fast as possible and it also improves skin ability for the client because as soon as the client may delegate certain decisions to the network it can take care of much more things and finally those are use cases when it just free program of logic and push from the client to the server to but if kind of things like for example "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:06",
    "text": "it could be initiated and instructed to a server to say that in case there is a single or double trellis on the network we still managed services will be affected and in fact how they could be recovered but what we passive will take and what those that will be down after so the way basically it could be either explicitly defined event or it could be a young push or smart filter subscribe to trigger so we say that the events mostly defined by the client the condition it\u0027s a logical expression that conditions the logical expression which could be either expressed as a single XPath expression Aria will make just dropped a be XPath expression or it could be simple comparisons that could be compounded you are like three minutes yes and the actions basically that\u0027s what important part we only limit our actions to toe is already impossible to do interact no leverages normal net confer pieces and also our business defined by the model partner by model supported by the sewer but nothing beyond that so there\u0027s no danger to basically to put some garbage beyond what could be done interactively and when he is executed there is also provision of the clean up conditional action released which would basically do all the nest her old web in case one of the actions in the normal list was tried and rejected by the seller that\u0027s actual okay any comments maybe from Nichols Nicola so this was presented in Netcom it seemed that this was just a model based things or applied better to this group from a process standpoint as Kent as the neck off chair what he thinks and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:06",
    "text": "the courtesy had talked about it here in neck off and then we can ask if this group is interested I continue to think that there may be a partial overlap with the fsm work that Nicolas I\u0027ve been working on so then since that works here that would be make sense for at least for now I think continue to to have that discussion how large an overlap is there what\u0027s the opportunity for you know bringing these two ideas together maybe maybe there is maybe there\u0027s them but I think the jury\u0027s still out for me at least do you want so basically first of all but even considering that we have some overlap but for example we can define the same way event what event needs right so in either case we can produce for example we can share but it would be very desirable to continue work on the models at least for now separately and then if it really proves to be that it\u0027s a pic of elavil combined but we want to avoid this in your ugly children that sometimes Parade news when you know decisions marry together and this is randomly currently both in giraffes and continue to be progressing and as we gain further understanding you\u0027ll see the opportunity so we\u0027ll look for the continuing discussion in this working group and there was a poll for in the Netcom Fortin group in a show of hands for you know who thought this was interesting work I guess we should do the same thing here so if you think this is said to be fair people haven\u0027t had a chance to read the document so okay what yeah well the tablet he only had this one presentation but the again the idea of the closed with automation so just from what basis on based on what you\u0027ve heard in this presentation show of hands for who thinks this is interesting work mm-hmm okay if you call it a few or a good number how about a reasonable number a reasonable number frankly it\u0027s more than I expected I think so and we\u0027re right on time I think so so wrap thank you very much for two very good sessions thank you everybody and most importantly let\u0027s let\u0027s note that we have an ad who is has been incredibly supportive and helpful and that he is finishing that role and we have a new ad sitting farther in the back who we look forward to continuing with that trend so thank you both and Benoit we hope you will continue to show and and contribute to this group and that it\u0027s just the change of hats and not the departure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:07",
    "text": "with them or germs [Music] "
  }
]