[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "ah what the hell about the Do Not Disturb I can't join an idea yeah so it's not just me right before I'm on a hotel I was trying Network hmm all right forgive me while I yeah I have some seriously bad oh no I'm back on now all right let's see what happens all right I'm gonna share some pretty fun slides share all right we're back in business all right we got a minute I guess we should make sure that Sergio's here since he's kind of the show there he is um we got about six people in the room some of the usual suspects so that's good um let's get going uh welcome to wish and iatf115 device yep sure I can eat the mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "um hi welcome to IHF uh 115 the wish session um I'm one of the chairs Sean Niels you want to are you able to come off okay hi Niels and the other co-chair all right let's move on to the good stuff this is some meeting tips uh please use the medeco tool to be able to log in that's how we're going to do attendance so next time we can make sure we get the biggest possible room that we can get there are about seven or eight people in here so we won't get the biggest room but that's also how we're going to use the queue to manage the queue to get people in and out to make sure that the remote presenters are and participants are actually equally um supported all right so next we got the ITF nope well it's Thursday hopefully you've seen this before this is primarily um if you know about IPR say something um if you if you can't say anything that's all right just don't say anything um and some other things about anti-harassment code of conduct Etc but we'll go into that a little bit more now this is kind of the code of conduct guidelines this work group has not had any of these problems which is nice to basically cheat everybody with respect you know kind of use your head find the best solution for the whole the internet you know I'll let you read this um so the next slide I think we'll show it is the mass policy everyone in here is massed up if you're remote do what you want but when you're here you need to have a mask on um unless you're you do actually get up here to talk and you're six feet awake no need but um I think we're good all right the agenda pretty straightforward the only thing that we're really going to pause here for is we need a note taker anybody want to do me a favor and take notes we don't need a play-by-play but we do need some notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:15",
    "text": "foreign we're basically just going to note the actual action items um basically we got one sorry sounds good yep I will try to take some notes from you yeah we can we can figure it out between two of us I don't think it's going to be that much discussion hopefully we really got um one thing on tap which is our working group uh draft which is wish whip um we're gonna let Sergio go through I think like one issue we still got about 10 minutes to sign for that and then we have 20 minutes to talk about WEP and uh the rest of the time is kind of to talk about the future and the way forward um and to note if you were a dispatch you've probably seen some of the slides of Sergio's going to talk about but you know again we're we're here doing our thing so we're kind of kind of maybe doing some of the dispatch process um Sergio I will do you want to run the slides or do you want me to do it and you just say next I mean whatever you want I mean I'm happy both ways all right let me let me try to see if I can get them loaded up here and make this work of course it's slow is closed deck see if that works change deck come on computer is that right it's doing something now unable to connect to server not great all right maybe it's better if you try to run them because I'm having some network connections issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "so I'm hoping if you do that because they're loaded up you ought to be able to load them I don't know meals if there's any way you can uh come to the rescue here but I'm unfortunately not able to connect I have them here locally available there we go great all right over to you sir Joe yeah I think that I have been the one that I'm sharing so this is new for me that has this great so this is the we will first start with the with the latest version of the with draft that this is the the five version so the change between the title is wrong should be the changes from zero four to zero five uh mainly we'll say about a some minor field that I have received and some of the some additional changes one some of them that are maybe Brown so we have added the asset the post header in the in the option responses so we can notify that we allow a receiving the application sdp in the post request we have added owns also that the asset asset paths into 101 created responses but I think that this is a this is brown I have sent an email yesterday to the to the mailing list because I think that the way that the draft is playing a is a breeding right now we say that in the 201 response we are going to put the asset patch with the sap fragment and a mime type but this if a death patch header is for the for the URL for that the post was sent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "and not for the warranty in the location so I think that this is brown and has to be reverted but I will like to get some feedback probably from from Adam that he's or some STP http also one with the deeper knowledge of HTTP to see if this has to be reported because is this incorrect or not so there are changes is that mostly their workplace clarification so if they have the way they will resource that no support the patch method at all either for a is a restarts or verticalize you should return a final one um also we have another clarification on when the attack was mandatory and when it is optional and also we when when the the s-canital the ice candidates were of General in the response on the of the 200 okay response um we have also added a note about the calling order of said local description and and the on the HTTP boss the request to avoid ice restarts and also we have added that they prefer options to to configure Ice is to use the information return in a 2001 response and not to rely on the options on making an option request today to the to the web server if it is not really mandatory for the client for the client because it does not support to updated configuration the ISO reconfiguration one say after the third local this return has been it has been created and also there has been fixes in the example uh to make it uh so it was quite in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "another document and also we have made the data an opaque value So to avoid a misinterpretation by implementers and thinking that it has to have some value when it is not meant to to be to have any sense also I have added the Ayana registration based on their feedback and also I've done a lot main acknowledged many section so this is the all the changes that has been done in the in the in the latest draft I think that all of there has been already reviewed and and agreed only either did you have for or the mailing list but I mean if there is any issue with any of these changes I mean just let me know just say pressure I comment in the either in YouTube or when we do the working group last call so the the last slide is about the NS steps that we only have to check the correctness of the asset pads response and if it is not correct just revert the changes so it is removed from the graph and there are appending minor editorial fixed in in the g-hub in the vehicle drop that are not in the zero five drop because I have noticed it after policing it so when we have checked the theft parts and we I will just submit a zero six version and then I think that we should do the working group Last Call on on it I hope that if we can have the asset patch check either during the in this meeting or today or tomorrow I can do the and I can submit the new pen draft during this next week so we can have the working group let's call as soon as possible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "yeah you beat me to it I was going to ask you when we were going to get that so um hey if we're gonna get in the next couple days I would love to be able to go ahead and work last call this starting next week I might give it uh a little extra longer than two week working group last call because of some major American holidays which most people will be Mia on but um definitely I would like to try to if you if you can literally if you can promise me that you'll get it done we can get the working group last call started next week and we can end it sometime in early December I think that would be fantastic is there are there any objections to that uh path of course can't see the job room or anything because my network connection is shot so um unless we see anything we're gonna go okay let's uh let's proceed with that that path Sergio and um okay we can we can switch over to web okay let me see and again so we're we're kind of begging uh begging forgiveness from the working group because technically this is an in scope but since we have you here and we have been talking about this a little bit we're hoping you're willing to indulge the overstepping of the bounds of the charter while we have this discussion I'm trying to police it again no seriously that's nice oh now it's back I know and I think I need to go into I have asked for them to be able to present again but I don't see the end okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:06",
    "text": "good thank you Adam I expect a thorough review of Dash 06 when it comes out during working group last call appreciate it excellent Okay so I want to well I wanted to do on last meeting but we didn't have time for it so I'm just mostly uh going to present the same slides that I did let's say I presented for last last meeting but with minute updates first I know that the grace is explicitly out of its scope of the working group but also uh right now the equivalent graph of a web is a reuse most of the mechanics that has been put in place for Whip and the first drop was mostly mainly yes replacing whip by web and that's all that I I did for work with the first wrap and so why why do we need web why do we need to handle the the play by side or the of the streaming with the webrtc uh first because we are seeing that at least in my side I seen that quite a lot of friends lately to be able to be able to have internet ability between webrtc services and product and mostly I see also a trend that is mostly about having backup solutions that for example being able to switch from webrtc provider to another if and there are there is any downtime in any of them and also to avoid the service login so you can have multiple or you can rely on multiple webrtc services or providers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "without having to be logged in so this is say well this was not the the one of the the initial goals for the um when I pressed when I brought a web since I have that graphene I see a lot of attraction in in that regular also there are other benefits like for example we can reduce the player server the name that can be integrated easily I mean there is for example with them epic that sound I feel like that you don't have to write your own player you just use whatever player is available and there is a quite a lot of my versions either open source of of closures that allows to have a much better a user experience that if you build your own and also this protocol will allow integrating with the impacted us for example this has been a report and when we there has been a joint effort or what they went in the name impact as if to be able to have like a common player that could use both mpegdas and webrtc when you will use webrtc for the live version of the of the stream and you can use it that's version to use the timesheet version of the of the of the screen so you can start watching the one event in in life but you can go back in time and connect to the to the impact Das stream and that it is has when you can just select from what time you want to watch the the screen and with seamless in the same player and also and there is also one very important case that it is a while in traditional in webrtc Services we are running the all the services in either in a native application or in a full browsers there are some devices that don't support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "webrtc very well for example and like the smart TVs when it is going to be much easier to to try to get the TV vendors to support uh yesterday by just having to provide to be able to play a web streams and not have to provide the full flavor apis that it is much difficult to maintain and and and there's some megabyte levels in their apis so now the last thing is that a weapon web could be used together for service in the operating so you can have you have a web service and a web service you can try to to just create a gate with that post do the interoperative it in both so the question is is if we should restart this working groups to uh to include also egress as a scene has said I presented it in this part so Monday um and I think that the construction was that um we should or the work in the with working groups should be able to decide if we want to recharge the the the working group or not and we don't have to go back to this patch and to try to find a way so whatever we decide we are free to to decide if we want to the uh to change the scope of the of the charter and out of the the web the protocol as a working group item so so Adam let me just jump in here real quick so I guess I would I just want to say that I I completely agree with the way Sergio characterized we went to dispatch and they were like why are you coming to us you're already a working group you can just recharge her but they I think in other instances they might have said why didn't why didn't you come to us if you so we kind of got a free pass essentially if the working group decides that we we would like to recharger I think then we just basically have to convince the ad that's the right thing to do and present good text so I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "think that was a fair characterization of what actually happened earlier so Adam get mute unfortunately I can be of no help because I'm off the network again and I can turn on Adam's microphone remotely either so yeah actually well on there oh all right well maybe we'll um try to loop back to Adam and uh Jonathan's in the room and so is Harold so maybe we can give him a little bit of time well Adam are you audible now or should I go ahead okay can you hear me now yes yeah we can great all right I think it did not survive a device earlier in the conference um sorry about that so I'm gonna do a full 180 from what I said last time we had this discussion and and say that I now support although somewhat reluctantly the notion of retartering um to do the web work uh I still have the same concerns last time about um the number of people that it looks like we're going to be able to attract to actually work on this um I'm not going to have more Cycles than I did this first time around um to help move the work along um and it the volume of discussion on the list is still rather slow but I am definitely seeing a lot of interest in the industry for this and people are moving forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "with the protocol uh as specified I see like major service providers already deploying this in like beta trials um and I think it would be far far better to have uh you know a written down and actually gratified version of the protocol as opposed to just having things based on a draft and I can't imagine the better place to do that than this working group um so again it's like I I would love if we could somehow bring these folks into the ietf to help move this work forward so if folks have ideas about how to make that happen it would be great um but yeah it's like I said I I now support adding this to the wish Charter okay great Jonathan yeah Jonathan Lennox I mean I think your analogy was Dash as somewhat convinced me I was sort of dubious before but I think sort of the idea that in browsers this is just implemented in JavaScript though there could be libraries for it but for embedded things it needs to be it can be implemented for real which is easier than letting them run arbitrary JavaScript that seems reasonable my concern I mean and I think the cert the your regular expression at the second bullet is certainly a very easy thing to do um My worry is how much more do we need in particular if we need to be you know Feature Feature equivalent to Dash and basically have let you know that people say well in dash I if I'm doing it over Dash I can do you know subtitles I need to be able to do subtitles in web well that's just one example off the top of my head I don't know why everything that's in dash that's my worry if we end up having to shovel everything in there to get in on how much more work that's going to be I think if this is just the your regular expression this is very easy and it's sort of a no-brainer and I see the benefit to it but I'm worried about how much the scope is going to increase okay yeah the in fact this is in one of my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "last my latest slides about what is the the Delta that we have to to add from uh from web to week because as you have said there are some some functionalities that are specific to to playback that we have not worried yet in in in just size so this is already covered also in the slides later on foreign um this seems to be a simple specification for doing a simple job we have other groups like mock who are trying to build the the grand total solution of changing everything so that so that we can achieve things we cannot do but a simple tool for a simple job we should simple tools need specifications we should specify it go ahead okay all right Timothy yeah 10 pounds in here yeah um I'm in favor of us doing this I think particularly the embedded stuff makes makes sense I have a slight preference for us doing it after we've got got uh whip out the way I kind of can we is there a is a problem with sequencing it so that we don't change the charter until we get whip out the door and by out the door do you mean like RFC number and published or do you mean like through the isg prepared to negotiate on that but I just feel like if we we're short of Cycles then trying to do two things at once seems suicidal okay so I'm so here's what I'm hoping to happen is that Sergio is going to pump out a draft here in the next couple days we're going to run a working group last call when that working group last call completes Niels and I are going to put our head together and flip a coin and figure out who's going to be the shepherd and we're going to push it forward out of the working group and at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "um Charter revisions to look at that because it'll take weeks for that to happen as well so if that is kind of the if we do it at that kind of pace is that kind of work Sean Sean I I have to uh I've done the or started the shepherding for for the wish draft parade so oh so that takes one step out of the way exactly so like I'm waiting basically To Go version 06 and then we're gonna do it shouldn't be done quickly I mean I'm I'm thinking like in the new year we'll we will start uh we'll put up a GitHub repo we'll put in the original charter and then people can start walking away at making changes um so I'm hoping that the changes that we would get via the director reviews and through the isg wouldn't won't be earth-shattering to this so I'm hoping that we won't have a cycle problem but I I do acknowledge that we don't want to do too many things at once here because we're just running out of Cycles from people so let's try to um what we'll do is we'll start the retarding process after we get the document out the door um but nothing to say that Sergio can't we can't keep talking about this uh actually on the list if people do have Cycles Pierce uh yeah it seems uh like the integration with Dash can potentially get to fairly complicated as mentioned some of the um issues around it's all timestamps in media and how you do uh subtitles and everything in some ways it seems as potentially a more a nasty sort of uh part to it whether it be pulled apart and at it as a separate thing I don't know but not quite sure how we separate out but it might get because I would um we're involved in that uh Dash if report that started to try to tackle some of these issues but then um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "it seemed like there was quite a few things to deal with uh I don't know what you think uh Sergio yeah I mean I would like to have the like the basic um media flows established with web and at least I probably on the first draft just because mainly we have already make most of the working whip so yes a happy meeting webpage seems like a very easy leaf then a is bet when we are able to have like a first version of web we can go for example to the back to the Sif and see if adding support for for example subtitles or changes a different or or having multiple audio languages and be able to switch between them makes sense to be done like within the web specification or we will have to or it would if it would be better to to to be a production of the impact does stuff for example the MTD and try to integrate both protocols together so we can reduce some of them so I don't know yet but this is the best of them but I think that if we try to we get some momentum having the the web protocol in in the in draft they are specified it will be much easier to to to get Advanced on those topics so I will try to or what my proposal would be not to uh the same thing that we have done with beep uh don't make the these other features be a blocker about having a first version of web or for example early drafts and try to see if we can for example add that add them later on with the essentials either if it is a HTTP res interface or it is by adding data challenge support for web but I think that it is also that they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "are going to be like allowance that we can negotiate and it is not really a like a Blog stopper to have them in the web standard to be able to to use them and and it to be adopted by the industry okay yeah yeah I think it sounds reasonable I guess because you've got sort of media type description so you've got STP trying to map that to the media descriptions within Dash and also then you've got the time frame aspects around the dash MPD that doesn't really have a kind of an analogy in uh in the uh webrtc world I think in terms of description okay yeah all right um I think it's probably not a good use of our time to actually slap up the charter and start to edit it I think that's kind of maybe kind of a complete waste of time so I think the um we should set everyone free here give them 30 minutes back of their lives unless there's something else to discuss are there yeah I mean I'm sorry I didn't mean to cut you off I actually hadn't looked so there are more we could proceed for because we have 30 more minutes of time so let's make sure I mean I think that most of the discussion has been already covered in some parts of the of the slides but I mean yes I think that it would be great if we can go through them because I think that we can spend this time to to discuss some of the items so absolutely go ahead Yeah so basically the the web protocol is basically the same thing that uh as whip so we have the the web players and an HTTP post with sap offer then the endpoint return on a DP answer with the the 200 or 201 response and then everything the the request and the ice and the details is established with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "media server and the rtcb float start to go from the media server to the web player in the there has been some discussion that I don't know if this is a the best thing to do or not because we don't want to have two different ways of operating in the in the draft so this and the the current graph also covers it but I don't know if we want to remove it or not that they will say that there was a also like an interest of having the service to be able to provide the sdp offer so and then the player does not need to know for example you want to establish an audio video session or only audio and also and there was some claim that some implementation don't support great offers so and also this will allow weapon weapon to probability the there are some pros with this for this approach that it is the for example the term server configuration would be solved because you will be able to get the eye service before they having to send the the sap answer but there is a big con at least from my side that it is the media server does not actually know what codecs may be um maybe used by the by the stream when it is established because for example at least in in miligas we allow the players to connect before the Apple stream is started and the publication can choose whatever codecs they use so we are able to switch between dynamically between the Codex so if the if the it is difficult for us at least to provide an sdp offer with the to the player because we will just have to to provide a list of all the potential"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "corrected and that may that assist in fact so this is one of them one point that if we that we will need to to decide if we want to support it or not just none so a in this one no yep so what's missing us Jonathan I think it was younger than the one that said that so uh as Jonathan said that web has more requirements internal functionality than with for example within the and I think that the whole thing is that we have a good um we can check what are the the misinfusion ideas by taking what does provide because we should try to be like a a future uh we should have should be able to provide the same functionality as does provide that for example would be would be about having multi languages in in audio to be able to do remote PESA and mutant avoid having Western resources if they pay the the if if the if the player is supposed to support subtitles and legations supporting metadata specifically for example the for time stamping and and having a like the smtpa and the timestamps and also how to do client-side resolution and quality selection for example to be able to have um even if the service is doing a layer switching between supercars or SBC to be able to allow the client to say to specify to to know which layers are available and for example to yes and say that and send me a lower resolution even if there is a if I am able to do a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "um a Higher One so the I don't I think that this can be implemented as add-ons today to the to the web specifications and they don't change the what we are going to to implement so we can add it on top and probably as a optional and feature that we can negotiate uh yeah Dartmouth I think um sorry I should have put myself in the queue I apologize um uh I I think now the I think sort of the big picture consequence of this is a lot of these things possibly everything but subtitles is going to require fresh offer answers so we're going to need General fresh offer answers in a bunch of places not just offer answers for ice restart so that's going to be you know a fairly notable um change to the protocol I think that's something that's something we're going to need to think about and I guess the question is are you going to support are can we do this entirely with client initiated offer answer or does it have to be or is there some place where they're you know where the server decides hey we need a fresh offer answer because that's going to be even more complicated does he need to have some sort of polling to notify of that well we can use data channels yeah and then I think that's probably for subtitles you'd probably want somebody something over data Channel um but I don't know the details um and we need to let somebody's on the chat commented that there's you know the MP4 container does you know everything you ever amazing quad number of different things the question is which one of those things how many of those things do we actually need so thanks Niels individual um just clarification on the on the slide where you said like whether we should support uh reversing the um the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "offer answer um uh roles uh if you connect the players first um don't you run into the problem that if the if the if the whip client then later connects you might still run into the problem that like you have codec in this match or you're like how are you going to enforce from the server side that basically the one codec which would get set I mean but if the if the player sends the zp offer and data for example the unit super ab1 I mean I cannot do much at least you know I mean I can I can try to even do trust coding in the server side but I mean the server will the player will send me all that it supports is so it is if I run into this yeah let's say like if you if you connect to the web players and you have negotiated something with them uh there's no guarantee that whatever you have negotiated with them will uh match with the with the which player what if it connects later basically or yeah but I'm what I'm trying to say like basically switching the rules doesn't take away that problem as if I maybe I'm misunderstanding something yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I mean we have the same problem if regardless of who sends for the the answer they offer first okay that was up yeah um Tim Hanson couple of things uh I don't like the switching of the answer I don't see that I don't believe that purported benefits like you're never going to be able to connect a whip to a whip uh without something in the middle anyway and so saying that it makes it easier I think is kind of artificial to be honest um I think it complicates the the things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "somewhat unnecessarily so I'm I'm kind of not uh I don't buy that and it adds a round trip of course um so I don't buy that and I think the second thing here that kind of the additional features I think those channels are the way to go and even if you end up needing to renegotiate um you can renegotiate over the day's channel so and it's worth I mean we've done a ton of stuff where we use the label of the data channel to indicate what the purpose of that channel is so you don't have to like you know it's sort of you don't have to agree it in the STP you can just say there will be data channels and then those data channels arrive and they have meanings based on their um you know web subtitle Dash en it might be the title of the the label of the channel and then you know what it is um so I think we can I I think we can get a long way towards these sorts of features without needing to do another round of offer answer and even if we have to do another round of offer answer to add a track or something you can do that negotiation over a spare and negotiating data channel so you can create today's channel for doing offer answer over and you do offer answer over that and um and keep your uh keep your your HTTP server out of the loop because it doesn't need to be in it thanks foreign just encouraging scope limiting I don't think we need to specify every feature of Dash as a feature of web that will just lead to well kissing contest but uh there are a number of things that we could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "write specs for that would be applicable in any webrtc context subtitles especially yep and the client-side resolution called The Selection thing but they don't need to be in web so let's I I would encourage you to go for a very simple web and let's add features when we need them and if possible use them in all contexts to a webrtc are applicable yeah yeah I agree with that for example a I already have been working for example in a solution for subtitles a for whip that obviously and this will have to be done somewhere else probably maybe Decor or a music and then we can we could reuse then they were here so that's what that was also my goal so I think that uh having a full set of functionality is like a like the goal for me for my service but it they don't need to be all done in web okay uh John Athletics again yeah I think the sort of subtlety here is there's I mean we have you know a number of layers of indirection here right I mean you know web users webrtc webrtc uses sdp offer answer STP offer answer uses sdp and you know and I think it'll for a lot of these things Yes somewhere in the 30-year history of sdp there have been solutions to find for these are they good I don't know are they implemented in browsers no could they build under browsers probably will they be ask Harold but um I mean if if you say if you say hey if we add this to webrtc so it might just be a matter of not even defining new Solutions but finding like Adam mentioned there is an RTP payload for ttml um I don't know if it's quite solves our problem but probably roughly does so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "maybe if you can maybe just say hey browsers add this ttml to your webrtc stacks and you know and that will and there's an actual use case for this because we want to be able to do this for you know live Dash and I think that's a use case the brothers are actually interested in so um but yeah I think this might just be a matter of scouring the web the RFC archive rather than defining new work um yeah uh just got what I was going to say something around um yeah okay uh I can't quite think what I was going to say um ah yeah the data Channel thing so I just sort of um webrtc whether whether you whether you want to sort of stay with just using the webrtc data Channel whether you want to be kind of um open to using just websockets so in some senses maybe a higher level abstraction when one talks about using it again it's something that kind of came out of the um uh out of the work that the dash if thing I mean I guess because well I guess with the sort of these types of approaches we're using Dash typically the data Channel approach doesn't necessarily isn't necessarily kind of needed because it's often not a peer-to-peer type of um communication but uh I guess it doesn't have to be but uh just a thought really as to whether or wants to sort of allow that flexibility as opposed to just stipulating just use the data channel in web ITC hmm yeah I mean I don't have a I I have not started to work on a solution and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "then I don't have to check how this implemented with them and back does but I can there is no limitation about producing where was socket over data challenge at the moment probably when we start to check it we will see that it makes more sense to use one on another or maybe probably with web it is Maximus and to use but if we are integrated with thus maybe it's easier to have like a separate web socket and a web connections that are not I don't know yet so but yes I mean I think the other thing that we should just say close ourselves to just a single set of solutions so coming back on the today's Channel thing um yeah we turns out uh the this channel uh API looks very like the websocket API in the browser so actually we've done a few things where you consume one on top of the other and the the so JavaScript author actually doesn't know which it is and doesn't care um because semantics are pretty similar the open semantics are different but once it's open it's pretty indistinguishable to be honest so you can you can fake one with the other so you might not actually need to um kind of enforce that at the client side obviously at the server side it's completely different um and I think that's where you're going to come up against it's like where does this metadata arrive uh get generated does it get generated kind of close to the media server where your media is coming from is it tied to that in which case data channels is the right path whereas if it's coming from you know where your HTTP request went then websockets is the right path and so I think that you're going to fight because the media server is probably a long way back behind some that whereas your your web server is is out the front so I think like which you end up choosing is going to be almost an architectural decision rather than"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "um anything else but yeah I mean our experiences that from the client side you almost can't tell the difference between them we seem to have drained the queue yeah all right do we want to ask now for uh I think we had on the agenda the the question whether uh regarding the rechartering um lots of lots of support for it but is there anyone that would like to uh not not does not want us to try to recharter um that I would be interested in in why foreign so I think what we're going to do is we're going to proceed forward with the whip draft to get it out the door get a working group last call going then the chairs will set up a repo we will throw in the charter and we'll start editing it and we'll invite everyone to provide um issues and pull requests on the charter and then we will proceed forward and with that I think we'll draw this meeting to a close unless there's anybody else that has any other business that they would like to add at the last second here going once going twice sold as the Techno music starts to pound in the background everyone have a good night thank you very much thank you very much Sergio hey"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:05",
    "text": "and thanks Niels for um helping me out with my network connection problems foreign thank you"
  }
]
