[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "I think I\u0027m sure if you think it meant I else their kids in keyword just do a cure yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "boom you\u0027re sitting in the wrong order just stop this is just checking the floor like Paul can you hear this all right okay welcome to dispatch in the art area of general meeting if that\u0027s not your flight please exit the aircraft now blue sheets are circulating who make sure you get your name on them I just saw one go up close to the back the other one just wave in the air thank you we have our scribe a minute taker thank you for volunteering Thank You Barry and Kris sir so I have those in the recording please note it very likes to say no the note well well this establishes obligations around reporting intellectual property may have regarding the material that will be discussed in this meeting or you have the right to remain silent anything you say can you be used by the can and will be used by the I ATF and you should consult with your IP are people before proceeding here Mary so these are our u-bolt that lies you know oh sorry so what we what we\u0027ve done just to remind people what the official off deadline is it used to be we tried to track that and have our stuff in before that but they kept moving it up so we\u0027re not quite aligned with that so you have to think about if you might want to official ball talk to us early um and then jun 12 is to let the chairs know you\u0027ve got something coming in it helps us get a little bit more organized and then the proposal should be in 1918 and then we will announce the topics roughly around june point this and then your draft deadline is to life road we both have been announced to the list yet we will be posting them shortly just so you understand why how we use the deadlines if you make the deadlines and you\u0027re in line with what we need you basically go to the front of the line for the list for again time if you miss them you end up at the end in any other business if we can fit you in and please start your drafts when you submit them at their for consideration at the spring group with the draft app is slightly longer should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "be draft your last name dispatching than the rest of the way and material that\u0027s for general area discussion not specific to this working group or that will be processed to this working group should go on a general art list and anything it is for us so should we on the dispatch list that\u0027s how we\u0027re hoping to make these two lists separately sometimes it\u0027s been some confusion about whether apps discuss became which one and so forth so 80s this is your for time anything because I see I only see been in alleppey so we have a new area director Oh Who I don\u0027t see that\u0027s a great for so so tell him tell him he\u0027s expecting a speech when he comes in right I like right oh oh I\u0027m sorry it\u0027s good we\u0027ll come back he redirects a little bit later we got a few more area directors in the room never have enough air time yeah i think really quick think that been mentioned to me published mention we just created art art directorate which has three a DS I and no members so we have all the documents in the world through view and nobody\u0027d review them um okay here\u0027s so I think the plan is initially for a DS to play with the interface and see how it works and try to request documents and vote we can start talking to to recruit people as well and I think as far as I\u0027m concerned I would like to see how much work this is actually two to manage and then I can more intelligently talk to a potential secretary once we recruit one about how much work it is what\u0027s happening to apps / right along that line i\u0027m curious is very how many people in this room would be willing to do reviews of documents say one document of mine for the to help out the area directors write down the names quickly okay III think well we\u0027ll need to do a bit more recruiting but that\u0027s somewhat promising it was more than zero so I am impressed okay thank you what what\u0027s happening to a pure um so I think we\u0027re going to close it unban was separately talking about the rice I Directorate which is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:16",
    "text": "not being used so our art is going to be the joint thing but if you have opinions email to our dash AG\u0027s at ITA blow talk I don\u0027t think we have decided exactly how this is going to work but I think a single Directorate makes sense there are various nods around the room outstanding apps OGG items this is the former applications area general working group all of its final documents have been made it all the way to RFC status so that lexi i believe is planning to close that working group any moment now might as well just stay at the mic understand titania yeah it\u0027s actually the last oh c\u0027mon got published on my birthday so i should have closed the chip back then so there is nothing left so and we have a quieted impressive list of like I think almost like 20 documents will publish to be here so yeah i\u0027ll just cry graph them in our nice nice short email saying thank you everybody and so then you have any new people to introduce oh yes our new area director actually dame to show up finally I understand yet some prepared remarks I am thoroughly unprepared for this so I yes got nothing i\u0027m taking over the preponderance of alyssa\u0027s group\u0027s name listen noob this is how we do things here Adam Roach impending art area director Thank You Adam now related to this we had a few working groups that wanted to thank our outgoing area director um cringed so Alyssa you can you come join us and they Richard would you like this in pink box as some of you might be aware we have serve a tradition here of thanking outgoing area directors in the right area and now the arc area with sort of celebrating with gifts along a theme the theme we\u0027ve arrived at this year is music and so to kick that off I\u0027ve have this classic Miles Davis album kind of blue this is presented on behalf of the ice working group which is not meeting this week they delegated me to present this now um they presented me with this and I think John Peterson suggested we focus on final as the median here um but I wasn\u0027t sure exactly how to turn it into sound since Apple decided to remove the physical media slots from their laptops in a while ago so i think that there\u0027s a good cullen then and Tim have another theory here so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "on behalf of about the dispatch group bomb tempest cow yeah so so over in the codec working group we we really um thought the idea of music was a great one and and vinyl was an excellent choice but what Richard rightly pointed out Alyssa might need a record player to play her records because probably didn\u0027t already have one and and so so we thought you know we could give some recommendations of reddit audio file approved record players but but somehow that just didn\u0027t seem good enough it didn\u0027t seem to really represent true leveraging of the work we do here at art so we said what if we made a record player that streams opus over WebRTC so if they can get it unpacks this is the only reason we needed it to an a half hour slot this morning we have we have it\u0027s in last call mounted a Raspberry Pi inside this record player on it is it is feeding USB audio off of the record players internal internal a 2d and then it connects back out through ethernet on it also supports Wi-Fi so if we plug this thing in here it\u0027s completely safe on so get given a moment to come up and get connects to make it out it to the igf watch choice for transporting this [Laughter] sorry the powerpoint says certificates by let\u0027s encrypt was totally rehearsed always something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:30",
    "text": "in the demo just cuz it won\u0027t play gasps but oh it\u0027s the wrong album cisco must have a problem with blues okay I\u0027m not sure anyway we mean like Tim to debug that there you go okay let\u0027s do this audio so do you think that you should probably get up slides to following the URLs fuck you lookin back girls I continually tell people about this web RTC stuff you know the standards aren\u0027t done yet okay let\u0027s go back to your dismissal aim the chairs it\u0027s probably broken okay so we\u0027re going to leave Tim to debug this for a minute but we would like to tell Alyssa thank you very much [Applause] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:49",
    "text": "look okay you want to we\u0027re just gonna move on while people debug this yep you got you I say something good wow I honestly like just don\u0027t even know what to say this is awesome thank you I did I I was joking with a few people in the art area last year about you know how we have this tradition and um sort of there was you know suggestion that I was going to get vegetables as a thank you and I sort of redirected and said well there\u0027s some other things and but never expected anything like this so really I\u0027m very touched and i will say that i have felt the whole time that I\u0027ve been participating really in the ITF almost ten years that the art area or the apps area of the Rye area before is the fun area we definitely have the most fun and the best jokes and I hope and I am confident that that tradition will continue but also that means I\u0027ve had a ton of fun with all of you as as our area director and I expect that to continue not going anywhere really oh the other thing I will say is that I think a lot of the sort of innovation around how we do things in the IETF and how we keep current and bring in new people I think a lot of the new ideas that have permeated throughout the entire ITF have started in our area so i will still be looking back to all of you to keep coming up with those ideas and how we can make the ITF better and you guys know where to find me if you want to help with that or complain about anything so thanks a lot really appreciate it [Applause] Adams on the hook for fun now so I we do have other working groups who aren\u0027t meeting yeah right what any other working groups that aren\u0027t meeting this week like to say anything or in our case I know it\u0027s like we\u0027re meeting but the list is not coming to set course so we do have we also have something to present to her this is joy division\u0027s love will tear us apart I wanted to find something with you know a neat vinyl color and this is actually clear so this is from both chairs this is Mean Gene Mahoney hi John Peterson I\u0027ve been sent on behalf of the modern working group do you provide a contribution for modern for a change um this is like a career "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:51",
    "text": "that\u0027s come yes those are you know modern know what I\u0027m talking about so this is at record by band called slint both Tom McGarry and I are big fans of kind of indie rock stuff since is some good indie rock on behalf of the JSON best working group which we were hoping would close this week but unfortunately some things came up we have some smashing pumpkins and on behalf of the HTTP working group we have a very not rare first australian pressing of talking heads little creatures which contains parenting advice stay up late and a song that is not about the ietf road to nowhere you can pick it all up later all right okay we\u0027ll go back one just mention that we have everything that was a dispatch working group item from last time has been hunted and I early to sit for so we have nothing currently pending for dispatch we hope that agrees with what your understanding so we\u0027re going to emboss this this meeting compared to previous ones there are only four I invited the chairs to those boss to come in mention the priests 35 comment on what you\u0027re doing and when you\u0027re doing it if there any of them were here if not that\u0027s the list and 11 swing plane or if you know what they are okay i know we have people in the room with to speak to each one of these great foot give us the one-line description of each one of these are mark Wu you can\u0027t hear us ah can you give us the one-line description of our mark you know tell us about github what does yeah apparently we use it in some working groups here and we\u0027re having a discussion about formalizing that process and can better understanding of how we do it and probably writing some things down about how we do it to help you plan um Alyssa or somebody else want to comment on this ayah that I assa I asked us off to dot oh oh sure so I asked from people who don\u0027t know is the ITF administrative support activity it\u0027s the word we use to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:51",
    "text": "describe how we administer the IETF and the way we do it now was established about more than 10 years ago so we\u0027ve been starting a community discussion about changes we might want to make challenges we\u0027re facing as an organization from an administrative and funding perspective so we\u0027re having a discussion on Wednesday afternoon about some of those things we had we have a problem with a workshop report that describes some of the problems we\u0027re going to be discussing that and and next steps in the community discussion so if you care about how the IETF is administered or what its fundraising situation looks like please come to is a judo and we won\u0027t say anything about coordinated address spaces or keep okay excellent then and two new ring groups have formed since South Korea J map I think Alexei can certainly talk to Jim a free food oh it\u0027s somebody else hi burn gondwana you can turn the mic up yeah I\u0027d like to that yeah Jay map is mostly an attempt to create an email protocol that means that people don\u0027t spend the first six months of developing a new client and trying to understand 30 different standards and discovering that this random support for them and then give up that\u0027s pretty much it what do you love you thursday when you\u0027re meeting thursday this afternoon and Seaborg Joe Hildebrand so yeah we\u0027re doing a sea border working group that\u0027s doing three things number one moving the seaboard spec along towards proposed standard fix a couple of myths that sort of thing number two talking about the possibility of standardizing some extra features extra tags that sort of thing number three and the part that may be more interesting to folks in this room is looking at standardizing a definition language that you\u0027ve been used to specify either see bore or JSON messages in protocols and that\u0027s c DD l or cuddle is the name of that protocol that we\u0027re using as a starting point for that discussion so come thursday afternoon at 1300 to have that discussion order thank you I am not picky you gonna and I am wanting this is so can you hear me yes and next slide please so why this draft so I stated LFC 2756 and Alexis "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:53",
    "text": "3550 clearly states that we should not see what we should not send packet that are bigger than the NTU because augmentation is bad if augmentation is bad on the first link layer is probably bad as we\u0027re so the idea of this dart is to reuse the protocol we just finish last call fucking hopeless coatings at home working all which is a draft IDF Constantine Hildy which is itself an implementation of a chief of ta21 which is used to discover the path and tu for protocol would do not have a mechanism to discover path empty next slide so what do we need so this is can order of that unpacked a lot from be a lot of people in art so we need guidance to find what is the best way to collect identifiers for ftp tcp vachetta we need an additional attribute in sdp to signal that the server is capable on online kim 2d discovery app\u0027 Guetta and we probably need some guidance from the ice expert because this is a pocket or which is running alongside so although I stuff which is already a lot of stuff so next slide so the question is that is a first any interest in this in this draft is a nice to polarize this and if yes we would like to know where to go to to make progress just like so my question is if you\u0027re running this long side is why do you want to do an RTP in the first place when I\u0027m just a path MTU discovery in the ice channel if first is not only ice right we may want to use it for see for example the cases is not using us so it\u0027s kind of a more generic protocol but we still probably need to have some guidance when it\u0027s used with ice I mean mines my suggestions advice I mean I seems like a much more natural protocol for you know sort of as an extra you know since the purpose of the ice cognitive of the ice is to figure out transport characteristics I would say if you\u0027re using is it for natural but I could certainly see use cases you know when you\u0027re doing RTP without ice but it seems less compelling and at which point if you\u0027re doing that you might want to think about which it gets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:54",
    "text": "a lot harder of course some of the multicast cases of RTP yes it\u0027s not with am Mooji casting not yes probably a good idea to power surge this yes yeah so someone Thompson I\u0027m I\u0027m kind of with Jonathan only on the ice suggestion frankly I don\u0027t think that the multicast scenarios are going to be tractable in any particular way if you want to go off and solve that problem it\u0027s probably a number of research projects required before that happens I see a lot of RTP usage now is is tied to ice and fixing the problem there is both simpler and easier so i would suggest just sticking to that okay Erica scorer on +1 to that also it\u0027s worth observing that in many cases their other protocol co-located with RTP over ice and those have their own p MTU discovery problem so um be sevilla be huh d GLS NSE TB and being able to simply inform them of the PMT you rather Hannah do independent p.m. to discover a bureaucratic well I\u0027m not sure because I ctp has his own path discovery protocol right so you don\u0027t need to solve it for a CT peace or desire I\u0027m saying that if you could simply tell it what is PMT was that would make life easier I mean PMT the new discovery kind of sucks so the few times you have to do it I\u0027m you either you have to burn actual packets which you want to send or you have to burn them with by sending bogus packets so let\u0027s do that once rather than rather than end times and I\u0027m also kind of curious how we\u0027re gonna do it with how it\u0027s gonna interact with bumble yes this is why we need advice forum right because I put it was econ is right my point is that if you simply adapt Johnson suggestion and use ice all those problems go away yes so we when we fought about this about ice thing is that we don\u0027t need it for DTLS because dtls is using its only father Jean shows at the beginning and that this is srgb so we don\u0027t have to do path discovery for the application data because there is no application data and then we don\u0027t need it for SC TPP because I ctp has its own what path discovery mechanism so why do it twice so but it could be a good one doing it a lower level and then pass the puffins to you up yeah yeah yeah sometimes an echo sort of reminded me of a reason why you absolutely probably don\u0027t want to do it in the RTP layer is it you are running out for ice you lose visibility of what path you\u0027re operating over or as ice actually understands the path and if you\u0027re doing path MTU detection over ice and ice doesn\u0027t this ice by Bill anything or if it chooses "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:56",
    "text": "nominates a different pair then you\u0027re actually on a different path and the information that you\u0027ve learned on the first path is carried across under the second path and you don\u0027t want that yeah it happened which is what which is part of the breeze why the highlight hi layer protocols like sctp actually implement the interior discovery themselves because they actually understand that the existence the past they\u0027re operating over in the case where you\u0027re running srtp over over ice ice really needs to be the place where you doing this [Music] long as wrestling a one additional things why sctp is kind of hampered in in the case of running over I mean I steeped a less layers that yes it\u0027s encrypted and doesn\u0027t get the any possibilities to get the i simpiy message up so right so so it seems pretty strong advice here to go try and figure out how to do this at the ice layer and to the RTP layer is that a reasonable way for you moving forward you see any John Lennox I mean if there are compelling use cases for RTP without ice then we can look at this but so far I haven\u0027t really heard any I said I think most you know in the modern world I\u0027d say most of the articulate Isis either VoIP which isn\u0027t likely to implement something new like this at this point especially because audio doesn\u0027t really attempt to you issues or else like IPTV which it\u0027s in the multicast areas all right yes gonzalo for me it was just to try and understand if there\u0027s work for us to actually do meaning it\u0027s fine for us to redirect and work on it as a nice problem it just is their interest in actually solving the problem okay I think I would no one spoke in favor really of solving this problem so unless somebody wants to move this work forward versus solving the problem with ice I think we will sort of into this dispatch for a bit said turnah okay all right thank you thank you so I think the the the sort of the conclusion should be you know encourage people to perceive looking at how to deal with this at the ice layer it said the RTP later for now that wonder we got next I think we are a few web link "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:10",
    "text": "mark yeah good morning um so a long time ago in an ITF far far away we had a document RFC 598 this or sorry 598 I\u0027m so used to saying this at the end now about web linking and next slide and this is a specification that defines kind of the generic concept of what it means to link from one resource to another on the web using a URI and especially using a typed relation so link relation types those things you see in HTML other places and it defines this model in a somewhat rigorous fashion and it also defines a way to serialize this model into HTTP headers and that was the the driving force for that specification because it had been kind of half specified way way way back in the early days of the web and then dropped to the floor and we figured out that actually was quite useful and so we wanted a formal specification for it next slide and so this has been picked up by a number of different communities it\u0027s used in core it\u0027s used in HTML sorry acne acne uses it awesome yay it\u0027s an atom it was kind of derived from some work we didn\u0027t Adam way back when the json-ld folks in the Semantic Web folks use it for for stuff that they do and it\u0027s the most liquid but of that yes and it\u0027s used in a lot of other places it\u0027s kind of one of those foundational specs that doesn\u0027t get a lot of attention but it it helps build some structure and other stuff um and and so when we did this spec it was something that I did in my spare time and it was 80 sponsored because way back when that was kind of how things were done Alexi were you the idea that sponsored it but Bevin i really forget who it was it is it\u0027s possible yeah but um so it went out there and it got adopted by these communities and was good and it SAT there for a while and uh in the meantime you know once it became you sorry it was Alexia thank you Thank You laxing so that makes the more recent sations a little more ironic than okay it\u0027s been adopted and we\u0027ve found some some issues in it some of them small and some of them large and I started a rep oh just to track that and to start working on our replacement document again on the back burner kind of on my own time and that got some attention from a lot of those communities probably more than I intended and we had a lot of long discussions in the issues listed that rep oh so next slide this is a short link to that issues list if if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:11",
    "text": "want to go and have a look at the issues there I\u0027ll summarize the high points in just a moment but we had a long set of discussions about them and got to a place where everyone was pretty happy or at least from what I could see and so the document has settled down there aren\u0027t any open issues on it currently and we think it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty ready to go I do have some discussions that I want to have with ayanna about how the interaction with them works but that\u0027s about all that\u0027s left so next slide um there\u0027s a lot of little stuff and as abyss document this is entirely you know appropriate I think we did things like clarifying terminology cutting down the introduction and making more human readable updating all the references incorporating all the errata most of those from julie and i think hi Julian we remove the registration template since they\u0027ve served their purpose and they took up a lot of space in the document updated the EA BNF thank you again Julian and we added a non-normative algorithm for parsing link headers in the style of the what working group because that\u0027s what the cool kids do today and we define these concepts of an application of linking and a serialization of linking more carefully these are kind of the ways that you might express a link in C realisations as well as things that use links the applications and what constraints or guidelines we give to those things um next slide a little bit bigger of an issue that actually at one point I think was a bit controversial folks in the Semantic Web world wanted a lot more rigor around how to create a uri for a registered link relation so we have a registry of lincra link relations in just a short token you know for neck or home or what\u0027s of these things that we use as a shorthand but the actual extension syntax for link relations is a folio I so it\u0027s grounded in a namespace and so these folks wanted a way to express those shorts registered relations as you are eyes which the spec didn\u0027t do terribly well it kind of waved the tens about it and so we had a long back and forth about how best to do that and we think we\u0027ve come up to a place where we have a reasonable approach to that that makes everyone not unhappy and so in discussions that I had with lexie in the background about doing this this document this was one of the concerns was that if that blows up that might require a working group to sort it out but it\u0027s not blowing up anymore so next slide um the other big thing that that\u0027s kind of happening the background of this draft which which you don\u0027t really get a good sense of from reading it is is that we personally want to try and experiment with how we run the registry in that you know the registry right now is quite clunky and how its run and it\u0027s not very friendly to end users who aren\u0027t familiar with IETF process and this is a kind of recurring theme in in what we do here we have certain numbers of registries whose audience is not just protocol folks at the ITF it\u0027s a much much wider audience of developers and they need to interact with these registries in a more friendly fashion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:12",
    "text": "and so there\u0027s been some thinking put into how can we do that and how can we establish those procedures I think the insight that that I\u0027m currently operating under which which may or may not be disabused is that we don\u0027t need to document all of those procedures in the RFC what\u0027s important is we document the relationship between the registry and the experts and iono to make sure that they can evolve a structure that works but that\u0027s one of the discussions that I think still needs to happen a little bit more publicly at least in this community is there a next slide I\u0027m not sure there\u0027s next line okay thanks so um that\u0027s where we\u0027re at they\u0027re like I said there aren\u0027t any open technical issues is just kind of an issue of an open discussion without an attack to happen the big question i have is where should this go um it\u0027s I don\u0027t think I can productively do anything with this document on my own anymore so it needs to either VAD sponsored or it needs to go into a working group and if so what working group is appropriate for that one possible future would be to create a new working group for it they hopefully very very short-lived working group which we\u0027ve done before with the lovely work on on just launched although that wasn\u0027t a short-lived as we thought it would be was it now they never are yes only they grew up as fast as your children did um oh you\u0027re very kind so that\u0027s my question I guess is what do people feel that we need a working group for this or could this have some dispatch or ad sponsored okay I mean I don\u0027t think it quite happens in dispatch it could be discussed on that list or whatever but it seems that you have two very different levels of things here that maybe you should tease apart a little bit more talk about more because one of them is a fairly straightforward update is to a draft another way is finding a way that is a problem lots of people had to have a better registry system and you clearly have some ideas for that which are not in this draft yes um I think that that sounds like a very interesting and meaty topic that is that needs more more more ability to have a community input on than we would normally run on the dispatch less sure yeah I I\u0027m not a completely into may have nothing to do with that draft but maybe a separate thing I\u0027ve tried to have that discussion for at least five years and it\u0027s always been kind of sidetracked in other discussions we had the happy I Anna work we\u0027ve had other discussions on the side it\u0027s something I\u0027m very interested in I\u0027m happy to talk about with folks but I need a venue where it\u0027s going to be able to be focused upon and we come to a conclusion and I haven\u0027t seen that venue yet I propose one I propose such a venue excellent okay this is barry i propose that that would be evolved it\u0027s it goes beyond the art area i right and and what I really want to do is give the experts of the registry and full disclosure I am "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:13",
    "text": "one of the experts of that registry the ability to experiment with how they allow registrations to happen because I think trying to write it down in RFC and then execute that is a recipe for disaster I think I need to figure out what we need to do for to be clear I wasn\u0027t suggesting anything related to this document right there what if so first of all I think this document should be ad sponsored I don\u0027t think we need a working look for it and if we want to pursue generalizing some changes to registry stuff I think we need to have a ball for that and maybe after some experience with this we can do that well it\u0027s interesting you know a lot of the stuff that I want to do is not really something that it\u0027s something that can happen within the current scope of work of the experts depending on how you look at it yes the reason I was suggesting above is that if this is a good idea we wouldn\u0027t want to keep it to ourselves and we want to discuss the community I just don\u0027t offer today and let\u0027s be really clear you have not presented what this idea is we\u0027re certainly not approving it in this working group right now right right I didn\u0027t think you were yes yeah okay anyway for this document I suggest just having Aleksei sponsoring sure I just don\u0027t so have you read the iana considerations section of this document okay I mean if we can come to a place where we can get this document out and it has enough flexibility net where we can at least do some of this experimentation and not have to rewrite it in six months or a year I think that would be good I would Wendy Seltzer w3c and I\u0027ve brought this to the attention of w3c community and yeah I think personally I think lightweight registry some useful I can talk about what I\u0027m thinking of but yeah right I\u0027m Roy fielding Adobe um first I i we use links heavily in our upcoming api\u0027s so it\u0027s that\u0027s good public aps so I certainly hope that it moves towards more standardization the other thing I wanted to note is that I\u0027m starting work on a specification of hypertext references which has a lot of overlap let\u0027s talk as an update to 3986 okay we should talk I can I I can do a seamless transition into the buff this afternoon because one of the things I won\u0027t do the registry is managed it on github so sorry I want to oh how interesting I want to manage the registry on github but not form a dependency on get out which is the fun part I decide Alexa go home I my guess it\u0027s just my sort of intuitive sense of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:14",
    "text": "this is that you\u0027d have widespread interest and not at ITF what a proposal to do that should be brought forward and puffed I don\u0027t want to do it for the whole ietf yet it\u0027s way too much pressure on getting it right the first time okay returning specifically to this document well I will blame mark no matter what so if it\u0027s if I\u0027m doing it is sponsored I will need a document Shepherd okay buddy wants to share the blame that\u0027s good other related question is it okay if we use dispatch for soliciting comments on this document of course your arch well I you know it\u0027s you know yet okay fine it\u0027s right okay it is yeah I don\u0027t want to be creating your mailing list if and I\u0027m going to doing working group I mean we could but it\u0027s just if it\u0027s okay I\u0027ll just use this pie chart okay well I\u0027ll have to read it next and then i\u0027ll let you know how much beer you buy me so Alexi would you like further discussion of this draft on our tour on dispatchers well either a large I don\u0027t need to ask your permission for this much I dairy said oh really I mean it\u0027s like what we just let\u0027s just what I hate is when it\u0027s unclear let\u0027s make it really clear to people wear it let\u0027s do it on dispatch because we brought this to dispatch and i justjust i think i can go always forward to art so that you choose to sponsor we can say we are now switching this discussion to art okay okay thank you yes no the proposal is for Alexei to ad sponsor it and he may or may not that\u0027s his call ok my name is Colin Gasca from deutsche telekom and i propose an addition to the reason Heather and first I would like to say that the term location used here within this raft has nothing to do with the location use for emergency calling that I get a couple of comments back from people to point that out we will see it later on a slide so with the RFC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:18",
    "text": "3226 where we have to find a reason header itself and it allows also to carry q 8 50 courses which are the causes release causes generated within the eyes up network and we have also allowed to transport these causes within the reason head up with in responses that\u0027s another RFC which we did but what at least a draft disliking is that we have a location within the eyes of network where this call was released and this is the aim of the draft to at this location if you go to the next slide it shows at least the nice telephone network the old ones which we have it\u0027s not like the SIP approach and to end we have some private networks local networks transit networks international networks and this itu-t recommendation have a specific course value which is called location and this location says for example where this call was released for example we have different kinds of user busy where they use itself says i\u0027m busy and user agent or lisa telephone reject the call and says use a busy or we have it also within the network itself so that the network says okay i have no lines to the users so the user is busy and that is where we send the location with the use of busy eyes of course next slide so why why we do use or why we do need it we have yes mobile networks providing IMS which is based on sip and we have still gsm networks PSN networks that are using the i sub coding and with regard to that we need the seamless interoperability between networks and we have seen that we have problems providing services where we have to react on a user pc for example the couple of scenarios and which is important to map a location and that cannot be done with existing sip well you sleep responses which we try to do we have already examples where we did it with other eyes of course but busy keeps us busy at least with only two coding so so we have the pcanywhere and the normal busy with and sit and that\u0027s why we would like to introduce addition to the coding so it\u0027s a small ad on within the reason header so and that is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:20",
    "text": "proposal thank you who\u0027s right the strap okay anybody want to provide any comments on what we should do with it suggestions oh sorry oh right nothing like we are you if I have the mic I guess the one you want comments on the draft or just on whether it hard how to dispatch it I want to know how to dispatch it so I\u0027ve got a couple of comments on the dispatch list already so I will incorporate them at least mainly it was the use of the wording location so i will change this to something like I supplication or something like that so the question is if this other could be anywhere dispatched or if this can be fights amla e d sponsored activity okay I guess I don\u0027t really have any comments and where to dispatch it okay um John Peterson sorry my voice is really going out today yeah so there seem to occasionally come up more reason code ish kinds of things that people want to do so it\u0027s not that I can\u0027t imagine where being a bucket of like reason cause code I person this from stirrer I know there\u0027s some work that people are doing in Addis Mary maybe you know more about this right around some of the reason codes people want to use there so I mean you know I think we could probably scope an effort that would be around that but I suspect that would be ill and this could certainly fit into that bucket process perspective and I\u0027m speaking as the support chair for the next forty some odd hours this seems to fit in zip cores new charter just fine so but I think that it would be a reasonable sort of thing to take on there I haven\u0027t looked at the technical content the document i know he has some thoughts there is going to share in a moment but i think it\u0027s perfectly good than you this Pete Resnick so not being a sick person I just got whacked on the nose rather appropriately on the IETF list during last call for the 666 document um and told that headers don\u0027t go back through proxies in error codes don\u0027t necessarily go back through and that\u0027s why you had to use 666 and you couldn\u0027t put the this is spam and a header because it wasn\u0027t going to make it back to where you want it to get it isn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:22",
    "text": "this the same thing isn\u0027t this the same problem you\u0027re sticking a header into a failed response code and it won\u0027t necessarily get back through proxies let\u0027s say it\u0027s not a new header it\u0027s an extension to a header so we have to queue 850 cause we have the text and then there\u0027s some additions saying the location the ice location so existing headers do always make it back through proxies new ones might know is that the issue christer homework basically what you say it is correct but at least from my implementation on and product experience the reason hitter do go back in general what the comment that was made at hitters don\u0027t go back yeah I totally agree with that but I would almost say that de facto standard even though it\u0027s not really specified in anywhere is that the reason how to do tend to go back but that I mean II fighters have either you know experience but that\u0027s at least you know my experience so this seems um I mean it seemed someone within the scope of sick or if we decide that we\u0027re getting enough of this work in sick or that it makes sense to split off something to deal with that type of stuff I\u0027m sure that that could be addressed at that point in time I is you want to speak about this doing something with other than sending it to succour I guess okay uh I get you know who\u0027s going to work on this if we send it zip cord just out of curiosity okay got one hand that\u0027s better than zero no we go clearly we got some days by the room we got a couple so we\u0027re going to send this to sip core obviously support will have to decide whether they want to proceed with it or not that work for people hip dispatched okay zombie it\u0027s like them looming there I\u0027m talking very briefly about what I think is a tiny change to D care how many people here know how beacon works most of you okay good so I have for the rest of you I have a next slide please next slide here we go here\u0027s what dekum does it takes it takes a mail message it hashes it all up it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:22",
    "text": "signs the hashes with a private key it then adds a header to the message with the sign with the signature then when a recipient gets the message they can look up the corresponding public key in the DNS verify the signature and if the signature is good then you can make various assertions about assumptions about the message next please d Kim is defined with it really is a very small registry of hash algorithms and signature algorithm hash algorithm was a sha-1 which is deprecated and nobody uses anymore and shot to 256 which we all use the only signature algorithm currently is our essay and it\u0027s plain ordinary RSA and in the signature itself there is a tag that says what hash algorithm and what signing algorithm you used so it like a equals make shot to shot 256 RSA and then in the key the key does not identify yeah the key says what signing algorithm is used and a little used optional field about what hashes you\u0027re allowed to use so both the signature both the signature and the key allow you two are designed to allow new out on this to be added next please here\u0027s the problem the spec currently says spec is really all the spec says you\u0027re supposed to be able to use five but bit RSA keys but nobody does that anymore i hope the signers must use at least 1k keys and we are thinking that 1k keys are ok now but they\u0027re getting a little long in the tooth so we want to expand to too cakey well that\u0027s fine we could just mean normally you would say I\u0027ll just make the key longer and i\u0027ll put the stomach I\u0027ll put the signing key in the DNS and everything will be cool however it turns out that doesn\u0027t work because a 1k key is almost 256 bytes we store them in txt records txt records are stored in chunks of when they won with a one-bite length so that each chunk is limited to 256 bytes and although txt records have always since the dawn of history been defined as hen as including more than one string the crud where that with which people provision their dns only handles a single spring and a guy i don\u0027t think easier but somebody at google actually went through and and tested a bunch of these things and there\u0027s way too much dns provisioning software that only handles a single dns string so that in reality the limit of the txt record is limited to two and fifty six bytes and i say this is a stupid problem we should not have this problem only a moron would write software that had this problem but the world is full of people who write software like that and then ain\u0027t going to change so i have to promote to proposed solutions first is new improved signing algorithm elliptic curve keys or tiny code as well debug blah blah blah so for that all we do is we would we would update the deccan spec to say ok "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:24",
    "text": "now instead of in addition to RSA signatures you can do you can do ed DSA signatures and an alternative proposal which which eric suggested is do what we do in other other context and actually put the signing key in into the signature so i\u0027ll put the verification key into the signature just put a hash of the fixed size hash of the of the verifying verification key into the dns the hashes of a limited size so you know so we could do it okay and this would then a lot this is we then get rid of the practical limit on the on the on the key size hmm well if at the cost of adding a new header field but but sorry at the hot cost adding a new tag to the D Kim\u0027s signature which is also it is already defined have to be to allow more tags to be added we could do either or both I think I have one more slide yeah so for transition issues we need to figure out how to do old and new signatures the current specs says for says you can only have a single key record for each selector which is fruit and we could relax act and say we could have you know two key records one for the old key and one for the one for the old signing our algorithm one for the new signing algorithm during the transition verifiers are supposed to ignore signatures they don\u0027t understand that\u0027s I hope that works that is a code path that has not been well tested so we need to go back and test it and see how much this is going to break and the reason this is slightly urgent is there\u0027s this thing called arc which is a mutant version of D Kim that is being invented to help deal with the the DMark mailing list issues that i\u0027m not even going to go into here but but but arc is the magic bullet arc is based on d kim to the extent that we could get d Kim updated now we could get arc updated now so that our only so the arc doesn\u0027t have to go through the same transition and believe that\u0027s my last slide okay all right there seemed to be a few questions letter it figured back up on some ID please I think Brett\u0027s who are you I\u0027m sorry Russ housley I think that supporting things like ed 255 19 is a good plan however it does not have the same API as any other signature out it does not for example have a hash algorithm it is implied by using ed 2519 how the hash will be constructed I know this having just worked through how to use the CMS so your API is not as plug-and-play as this presentation implies Phil Han Baker tomato I think actually probably want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:25",
    "text": "do both the reason for that is yes going to add 250 519 is a good idea right now but we should try and get ourselves in a position where we can move on further you might want to do ad for a 2-1 point you might want to do something that\u0027s quantum resistant at some point publishing the key hashes actually because you can always send as much data as you like in the mail stream right as long as you don\u0027t irritate the sender the receiver putting the key hash is the most flexible thing doing both their means that you can add policy type stuff into what you send and that can be very useful for if you want to go to anonymous d kim or some of the other games that have been playing with amin it is a highly open question about how painful the transition will be whether we will end up with something like like people can just barely do the transition will never do it again or else like now we\u0027ve debug this we can add new algorithms you could go either way I don\u0027t know well the other thing that you might want to think about is maybe if you did when the key hashes root then you could squeeze those in with the 1024 bit RSA Xand have a different transition time yeah Duke Crocker um so we have a tendency in the ITF to think of doing transitions as an integrated step and we end up building cruft into the transition process to do that and the from this the view that I\u0027ve developed is the way to do a transition is first specify where you want to be and make it be as clean as possible and have it be completely separate from any of the transition steps and so what got me to get up here was your statement about doing things two ways and the message and having two different records to support what I assume was a single selector that gives you different keys depending on the type it it would be easy to persuade me to persuade me that we do with a different selectors it and that\u0027s where I landed on is we have a construct for giving multiple signatures in a message do multiple signatures it\u0027s already there in fact that one of those in the new style and one of them is in the old style is completely transparent to the meta structure and it\u0027s much simpler ok and and therefore your transition isn\u0027t a transition in the technology it\u0027s a transition in some operational practice which looks a whole lot like some other transitions we already support get mean give or take the issue that we we hope that the existing code will ignore the signatures that Delta doesn\u0027t understand as well but if it doesn\u0027t do that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:25",
    "text": "have bigger problems with that implementation anyhow because we already have transitions that it has to support this is just in the macro this is the same as all of those um the the other thing that Russ\u0027s comment triggered in my thinking is it sure would be nice to move this stuff into our registry so we don\u0027t have to go around changing specs we just did change registry entries and that requires that there be some regularization to how the registry entry is and I\u0027m not sure how to do that but it\u0027s worth thinking about I thought we had registries for that yeah well but then we have a whole work but we have a whole lamps of the whole working group that seems to be sort of kind of doing that but not really except it is hi I\u0027m Jim pen I may give you a little bit of history but I\u0027ll keep it really short d Kim is actually a merger of two different specifications one of which stored the public key and dns and the other which stored a hash of the public key and EMS and we made a decision when we merge them to put the public key in dns in order to cut down on the message header size because some large email provider noted that it would take some non-trivial number of additional disk drives in order to store all of those public keys that were redundant lee in all of those messages so that\u0027s how we got here um so I mean that that\u0027s sort of an interesting thing about design decisions that I wish have gone the other way for that region how many years ago was that I don\u0027t remember it was probably 12 or so yeah I think yeah right but that was when the decision was made in any case um I will note that publishing the the hash of the public key and DNS in this particular application I believe has some IP are associated with it and so that might be something else so that you might want to consider Eric risk rola um basically plus one of a phb said I think that what\u0027s most flexible its most flexible to have the hash the DNS but it\u0027s fun we should be doing some modern algorithm as well um I\u0027m seems like we now conversion Edie\u0027s and they were other so I\u0027m finally that that or also be fine with PG 56 ecdsa um the point Russ made earlier of course right about the hashes on my senses the communities actually rapidly converging towards the notion that every curve should we use exactly one and only one hash so um I think if we\u0027re actually if we decide to do um you know something other than you do find her a nine it should be like you know p 256 reach out to 36 makes a match like we\u0027re doing now uh no it\u0027s an RSA thing not really an easy thing I mean the baby came is specified it\u0027s easy enough to say you have to use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:25",
    "text": "this hash with this algorithm yeah yeah yeah richard barnes plus one the 1i current page be said um what you might consider as much as I love being futuristic and using the latest cool stuff and I considered you know some support for what whether it makes sense the supports within this curves and it\u0027s like using PG 56 which I sha-256 only because there are a lot of signers out there right now and in you know you can\u0027t buy a signer right now that does ed 2551 not as far as i know people probably correct you on that but the market the support for that in the market right now is not great so if you want to promote deployment you might consider having some support for existing curves in there yeah I mean I\u0027m under the impression that this is supposed to go into openssl real soon now but I\u0027m certainly open to mean I\u0027m a lazy programmer i would rather use code exists sure yeah and i\u0027m thinking more about it wasn\u0027t so open SSL and software leverage an issue but i\u0027m thinking else of h SMS which I to the degree that are using the Deacon ecosystem I\u0027m not sure that those will have a longer transition timeline okay this is bear Oliva I thought this at the beginning of the queue but now after hearing the Q I\u0027m quite certain we seem to want to do this and it seems like a new working group is the right answer what you\u0027re saying is no good deed goes unpunished okay a will remind people that we did in we have experienced out of here of spinning up working groups fast and quickly and trying to minimize the amount and pain and suffering that causes the people trying to do good deeds so so um none thompson the only reason i got up was that there is a working group that is doing precisely this work um and they\u0027re over in the second area have all the people who understand all of the issues that brass and eka and Richard have talked about the actual interface to 2d kim is connor trio oh sorry i was about to say a cuddle I was going to say the interface dude Hakeem is actually pretty trivial because the design correctly anticipated the need to change these things they don\u0027t require a huge level of knowledge about how Deacon works in order to define new signature algorithms if you\u0027re willing to go over and participate on their mailing list which might be out for the time that it takes to write the draft have a couple of hours of discussion and and get it through publication which is what what\u0027s happened with their current set of drugs that might even be an even more lightweight way to solve the problem post wonder dispatching outside the area for ham bacon I recently implemented add 250 519 it took me basically two days of which half of which was doing proxy encryption which is way above their that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:26",
    "text": "level so um it\u0027s not that difficult to implement even if you have to do it cold I know dan bernstein as a reference implementation did you can start with ad dan does but I don\u0027t and I don\u0027t recommend you go there no no dan has it for the Montgomery stuff ok this is Edwards and it makes a difference the thing about curdle is it\u0027s very narrowly chartered and deciding to go into curdle Mike you need to understand whether you\u0027re going to be allowed to do publish key hashes as a way around or whether that\u0027s going to commit you to do nothing more than just add the algorithm well I suppose we can ask yeah so I mean it seems I had look at that charter head time it seemed to me there\u0027s two different issues here there\u0027s one about how to select curves and how to do the crypto and there\u0027s another thing that\u0027s really about the whole d Kim architecture what you\u0027re talking about an architectural change that has nothing to do with crypto that\u0027s about where you store these things and the pointers to them do you want to separate those at all or um they are separate time they are separate topics but I would really rather do one updated to all right student are also going idea this one behind will probably disagree with me but and the so I need to cut up into this church or would fit curdle very well I think the changes to the significant signature message header fields in if you wanted to reach our decoder which you might have to do to include that then that would be okay as long as it\u0027s not mail people actually pay some attention but you would need male people paying attention in fact that\u0027s actually sort of it in an argument against going in to curdle since male people tend not to pay much attention in when in detailed crypto arguments yeah now all that said this is like not that hard so yeah anything we choose should work erihskroy yes I rise to support my former colleague um III I was originally thinking that this is a kernel thing based on Martin\u0027s comments but I think based on the point Colin just made I think probably better to have a small focused working group than to do that then the pun it to curdle on clean I mean I I don\u0027t oppose they get to Colonel people want to do that but I think that if I were voting as opposed to has opposed judging consensus I would vote other way so someone Thompson may I suggest that the area directors for the to affected areas have that discussion about who wants to adopt it because I\u0027m not sure that it is actually necessarily an art working group given a propensity look at the security aspects with you okay this art ad doesn\u0027t object to this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:27",
    "text": "being in your working group so if if interested people can write the Charter this week then we can sort it out and we\u0027ll discuss with Eric about which air it lands on it Wow I\u0027ll look we\u0027ll see what we can do for subversion of wheat yes and yeah so it\u0027s a rite of something really short and simple doesn\u0027t need to be more a couple paragraphs put on the dispatch list this week yeah you see I will get our area directors decide what to do with it next there\u0027s you know yes and census on the list it\u0027ll be done yeah and also please come talk to me about possible if you\u0027re interested to a chair I assume it\u0027s not going to be useful the other document it okay so uh for the minutes i guess the proposal here is to move forward with this as a proposed midi working group with a quick charter and we\u0027ll see if we can get consensus on the heart but everyone\u0027s good with that as a losing yeah yes I didn\u0027t say that very clearly and I apologize so this patch has not fully dispatched this yet but our proposal is that they write that we\u0027re going the direction we\u0027re going on dispatching it is with a mini working group right a charter for the mini working group if we can get consensus on that many working group along with the area directors obviously then it will be dispatched into that that seems highly likely that could happen quickly let\u0027s um this is the end of our stuff so unless we\u0027re going to go back to streaming Blues on the Internet robot arm there isn\u0027t any other business slot is there any other business people want to bring to the area while we\u0027re all together not we can adjourn quite early excellent thank you all I have a blue sheet if you have not signed a blue sheet please come sign of blue sheet if you have the other one please bring it up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:36",
    "text": "that\u0027s right well it\u0027s right well I mean [Laughter] [Music] you "
  }
]