[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] hello hopefully you\u0027re here for the cider ops meeting and not net mod which got moved to Sofia we\u0027ll get started in a minute I just have to get one law set of slides loaded closer to the mic more to the mic closer to the mic better that\u0027s ok good I just want to say thank goodness you got the room I mean can you imagine how bad it would be if we\u0027d been in a smaller room okay somebody could kick the door back in the back closed I think we can get started this is IETF 100 this is also the cider ops meeting not net mod if you think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "you\u0027re in net mod you should go to Sofia it\u0027s that way oh wait that way it\u0027s not here I\u0027m Chris this is ko here\u0027s the note well I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen it before it might be last year\u0027s model says the same thing though we have an agenda anybody want to add anything say anything different rudiger I would like to have a little bit of Mike at the end open mike at the end we\u0027ll do anything else up somebody from net mod Oh before we go to the slide for the status actually a status Jim so we have a bunch of draft so seven drops one in more group last call just recently LTI use cases would be great if people read it made some comments thought through it again origin validation clarify the author came to say something as well about that please read it and last call it who are you again sir and eio J it\u0027s it\u0027s a boring stupid little document but their vendors actually will a couple of them have said they will implement it if we will just agree that this is what\u0027s needed okay wonderful so the author would like us to read it and then hopefully push it through to a worker blast call in the next short while cute but then speaking as a working group member I just wanted to let you know that that draft is in fairly stable state okay wonderful related the route server RPG iolite is perhaps ready for a working group last call I think we haven\u0027t heard from the authors in a little bit but we can ask on the list Saturday ups RP is new as of a week or so ago tree validation is Tim you oh we just adopted that sorry oh so it was sign houses new or no sign house when we adopted go yes on three validation we Austral lost goal on that it\u0027s in it\u0027s in last called nap yes ah great sorry about that my note-taking on this is not so great Beach pieces Tech rollover is also an II\u0027s iesg status at this point I have a quick thing about a cider draught to talk about pardon Mike it died off how about this no broken hello yes no nope hello bugger "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:31",
    "text": "there we go it\u0027s working now I\u0027ll go back to this one okay so sandy Murphy had some questions for the cider working group which we can pretend like we\u0027re that group today for a moment [Music] oops this one sorry she had some questions about router keying thus these slides are updated on there they\u0027re published so we can talk you can read them later and talk about this amongst yourselves but the point is there\u0027s a set of questions and comments about the draft somebody else should read them make sure that they\u0027re saying and then the author\u0027s in Sandy and you can can make some agreement about what to do from here again I\u0027m not gonna read through all the slides the the biggest point is that there\u0027s a set of outstanding comments before it can move forward so let\u0027s have a little bit of read and do that we\u0027ll go back to the slides okay draft status okay other presenters that means the first person up is Erica oh I should have also said if you\u0027re presenting you have to stay in the pink box so the people on the video can see you please talk into the mic unlike me if you feel like you want to take the mic out of the holder feel free to do that just stick it back before you leave and heir come let me find your slides good afternoon i\u0027m erika from Granada Colombia I don\u0027t speak English very well but I try to the best possible this presentation is about or the invalidation in the infrastructure of Renata I want to explain what Renata Renata is the the network education or not all the national research of education in Colombia disconnect and articulate they all the factors of the national systems of the science technology of innovation in Colombia through the connection with Clara "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:31",
    "text": "networks Clara is the network an academic connects between them the network of the region and Latin America and them between them and with the world through international links giant and Internet - this is the infrastructure of Granada a I can you can you see the 22 notes and the 2 notes in the interconnection points next list and 2 interconnection and the 2 interconnection points with the links and the connections with red Clara and connections with Knapp Columbia and our service Internet service provider next M this project was this project was was carried out with our resources recite from Frieda regional phone for the innovation in Latin America and the Caribbean and this project additionally has the support of Cisco engineers such as Alberto Ratana and engineers from latnok Herradura next please Thanks and these are the objectives of the project this is the technological process and which you know very well next and these are the activities that we developed in the project next and in the first activity we obtain the following results 328 professional strength and beautiful seminars 69 professional strength at seminars and the most important results in this activity are telef√≥nica generate the signature for 1,100 nice resource from not foul to the ballot okay and then we start on the trials and these are the keep equipments that networks and these are the system "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:31",
    "text": "operative with the equipment\u0027s this is the topology of proof of trials next please and in this activity were validated this number two prefixes and these are the results but two valid on invalid are not found for these prefixes in the implementation in the environment production productions the following platforms were our install it rip and CC rpki validator 2.33 2023 Esplin enterprise PHP myadmin and the in the next in the next slide you can see the topology of the problem the topology of the production in in this activity we we have done important issue because by internal policies in the configuration of BGP of the network we don\u0027t have the we don\u0027t have the roots in global mode instead in global mode VDP instead we have them into BRF and these because internal policies in Renata and next please and in this in this slide are they to be ref a 1000 a 100,000 BRF and 100,000 to and this is the number of the prefix in english next piece W of the we live in 100 in 100,000 contains the prefix directed to nab Columbia and internet and me will be RF BRF 100,000 contains the prefix direction of Columbia and Internet meanwhile be live on 100,000 to contains prefix for read Clara these are the results to the the valley they they validate the day for four days because this the region validation was active activate in twenty four nodes and it was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:34",
    "text": "necessary to generate a little patch of our ions in the equipment\u0027s of the MPLS science the information in the media P Road is not in the VDP global mouth but inside the BRF into the other family so it was possible to activate the validation in the artist family in order to validate the no roads contain in in turn in the bf in the following form next piece this these are the configuration into the VF with a hundred thousand and a hundred thousand to they the same configuration the these are the results on the the fear validation next place and and here you can see the prefixes some prefixes ballots into the bf 100 100,000 bf the summary of results in this these face is 100,000 once 1,100 seen 15 sign perfect set size the first training three thousand twenty twenty twenty hundred twenty eight professional strain it and the most important date is is in this moment the patch we was applied into equipments Nokia is in development but the iOS demos for the equipment certainty 7750 Nokia these are the report we arrived 100,000 report and you can see they not found valid and invalid rule a prefixes in in a roots from the nap Colombia and intern and commercial internet and this Andes the report one hundred thousand to the graphics has not found valid invalid in these prefixes these prefixes are read Clara and the number of day a a perfect size not found is very high this project is the first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:37",
    "text": "in considering and in considering the implementation of origin validation international network and the next steps we and the Nexus tips we do active activate the patch in the Nokia device a was development expand a idea in the economics networks from the collaborate collaborate collaborative world with Clara Network and experiment with Islam and white least I\u0027m not there validated extensions Thanks speak me is loli [Laughter] me i\u0027ma Randy Bush irj um nice work Thanks have you analyzed the invalids in other words those that small percentage that\u0027s invalid are they due to a s violations or - oops sorry are they due to a s violations are they due to be the classic aggregation Diego you know wrong prefix length do you know have you looked at them and by the way - congratulations to America latina to be no lead on this period I think it\u0027s really cool but have you looked at the invalids to see why they\u0027re invalid I [Music] don\u0027t know if I is stunned the question but Casey we stay a sister for kissing but the other roots okay yes in in the numbered invalid roots in red Clara are invalid because not not seeing Signet yet but they they valid or not found rule in the NAB Columbia and in commercial internet maybe some some prefixes re but are not found or invalid because because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:41",
    "text": "but configurations in in his network and the prefixes of Greg Clara I am NOT signature yet maybe a lack NICs research department could help dima from Z is I would like to thank you for tuning in salami your test Bell so I\u0027m one of the cause of this draft that describing the Islam specification and I\u0027m looking forward more feedback from your work thank you experiment with lonesome yes now we worked with Alberto and Amir with the then the new the new project for for for the proof is Islam in the in the network of Renata and I I don\u0027t I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know what tips are are from the implementation is alarm in these infrastructures but as thought officer so does this one it doesn\u0027t work okay sure tempered so yes ha all right on the right and to see RPI validator that you using and slurm it doesn\u0027t support the current slurm document but it has the same functionality in it in a different format so at least with regards to row house which is what you\u0027re interested in so you can do the same things as you can do its norm in that validator using a slightly different format so for your experiment I think it should not matter in short thanks just to clarify these are planned things right so there\u0027s no experimentation going on yet but there\u0027s some interest because there\u0027s some of the resources that ran out the has that they need to advertise internally and to other people so they want to experiment with that I\u0027m sure that they will be in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "touch with you guys exactly how to get that done eventually yes um on that subject I don\u0027t want to steal too much my time but we\u0027re also working on a new version of the RPI validator so at some point when that is ready for first use I would be very interested to talk to you and anybody else who wants to try it out and give us feedback on how it\u0027s working and features etc information let me know draft you know so and I guess it\u0027s going to be revealed by the ICG so I such as you could put some in your test bed wait it\u0027s get published as apathy thank you thanks mmm thank you very much now here speak is by now he he wants to speak Spanish here yeah the cookie thing it works like no it\u0027s too friendly ok hello everybody my name is Matias village and I talked about applica deployments with ixps actually this was kicked off by Andy as well just to make this clear I\u0027m not talking about any research I\u0027m more talking about stuff that I collected and which is publicly available anyway so um so what is the knife speed just to remind us and XP is a company or an Europe more an association where that interconnects people and autonomous systems and this is also difference between how an XPS operated in the u.s. compared to Europe and Europe the mostly associations and this piece do a lot of community building organized technical meetings to provide as a members with new updates and our experience was actually is that this helps also with deploying a PKI we had several times the case that after after meetings where we talked about epic a is that the members started to create the words and actually also think about seriously to implement filtering on the about us on the technical side there\u0027s also this nice little thing at an IXP quite well java and that interconnects autonomous systems that acts as a proxy for appealing to ease the peering configuration next slide please so what is then next okay it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:42",
    "text": "low um but this what this is i whatever doing and I means I experiment must do not usually appear directly with each other but peers without servants are out server then distributed BGP applet messages to these members obviously not all XP members do this public viewing without service but most of them and yeah and then you can also think about how to leverage this word server to improve security which in this context means that our Java is doing the origin validation instead of the PS itself and some people argue that is not a good idea to outer security but if you think about this more carefully then you have two options I mean either you do not trust the route server then you have to deploy actually the origin validation on your own routers or you trust about server and then you can also benefit from these functions or tautomerization under what server itself next slide and yeah now what are the options how an IXP gets involved into a Epica are not involved I mean they can do nothing ok that\u0027s a boring thing and but there are also three other options one is to just provide a application server for their members to ease the start of the deployment and they can also do the origin validation on the route server and then take the BGP updates I mean in general remote server should act transparently but in this case it also would at a specific community that Express the validation state of savate there\u0027s also a draft on this topic in this working groups it\u0027s a lots of our applique light draft and finally the route server can also actively filter the updates based on the validation outcome so this is a three major options that an XP can do to get involved into Africa now the question is which I experienced what next slide please so one of the first I explained that not only provided a cache server and validation taking but also active filtering was a ixp in VO so I started this in 2013 it\u0027s a little bit actually if this is an opt-out service but they do filtering more interestingly actually is a Amsterdam internet exchange point one of the largest I excuse worldwide whatever large mean is a measured members or traffic that\u0027s not the point here but it\u0027s quite large and they introduced a new about 7 2015 the court fight without server and extended this valid server with tagging of routes based on epic ayala to meditation and fortunately "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:44",
    "text": "most of the members sticked with old legacy route server which did not have this functionality but they did a little survey around among the members and they got input actually that this √©poca a functionality should be back ported to the legacy route service and not only this so the members also voted for default filtering of invalid prefixes so since October 2017 at this October 2017 and this legacy route server filters per default or invalid prefixes based on the applique I and only very few members actually opted out of this option yeah there\u0027s also the Fanta X and that provides cursor validation taking since quite a while and announced that I will introduce filtering per default until end of this year which is also pretty cool I would say next slide there are few other ixps particularly in the Latin American region that provide validation and tagging next slide and a few more I experiment or in South Africa also colombia colombian and japan said provide public caches and as i have few other explanation the London internet exchange Minh said it\u0027s a moment do not provide actively infrastructure for applique I but do some testing and considering to deploy some kind of epic I support most likely tagging in the near future so to conclude thanks to those guys who picked this off and answered my question and this the current - - I would say epic I in the domain of internet exchange but it\u0027s quite good I mean quite diverse set of ixps support a PKI and one of the largest actually filters invalid prefixes based on a PKI by default so surprisingly but quite cool for my I mean I was quite happy to see this that\u0027s more or less it last slide this is unrelated to the ISPs but since beginning of this year week there\u0027s also an additional a PKI implementation available that supports prefix ultra validation on November 14 an extension was merged into the new free range routing implementation which is a fork of krogger BGP demon so this is also not a bit I would say so yeah I mean really crew from the XP site a particular time six community set filters invalid spur default hopefully "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:45",
    "text": "as a follow yes it really really bozo Jake this you know if fr or does the stuff in origin validation clarifications draft yes we are we obsessed draft and we do not do any filtering party for it I mean if you follow the specs that\u0027s what that they also do you handle injections from local and I be G P etcetera terror we have a b2b or ibgp ibgp I\u0027m part of the clarification is if I hear from an ibgp peer and I should check that validate that prefix even though I didn\u0027t hear it EB GP I heard it I bgp I should validate yes it\u0027s validated but it does not drop the envelop ready for the Samsung Nexus it\u0027s yeah so doc Montgomery nest I\u0027m sneaking up on it do you know anything about the range of policies that are provided by these ixps anything beyond ignore and yeah okay I mean as far as I know nothing fancy I mean dropping invalids without deep offense I mean dropping or not that\u0027s it no special policies I mean what you what you can the I mean usually the i-x premium in particular was m6 has an option to say okay we do the hot service should do the fitting or should not do the filtering or just taking suits it I was talking with some folks at an Internet to meeting they are trying to get a small rpki pilot off the ground and a few people voiced the comment that if one had a policy that said drop in ballad if covered by valid they would be happy to turn it on hmm okay I mean it\u0027s leans up stuff around the edge and ensure every no black hole yeah let\u0027s put the tray I means a sorry that is exactly well rpki is meant to prevent event I mean what you see with an m6 example that obviously the members I mean they are fine that embeds are dropped done right they explicitly voted for this option and nothing more I mean no special configuration or power corner configuration or something like this they\u0027re completely fine just pops in minutes who do for Deutsche Telekom "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:50",
    "text": "Mattias are you aware whether any of these instances provides reporting back to the guys who are in who are announcing invalids I don\u0027t think so actually I mean with this m6a announces switch on two months before they started business and I\u0027m not aware that actively approaching Gemma\u0027s limits such as wife is doing with one one one has to guess that parties who are announcing invalids are not really aware of it and it would be a helpful idea yes to provide that feedback actually the current typical route implementations are not really helpful in many cases for producing such such reports I mean I can double-check with I\u0027m six guys but yeah I mean it\u0027s definitely I definitely agree it\u0027s good to have monitoring and feedback to this to the operators undulant just also a society mark I mean there was not significant traffic loss because of filtering the invalids it Sam sticks at least and those of you who are more interested in this avoids a lightning talk at the last web meeting on this if you google for wiped 75 and a PKI I\u0027m six we will find this lighting and also some statistics how many prefixes are invalid valid not found and how many members opt out offices option I just had a follow-up question to Rudy good question and actually in two parts one was I think you partially answered but do we have any idea of how the landscape looks like how many prefixes were valid invalid and then did anybody at I IXP particularly the client is piece came around and opt out I mean as I said I mean the actual numbers and the static at least for the m6 there are roughly 10% of the prefixes are valid and only very few are invalid I mean I think it was less 1 1 % very few but the actual numbers adds a slight x-type 75 4 times 6 and so it\u0027s not as bad as people actually might sing and it\u0027s also probably do because I mean some years passed already and we a lot of operators learn from this warm this configuration marks Lang and all of this stuff and siblings and so on so I would say I mean two years back we would have a two completely different view but after all of this training by I black "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:52",
    "text": "Nick and so on the overall landscape improved anyway so already thank you we have a replacement for you foo who is not feeling particularly great I don\u0027t recall the person\u0027s name however sorry so problem statement considerations for Rose she had a colleague coming this Prowler haps excellent there this clicker actually do Burks feel like I don\u0027t have to be the clicker better for you honey everyone my name\u0027s Hank I am from seeing her because of my colleague oh you fool a callus on me okay she canal here to introduce her traveler so I helped her to introduce so ok so first it\u0027s a back runner so background is paid based on offices city for it too so always the picture clear signer objects that a final address to an a s number and a sign and bytes or address holder so that means always are related to so IP address prefix we within the address block so what\u0027s the problem in currently we through our investigation always are issued with multiple IP address prefixes so this is a common is it it is a common case the HOA contains exactly one is number but many may contain multi IP address prefix in the operational process of high issues so according our coroner states statist data in the waters they are on the total number always is around seven thousand hallways but there are so number of hours with a single prefix is around three thousand on the number of hours with the multiple IP address prefix is or a know four thousand huh so so that means there are four four four four thousand now eight objects there will have a runner forty southern IP addresses prefixes so normally they are always with two two to ten prefixes lauranna three southern hurt but they are even they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:53",
    "text": "always with more than 100 prefixes there\u0027s a run of footy so we also to some explained to testator so for example we if we add a new recorder for example 2 2 0 3 total 0 1 1 3 taught us 0 1 2 8 r / 28 since a new added new ideas recorder but i mean it\u0027s a is PMA misconfigure oak miss typo - 2 0 4 - 2 0 - 0 3 - 2 0 4 so so some by mistake or by miss typo so there will cause some problems so our objective was revoked hit by because is peace missile configuration so this is a reverse laser will cause some problem so some is configuration of isil contain mod multiple IP addresses or prefix mainly to much more serious Idzik than always with your IP address prefix so the update of the re contain multiple IP address prefix we only to a redundant the transformation between IP and PGP erodes so freeing the updates of those RS will increase the conventions time of a PDP routers and reduce their performance obviously so our suggestions the considerations also so my idea is we we suggest that convert the number of ours came out here IP address - should I be limited to limited tools or some fixed number so this is SOI so these jobs our main idea comments our come if you any questions that may better who send it to SoCo salsa and also many nice huh because I\u0027m no not her the cause of this draft oh I I can collect comments or questions but I cannot answer help answer thank you Randy Pausch i oj I think this dress has much improved um I have read the current status essentially says one prefix one row is my reading which agrees I think with what we said last time I\u0027d like to ask the CAS at the RI ours George Carlos etc Tim are you issuing one for one so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:58",
    "text": "yeah we spoke about this in the past and I agreed that that should be the direction in the past the thought was let\u0027s limit the amount of row objects which is why we went for faith sharing and we have code in place that safeguards that whenever there\u0027s a change in resources we reissue row as so I\u0027m quite confident that we won\u0027t end up in a nasty situation but that being said it\u0027s easier to reason about these things when we separate them out and I think the impact on the system as a whole and number of objects isn\u0027t that significant but we haven\u0027t done the go chains I\u0027m a transit for rider more rows more rows sorry Tom from APNIC we\u0027re in the same boat as Rock so plans just not done yet Boadicea for deutsche telekom it might be a good idea to make more clear that this is essentially advice and considerations for CA implement because nobody is building the binary string of a certificate themselves and [Music] some of the concerns for creating that signed objects that break stuff quite certainly is also of concern for the CA implementation and the CA implementation actually if divides into the certificate and resource handling and the user interface via the usual user actually has not real influence on how things are get packed Daniel Shaw AfriNIC our current implementation does not limit this in any way does not we allow multiple prefixes in error we don\u0027t have any specific active plans to change that but we open to making plans okay so thank you all for your kind of christ\u0027s comments i will for though you are messages whose our course or thank you thank you next Oliver okay so I\u0027m talking today about RFC 8208 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:03",
    "text": "which basically the RFC that signs ID 1 to the ECDSA P 256 algorithm what I\u0027m proposing is was something very simple it\u0027s to get a reserved space for documentation and experimental purpose only and in this case I\u0027m talking as an implementer I would like to create test scenarios test vectors and go on further [Music] where I can create use cases that do not conflict with future allocation of algorithms so that I don\u0027t but what normally happens is that algorithm implementers might be a little lazy and then they say ok I make my use cases I use ID to ID 3 ID 485 and then in two or three or four years if you have another algorithm that has in the ID 2 then I have to change my my use cases or so forth well I want to write a best practice RC or some documentation and I make experiments in there where maybe I have a bad algorithm or something like this and if I would now say the bad algorithm is ID 2 and then ID 2 gets assigned to another algorithm I think that would not be such a great idea so the idea what I have is two you see upper range of algorithms IDs like from 254 no let me go one back to 50 1 to 254 and just reserves them to private use what also has Uniting that in case I have some experiments and it would leak out what normally I can\u0027t see but maybe it does then these augers and blocks could be ignored completely so I have a little X example what I want to show here so for example I have four outers and they have router a has algorithm ID 250 251 router B 251 252 router C 252 253 and router D is the same like router B and the ID is down there are basically the IDS of algorithms what\u0027s a support so if I now look into the RC 8205 we have the signature blocks and in theory I can have an infinite number of signature blocks in the code but the RFC says I\u0027m only allowed to have two so now if I\u0027m at router be in router B definitely does not provide C signature block the CIT 250 from router a then add router D I do not want to see the signature block so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "can create tests where I can really test my implementation see does it perform the way the RFC expects it to perform or not and so that allows me then to create test vectors that I can put on github or something else and other implementers can use the same it\u0027s the same things so that\u0027s basically let me see yeah so the next step from here would be basically to request these four numbers I was talking a little bit this key you are before and others so they\u0027re basically multiple options what we can do we can make in 8208 this or we can create a new document that updates it or whatever so I was wondering a little input on how to proceed from here on and maybe some questions or comments Randy Lucien AJ could you back up a few slides - no back back [Music] one that from I yes private use only production systems how do I know it\u0027s a production system so yeah things leak I know so I think with this you need some way of in fact I\u0027d reverse it rather than production systems must ignore that there\u0027s a flag that says I\u0027m a test system and therefore these are allowed otherwise by default they\u0027re not so otherwise it can leak and I know that you want to go so basically what I would say is that every every system and normal operation mode should or must ignore that now I\u0027m an implementer I can go into code Nick and hard code okay no algorithm one I give you no IT this and I give you I do that and it\u0027s more really for the implementer for the vendor it\u0027s not for for the user of the of the of the router so it\u0027s really something that allows me to to create test vectors for implementers and that we can that we have a little wiggle room where we can play with IDs without really interfering in real but I understand your goal and I strongly support it I just don\u0027t want it out on the internet so I think it should include a mechanism for preventing that yes so no no I totally I totally get you okay thank you very much and Tim "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:05",
    "text": "is that the right color Tim and also the wrong it\u0027s only one slide so it\u0027s okay yeah I just wanted to give a very short update on this although it people want to have discussion I\u0027m open to that so the scientists document was adopted uploaded yesterday it currently covers a definition of an RBI society object that contains a tell that is then used as a mechanism to signal a change in where a anchor certificate may be retrieved or the other use case defined there is that it can be used to signal a changing key with pre-staging setting everything up then signalling publishing an object so that it can be found by relying parties and ultimately withdrawing the old key leaving a pointer to the new location but this document can use feedback it\u0027s why I don\u0027t think it\u0027s nearly finished so I would really welcome feedback on it other things may also be discussed like maybe we should actually look at pre provisioning a new key in case the current key is lost and if and when we do that based on that outcome we may want to look apply similar mechanism again to plant key roles so without going into any of the gory details here I just wanted to say it\u0027s there please read it commands if you won\u0027t have a bit more in-depth discussion now I\u0027m also open to that but we can also do it offline and all the lists so that\u0027s all I have okay and I think somebody requested no you\u0027re fine sorry somebody requested BGP sec open mic so Ruettiger I think it\u0027s all done for unless you want to well okay not bgp sec but cider ops sure fine I would like to raise the question whoever we are missing some relevant communication for people who are involved in operating rpki in this group the specific point where I did see very very limited communication and were I have but that\u0027s a separate thing where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "I have my problems with the actions actually taken and very little communicated is the CAS moving forward to do the all resources trust anchors what I did see was NRO sending a message to side are not ops and very very sparse communication for following up to it I essentially remember a short exchange about amusements which obviously which obviously did not attack the content and I did not note significant communication when the change was put into effect late at the end of the previous quarter I think I think that stuff were we really should have more reporting and likely more discussion in Versailles drops since this is stuff I\u0027m pretty sure that is relevant for people operating in the area or considering and evaluating the value of moving into operating rpki stuff and I would be slightly surprised if no one is in the room who share who does not share some of these concerns AJ I share the concern r√ºdiger I share zero optimism that any technical or social mechanisms will change the sociopathology of the our IRS sorry so just so I can clarify a little bit maybe the re ours didn\u0027t have a 0/0 trust anchor to fall back on so they published one I\u0027m not by the way impugning anybody\u0027s purposes here I\u0027m just trying to state a fact is that this is first off correct you\u0027re correct the our IRS didn\u0027t have it because they prevented the I am I\u0027m doing I don\u0027t where it should be okay I don\u0027t want to drill down on this one we can drill down on this one don\u0027t I don\u0027t want to drill down to that I I understand there are some politics that\u0027s not super critical to me right now so this has happened now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:06",
    "text": "there are ARS publish a zero size zero\u0027 for purposes of transfer let\u0027s say of resources between regions between our ers so now we\u0027re in a situation where my resources could be signed in more than one RIR and from the other side of the world it may be unclear whether I\u0027m transferring or somebody made a mistake number one and number two from my side of the world I may have not started to transfer so I may want to know that somebody has published by mistake my resources so that\u0027s next Nexus correct or wrong that\u0027s you may want to know but you can\u0027t during transfer you don\u0027t know whether it\u0027s intent or it\u0027s an accidental dual published so I had me Randy Bush IJ um so I know sorry I apologize I know that I started to transfer or not right but my observing is a relying party don\u0027t know okay so what I said was true okay so maybe r√ºdiger what you\u0027re asking here is if we can\u0027t roll back the clock on this that we have we have some that we have some form of monitoring infrastructure either available or currently running no need to speak for himself but my interpretation and or the part of the concern I have is the lack of discussion not the particular result the lack of discussion and the lack of a forum and the at lack of acting as a community with a common interest Doug Montgomery NIST again not close enough well so I like to at least report that in talking to some other large organizations they\u0027re concerned that this is a robust miss issue not unlike unscoped CAS and at least asked me the question which I couldn\u0027t provide an answer you know if this doesn\u0027t create a broader risk scenario to explain why and I couldn\u0027t explain why can I ask you to maybe use a few more words about why you think this is or why you think they think this is a robustness issue it could be black helicopters it could be local law enforcement in countries around the world if I\u0027m let\u0027s say a government agency and somewhere around the world someone could exert pressure to allow a different or I are to sign Aurora for a longer prefix for my routes I would be concerned thank you [Music] again reinforcing Randi first first step "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:13",
    "text": "I\u0027m talking I\u0027m asking about well okay are we actually getting sufficient communication and information without with with more and better information we might actually find ways to find things agreeable that are not that clear at the moment for institutions thinking about well okay how much can we trust all of this one even might go to the legalistic view of looking at the CP of the whole system and at the CPS of some of ECAs and question whether the text that\u0027s there is actually subverted by what is happening the technical the technical the technical evaluation may be different but what can be perceived from the outside can be really awful Randy Bush IJ again drilling down on this is probably I\u0027m not sure where I want to go but Doug do you see the exposure of subversion with the RIR is each doing 0 0 Y is greater than the RIR is each having four fake subsidiary Charlie Foxtrot in other words did this really make it worse and I suspect not [Music] let me just say that this put a lot of fuel into the black helicopters for some people yeah Tim Wise right MCC I cannot speak for anybody else so yes unfortunately there are politics here and constraints I can\u0027t solve them I doubt that anybody in this room consultant but on the communication proms we did not sense the update that we did to side our ops I can make sure that that happens we did send it out on other channels we do explain how a structure works in effect we had a zero zero at the roots that is offline then we have an online component beyond that that we can operate in production from that we got a third level certificate that also reflects the resources that we publish in other sources such as among our stats and from that we issued to members\u0027 so even though we over claimed at the top you can verify that it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:14",
    "text": "consistently what we see in other places we also publish transfers that are complete so that\u0027s one other source of data you can look at so yes Tim is correct that the our IRS did tell Sider what they were doing the difficulty is they didn\u0027t actually ask whether it was a good idea or what anybody thought of it they just said this is bloody well what we\u0027re doing deal I don\u0027t want to get into the politics because that\u0027s kind of futile the thing is there have been cases in the past where some large monopolies that had a control point has done something that was technically stupid and some portion of the IGF has called them on it and sometimes they back down you may recall a thing called site finder okay maybe it would work if we actually wrote up all the things that are horribly wrong with this maybe it wouldn\u0027t but it might be worth a try he feels about this I suspect that\u0027s more likely to get results than sitting here worrying about the politics because re our politics have been broken forever and we can\u0027t fix that here Chris tomorrow Google so Rob that\u0027s that\u0027s sort of where I was trying to get to is we might need some monitoring and management stuff but we maybe also should write something down about is this a good idea or not oh sorry I\u0027m not eating the mic enough says Randy again we may need some monitoring and management work done for operating the network stuff that we have but maybe we should also take the time as Rob said to write down what this is good or bad for is there somebody who would like to take a start at that Ruettiger since you stood up I\u0027m knowing I\u0027m known for avoiding doing slide where and text and I am I doubt I doubt I\u0027ll change until they force me to retire one point on Chris on your discussion of what what technical problems are under the hood of the all resources anchor the question for telling about how resources and details in CA operation actually are done for the interesting things have been raised for quite a number of years and have not really been answered and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:16",
    "text": "kind of with that memory what we have seen recently kind of fits into a pattern that does not look very nice but yes it need we need we need documentation and for while oke referring referring to Tim\u0027s comments yes Tim did show me a web page that explains the hierarchy that variety she is using I didn\u0027t see something like that from the NRO and sorry I I\u0027m too lazy to go out and investigate every every other root CA whether they and were they actually published something like that is the structure that Tim was talking about common across all the root CAS probably not rain approach RJ the point I think I would amplify ridiger is that that document should have been published as a proposal before this was done not whether it\u0027s bad or good it should have been discussed I mean even I can does better than this and that is a curse okay but aside from shouting into the wind what do we do sharing the wind I suppose you could take my initial question as a question to V our IRS whether they consider to do more open detail communication I\u0027m not going I\u0027m not going I\u0027m not going to change my my customs about not writing and start to write for the for the our IRS what they are doing I don\u0027t know Chris if you want Randy Bush I J if you want a measurement structure to look at it then please write the draft describing what you want instead of trying beat it out of people who are trying to discuss a different problem no I\u0027m sorry I was not asking for the measurement I was saying if if what Rob says is appropriate if somebody\u0027s good it can put together a document that says this thing happened it wasn\u0027t wasn\u0027t so cool we think can we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:21",
    "text": "get the IAB to make some statement based on that I was gonna say that usually it\u0027s the IAB who does that kind of thing okay are there any exalted IAB members in the audience yeah so much for that okay so so that mean that means we\u0027re kind of back to shouting into the wind and writing something perhaps brief to send to the IAB and say hey this thing happened maybe we should think about the impact of that that seems fine the other thing is perhaps I don\u0027t know and I\u0027m not going to try and get into the I try avoid the politics here I don\u0027t know that the re ours have a responsibility to the IETF proper they have the responsibility to the Internet and to their particular community so did they message this to their communities in a way that was useful there or should the message be hey by the way before you do something like this again please make sure your community agrees to this message and if you need help formulating technical data there\u0027s people that will help you do that [Music] for the first question I can tell you that within my regional circumstance I did not see sufficient timely information are not sure whether how it looks in Asia Peck or in Africa or somewhere else and I lost the second thing Carlos lacnic going to your point crease yes indeed they are IRS feel that they have a responsibility towards their communities I\u0027m not exactly sure what they feel about the responsibility towards the ATF I\u0027m not saying there is none but it\u0027s probably not as strong as the responsibility they feel towards their communities there was communication going on to our community there was an open call for comments on the movement to 0/0 and we got exactly zero comments earlier I know you were aware of the public consultation did you submit something are you talking about the thing that was expired a year before you did the announcement no I\u0027m talking about something that went out this year perhaps two or three months ago requesting comments from the community no I\u0027m not aware of anything and anyway anyway the anello statement by John went out something like a week before the park the park ietf and unfortunately I was in personal circumstance that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:22",
    "text": "disabled me and I should not have when a gun to Prague for that and I probably would have made made noise in Prague if I was not somewhat handicapped but anyway one one one comment on the responsibility with the global with the global distribution of the unique numbers the our IRS actually I think have a come have a responsibility to the global Internet at a debt as a whole the the Internet at the the number distribution is for running the Internet and it does not work if any of regions works on some localized special interest that would yeah if if if we are IRS decided to go that way I think they should grab up a penis should grab a hundred no up 20 20 20 elsewhere used Class A\u0027s and distributed to China and India yeah Danny McPherson I just wanted to observe that the IB did comment on this in 2010 and I don\u0027t think they said anything else so someone may want to ask them to clarify their comments it was specifically on this issue if I recall correctly and it hasn\u0027t changed and it\u0027s one of the reasons why I think a lot of the people have some concerns with rpki and I think if I had an issue with what recently occurred then I proud if I cared I would probably use my RA our membership I\u0027m not sure that this is the right place but I think that anybody that swats could probably suspect that the RER is where they said this is an artifact of the architecture and the implications on re ours not just about the RRS wanting to do things to protect themselves right Randy Bush IJ the 2010 thing with the single root not the process of how CA structures changes being discussed with the community before being executed Ruettiger Doug do we want to work on a skeleton of a document to carry to the IAB to say there\u0027s concern about this could I mean we can bitch forever it\u0027s it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:26",
    "text": "nice to have a change from Bishan about I can but you know thank you for the direction anything else rope with Mike and I think we\u0027re done a little early thank you very much see you next time [Music] [Music] you "
  }
]