[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "push do you want to be for sure you\u0027re conceived of this awesome which which one do you want brie reviewed section four yes i will be the relay i will do a rewrite section 4 i\u0027ve learned her things like good enough got to go so yes i will do it they cannot done accomplish whatever swaddle in America so yeah I\u0027m assure you Oh oh yeah [Music] alright cool yes close enough that\u0027s great all right we\u0027re going to go ahead and get started this is the joint meeting of tik tok and ntp hopefully it will be the last joint meeting and we will actually get these two working groups combined into one like they ought to be so this is the 0 first of all I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "need a jabber scribe and a minute taker volunteers volunteers I have a piece of paper up here you can write huh pen and paper will work what geez the back it is because mi I just you know just rough rough minutes okay so yeah cop says he can\u0027t hear me art do any of the rest of the remote people are they able to hear we should be using the ntp room which one is this yeah there\u0027s nobody in tick-tock except me so excellent volume is a bit quiet but okay okay Christophe can hear okay everybody else can hear fine so hopefully it\u0027ll be fine so we have a note taker and we will do a community effort on scribing this is the IETF note well you all have seen it before you checked the box when you registered that you have read this go to the next slide please so this is the agenda for today we have basically the administrative and agenda bashing portion we have the ntp portion and then we\u0027ll have the tick-tock portion so starting with the ntp working group agenda we have the working group status an update on the NT on the NTS work and this is where i remembered on shell that i forgot to update the slides because the mac for ntp and the open paren was i need to go back and get your last name i remembered your first name and I apparently forgot to do the rest of the update so anyway on child will tuck tuck tuck us about the mac brain TP a data minimization and we\u0027ll have a short discussion on the ref it updates yang data model are those guys here yet don\u0027t know oh that\u0027s right they\u0027re coming from deterministic networking one of the things we did this time was we didn\u0027t list terminus networking as a conflict and it really should be and so will will fix that going forward I think they\u0027ve got scheduled on top of each other and so there\u0027s a lot of crossover so the Yankees will be coming from there and then any other business so is there any a bashing on the ntp portion of the agenda no ok so the tick-tock agenda is working group status and then the yang "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "data models and then we\u0027ll have a short discussion on joint ntp tik tok next steps so back to the ntp working group status you all will have seen a flurry of emails today where we did not issue calls for adoption that we were supposed to have issued after the last meeting and they all got issued today or one of them that issued yesterday I think but anyway in any event so i was talking to brian today he\u0027s not here for this meeting the and he\u0027s not available to participate remotely oh so Dennis put in the jabber room what has happened to the bcp and we\u0027re about to cover that ok so the call for adoption on the mode 6 has been issued there were two questions from Brian so first of all a clarification on the call for adoption because I\u0027ve seen some good comments come in on the emails that have gone out so far it one of the things I want to be clear about is commenting on the when you\u0027re come into putting in comments for the call for adoption i still think we need to be clear that we\u0027re we\u0027re planning to adopt the document so all of those comments are great but if you if you think the document should not be adopted you need to be very clear about that and that\u0027s what I meant by silence is going to be considered as a consent and I think some some folks are being clear about that and otherwise it would be great if we could be a little bit clearer so the two questions from Brian one was did anybody have an issue with the formatting this formatting dates back to the way dave mills did some things and the second question that he had was are there any new mode 6 commands that need to be incorporated so does anybody have any direct feedback on that now otherwise brian will be sending this to the mailing list I believe on shell this addressed the draft that was that we did the call for adoption on addressed the comments that you and Sharon raised previously the security issues were addressed by that okay okay so Harlan would rather respond to the mode six step by email so that\u0027s the status of that the second thing is the bcp this has been around for a long time and it\u0027s never going to be it should be considered to a certain extent a living document because best current practices will change over time and I think we\u0027re over obsessing over what should be in there so we have issued the working group last call it\u0027s going to close on the seventeenth of April that gives you about three weeks I\u0027ve already seen some good text come in that\u0027s excellent and we\u0027re planning to schedule a virtual interim the end of april which we\u0027ll talk about later I know dennis is online Dennis did you want to comment it all on the vcp okay I\u0027m going to take "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "silences you have no comments so that brings us to well actually will stop here and do the NTS stuff so you want to bring up his slides and while he\u0027s bringing up Daniel slides Dennis\u0027s comment in the jabber rim is to tell people to read it and tell them what they think I think the key for the vcp is are there obvious areas of omission or things that need to be fixed right away and if you\u0027re going to submit that comment you need to submit text to go with it all right are you doing understanding doing it not a particular feeling that he\u0027s lost to us we rich yet he napped a lot of loud at Raymond we catered but I\u0027m in focus on the pub we focus over these reviews between there\u0027s no profit sparrow you\u0027re still complaining remotely you\u0027d be louder okay tap it too safe it subtle is it on no no it\u0027s fucking okay ah better okay um the whole flurries if it\u0027s better okay nick is the next slide okay changes from the version seven to eight Danielle replace the detail as part with a TLS for the key change for the mode sweet and four packets we also we work to language about nonpareils ability in the section objectives and privacy considerations and then I\u0027ll also remove the option to pick a peck the key change packets on the ntp on ntp packets so that has been the decisions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:18",
    "text": "from the interim meeting in Boston last year and this is now finalized in the draft to summarize so different words for mode 1 and 2 packets that raft is using detail as to for the creation other as two transports ntp packets as dtls payload modes we inform packets are protected by and authentication taken in an nth extension which is transported over the normal ntp part the key changes done via TLS martex packets are protected like mode 1 and 2 packets currently a Harlan stand lanced oh awesome on tour to transport mode 6 packet over TLS connection so that might be added in the future Mike yeah probably wants bikram tell from this matter but what I hurlan saying is that he may want to add support for for mode 6 over tcp so it\u0027s so doing doing that over with with mts support what it would entail liquid until then using TLS rather than rather than detail us but just that note that the look the claim I heard from Harlan was more TCP rather than pls okay okay so next octave I just one quick question of Harlan says and there in the jabber room that removing the piggyback option why not leave it as an option oh we had a large discussion on that issue in Boston and the consensus was that it is more secure to have not that many options in the draft and yes that that was the main reason to to cut down the different options to every quite simple but supporting the piggyback option would also entail going back to doing the key exchange / dtls rather than tell us if we\u0027re pretty backing on something UDP base then we\u0027re stuff to tell us yes 6d okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "we did go on a cue okay oh go 400 carlin if we\u0027re going to be supporting DTLS from modes one and two allowing a piggyback option is I don\u0027t see where there\u0027s any extra work there and it\u0027s certainly easy enough to use words like may instead of should or must and that gives implementers the option of whether or not they feel like adding that complexity this is about mechanism not about policy so we should give people the mechanism to do things if they want to and then it\u0027s local policy choice whether or not they do them there is nothing in the specification that says you must not use some alternate transport for the key exchange we\u0027re simply not specifying how to do it and we\u0027re giving you we\u0027re specifying one recommended way to do it we have different perspectives on that you have different perspectives on what\u0027s in the document or no as to whether water Boston was I don\u0027t know that it\u0027s going to be productive to have a discussion about this right now my point is that I would rather see it\u0027s not going to do any good to not specify these things and leave it to different implementers to decide to do this in a possibly incompatible way in my opinion it\u0027s better to go ahead and specify it as an option that may be implemented and you specify how it\u0027s done so that there\u0027s huh why do you want that ups in there I mature what\u0027s your use case but I think that it doesn\u0027t hurt to specify a minimum set now and add other options wants clear use cases have been identified and I think the question that\u0027s being asked is what\u0027s the clear use case for the opt for the option you\u0027re asking to put in flexibility is the obvious one also if we\u0027re going to be supporting dtls for uh modes one and two prohibiting it you know if you want to make the assumption the people would have to implement this four modes three and four as a piggyback option unless we\u0027re talking about something different here because of key exchange I i think that the advice from the security community would be that if you don\u0027t have a use case for an option you should not specify it yes you hadn\u0027t what there\u0027s a difference between using this out in the evil bad internet where there\u0027s one set of constraints and in an in internal situation where you don\u0027t have some of those constraints so it\u0027s fine to not to say don\u0027t do this on the big bad internet it\u0027s something else to say because you can\u0027t do this on the big bag internet we\u0027re not going to look we\u0027re not going to give you a clear way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "to implement this internally in a more friendly environment so I mean I perhaps this isn\u0027t a productive time to have this conversation but my question back to you is still what is your use case for doing it flexibility is not a use case say that\u0027s it\u0027s a condition okay characteristic aspect it\u0027s but it\u0027s not a use case and I think what we\u0027re looking for here is without a use case a reason why you would want to do this and perhaps we should not specify it yet and once a use case becomes obvious and we understand the use case then we can add the capability or add the option I submit it\u0027s probably not useful to discuss this more at this time go ahead Suresh a couple of things that are Christian like Eddie hat on I think it\u0027s going to be incredibly difficult to justify this like I in do this in my friendly piece not on the bad internet into the iesg so this is gonna like probably get hit with like discusses from all the security Eddings like that away when it gets there so I don\u0027t want to go there but even before that like procedurally right Kevin so like if you want to like close this once and for all like do a consensus call on the list and say like okay like do you want to keep this or not and if people are agreed agreed like RF happens and there are problems in the rough right like I\u0027m I think that\u0027s probably one way to like this part from here inside the working group but I\u0027m just telling you already that it\u0027s going to be difficult in the iesg to like get this through a security review I have an issue of a document right now where people kind of said like hey like we have this bunch of ID\u0027s like we can pass a mobile IP okay and they say like oh this other thing looks like really cool we can use this in the future and people are saying why so the document is now back in the working group I\u0027d saying like okay justify why you need this so I see this having the same path in the iesg okay saying like so I don\u0027t see a point Harlan but it\u0027s probably left to a point when it\u0027s needed like Anna\u0027s like daniel said like it\u0027s nothing preventing there\u0027s no must not use anything else so I I think it\u0027s really open and we can probably write another draft which describes how this works and then take that independently in the working group okay that one yes and I have one more question then are we talking about doing the dtls transfer in extension fields over an NTP packet or we assume that ntp packets are going to travel over a dtls connection if you are using if you are using NTS 26 rows one and two then then you will not be doing that on the ntp port you will be doing that on a detail a sport for NTS and sending those ntp packets as application data house ntp supposed to know that it\u0027s going over a secure DTLS connection ed what that did you not for me i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i heard you perfectly i don\u0027t understand the question why would it not know you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:25",
    "text": "assuming a foundation how does ntp know whether or not the packets at sending are going over a DTLS protected connection because the ntp demon is setting up the connection okay so ntp would open up a connection on some other well-known port and it would use that port for detail it would do a dtls exchange over that port to a remote MTP and that\u0027s how it would know yes okay thank you okay next slide there\u0027s still some smaller issues and which has to be done yet that one point is for ITP service which are using a load balancer there has to be some some language to describe how this has to be done and then also in the security considerations section stairs or the subject still the subjects section angles of ntp pools which shall be reworked also yeah so i\u0027m at MVP that entity pool section so this is this is this is carrying over from from discussion from the from the last ITF but I consider the current language in there simply saying you won\u0027t be able to use NTS for MVP pools more than suboptimal um if if if we want to push this for wide adoption because MVP pools or what almost everybody uses um so handling the handling the the key management temple in public key infrastructure for for server servers that we trust to participate in the ntp pool is a non-trivial problem and i don\u0027t expect a complete solution to that problem prior to publication of this draft but i would like to at least have some discussion of what direction we\u0027re heading there so that I can have a few relevant sentences in the security considerations section but that would also wise a question how to make how to establish trust in their members of a cool wouldn\u0027t it and then there\u0027s a generic NTS craft this man was intended to provide a generic protection schemes for Unicode cost messages for MTP and PTP it is continent it\u0027s somehow "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:27",
    "text": "outdated and but Christophe wants to continue to work on it and he wants to make it consistently sir mr. craft using NTS for MTP and because it\u0027s it is quite generic sister intend to change his status to an informational 12 that\u0027s it and occasionally any other questions on the status of the security work so a year roughly a year ago we put out a consent working group lost calls on three documents the CMS document has been parked the generic NTS document is he was just talking about and we\u0027re going to update that and publish it as informational do we have a time line for that waste of sent me email and and stated that he won\u0027t submit a new version before the next I cutie okay so we\u0027ll have a new version before the next ITF and then the third document is the NTS for ntp document do we have it so we believe that there\u0027s just a few minor issues one more update and then issue a working group last call and we think that\u0027ll be so we we have an an ntp interim meeting dumb plan for set for some time next day sometime next April um i think the best thing to do will be to UM start the start the last haul they day before that meeting the day before that meaning ok so for others that are for everybody else now\u0027s a good time to read and review the document and get some comments in we do an orican good last call in anticipation of the April meeting so you don\u0027t do expect a rev before that yes okay so they\u0027ll there will be another rev and then they\u0027ll be a working group last call okay okay let\u0027s go back to the agenda so the next item was the mac document did you just I know you don\u0027t have slides you just want to save a couple words about what the status of it is and wait what you think the next steps are there is no major changes on the mac dropped since the last last ITF we had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "the thumbs-up from see FRG group and most of the people in this working group and if anyone has any feedback or comments we can make changes otherwise I think it\u0027s ready to be adopted okay i do think i also created a bit of confusion on this document today go ahead to rational chrisman so cannon would you like me to get like a sick day review for this like just early think the review I can do that um so first let me describe the confusion that I just caused um we were trying to clean up administrative stuff on adoptions that we hadn\u0027t issued and so I issued a call for adoption on the previous document today and so I need to fix all of that um but anyone yeah I know I guess the question is Daniel you sent in some comments but I don\u0027t know if you you sent some comments to the mailing list about on the word on the call for adoption i don\u0027t know if they\u0027re out if they\u0027re obe because of what I\u0027ve done or if or if you think that so my question for you is you\u0027re the one who\u0027s commented on it did should we pursue a sec debra byrne review now or do you think the document needs well you actually just said it\u0027s going to change yeah i\u0027m the the mac frantically draft we talk about um yeah so much my compliments the mailing lists are that or that I support immediate adoption of draft however in the time between adoption and when we actually push it out two of the working group I expect that it that the document will have to undergo a substantial change of character from being a broad discussion of possibilities and alternatives and trade-offs to actually being a specification for using a yes CMAC for for legacy Mac and this is where I caused the confusion because the link to the document you saw is the one that she did with all of the options and discussion but the actual one that has been adopted is is the specification oh I guess I must have read the wrong version then you absolutely did and it\u0027s all it\u0027s all my fault because I pushed the wrong buttons and the data tracker so um I was so if you just take a quick look at the the working group they already adopted working group document it\u0027s very short that does an actual recommendation oh I think then you\u0027re right Suresh we could get a sector review of this what I\u0027m trying to orders like you know we get this thing late right like so the earlier in the process like you because like especially I\u0027m doing this for security related stuff and in like I\u0027m just trying to get the like bad news if there\u0027s any earlier I\u0027d like so and if people care it because you talk to see FRG so and said there\u0027s like something that will clear the way like for the SEC a DS like at some point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "when it gets there so I think it\u0027s really good if you can do that so just like I\u0027ll wait for you to signal me somewhere and then right I just need to send out an email straightening out the mess that I created earlier today but we have I think we we have adopted a document we think it\u0027s ready to go alright next issue is the data minimization did you want to talk briefly about that please um yeah so all the updates that I have on this document um since the last ITF meeting or what has transpired in the past 16 hours there\u0027s been a push for we put out the call for adoption [Music] cut a few people have commented on it I\u0027ve responded to those comments Harlan so so far I\u0027ve heard nobody stating opposition to adoption arm as far as the cut as far as the revising the content of the document Harlan had a few comments on that he want he wanted some musts changed may I responded that um maybe should as the right thing they\u0027re armed and then he also wanted a section on randomization removed which I currently don\u0027t see a reason for and about I\u0027ve replied in the list asking asking for clarification on the reasons okay um so to go back to my early clarifying statement on these calls for adoption you\u0027re welcome to send in comments but if you\u0027re okay so your your hand is uh oh you hand is up I\u0027m sorry Harlan hey there uh as written I believe the doctor if the purpose of this document is to do exactly what it says then it does exactly what it says I think it\u0027s over each and that\u0027s why I want those should or shells change to maize because that behavior is inappropriate in various contexts and prohibiting that behavior is counterproductive Paul gear had a comment about a wider use case of why doing this behavior will make it more difficult to find operational problems in the wild as for the third paragraph of the randomization I\u0027m pretty sure my original comments say exactly what they\u0027re supposed to while I remain polite so again that third paragraph should go because it\u0027s exactly for the reasons why I mentioned so on so um anyway so I\u0027m on the first point dude do you have any objection to changing those must shoulds on and on the second point you\u0027ve stated that the paragraph is I believe income "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:29",
    "text": "reenactors inflammatory yeah i\u0027m i\u0027m up but i\u0027m used to i\u0027m unclear on what justifies any of those three statements what is missing what is inaccurate and which statements do you find inflammatory and how would you temper them I\u0027m not about to do that with you in public okay so let\u0027s go back to the first point Harlan are you opposed to the adoption of this draft uh with with look at which yes are you opposed to a draft that addresses these issues no are there any other drafts on the table that addresses these issues no so is this a reasonable starting point that we can move forward with absolutely okay so then you are not opposed to the adoption of this draft wait a second you what what the Dre I am opposed to the draft as written right but I said are you up I\u0027m not opposed to the conception to the to the conceptual purpose and with the changes I offered I\u0027m perfectly happy with it description so Harlan like I hear what he\u0027s saying and I understood this like as supporting adoption right so once the document gets adopted it goes under working group change control so it\u0027s not like Daniel making the changes anymore it\u0027s like the working group making changes so at that point once it\u0027s adopted like you are as much as a party to it as like Daniel right like any its you\u0027re free to argue the changes in the graph right so so that is the process right adoption means like does the Virgin Group wanna work on this problem not whether this is going to be the end result of the whatever document comes out so as that is that clear yes it is okay perfect okay thank you okay so uh at this point I think we can take the discussion of whether the language should be should muster may to the mailing list and perhaps we will try to craft a conversation that the interim to deal with the second issue I would encourage you Harlan to you can\u0027t say something is incomplete you need to say what\u0027s missing so we need to be a little bit more errors I guess it\u0027s not do you want me to not do that now well you don\u0027t need to do it well I\u0027m happy to do it later or an email yeah it doesn\u0027t have to be now but it had it had it has to be somewhere in public for the working group to review this is not very listener right so yeah so written your house thank you okay um so the next item "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "I have on the list we don\u0027t actually have any updates on Harlan this is the ref ID document that you and Sharon did and I didn\u0027t get a chance to follow up with either view on where we are with this and I don\u0027t know if Sharon I don\u0027t think Sharon\u0027s actually I know she has a issue I\u0027m not aware of any changes of the documents that we think need to be made um so we believe that this one is ready to progress my personal okay so we could ostensibly do a working group last call on this one so the next item is the yang data modules are the a pager did you [Music] hi Aunt Ruth this is the first time I\u0027m in the NTP working group I was recruited by other authors to come and like join this effort because I have some yang models under my belt and but I have started I actually coded a bit of ntp the auto key features where I was just an implementer so kind of combining the two experience and trying to write and up basically the yang model was already there finding out what are the issues in the and making sure that it gets moving so i think animal was the one who presented this some ideas ago and the main updates i will just go through and what are the next steps that we have in mind with respect to this young model yeah we haven\u0027t actually put it in perfect so this young model what does this do it\u0027s basically a man away for us to manage the ntp both the client side as well as the server side it has the mechanism to on figure as well as to get the real-time state most of the features for ntp for are covered auto key was something that we recently added it\u0027s incomplete as of now there are still some changes needed to be done there there is a new author easier from it ericsson and this is just a new edition before the ITF so i will be publishing a new version later based on the inputs and other things as well okay to do that so what are the changes we made sure that we could change the port because this is some feature that some of the vendors have where they allow the ntp port to change to a non-standard put if needed so that configuration is allowed earlier in the document we were having a mechanism for only a single trusted key so that has changed to a list a container for auto key has been added so we need to make sure that to keep enhancing the authentication part a little bit of structure has changed I will I have a slide on that I will talk about how we are handling the association type and the interface "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:34",
    "text": "container that we have the list of ntp interfaces how handling the many cast kind of feature those things we are adding him so this is a straightforward thing allow you to configure the NTP port by default the ATP port is always there but you you are allowed to change to non-standard this we have to take care of the security considerations as well so we will make sure to handle that part as well okay this way so what\u0027s the next change the next changes the earlier this was just a single container but the star would mean that it\u0027s a list now so we have changes to a trusted key and maintaining key ID actually there is recent work in the RTG WG as well about the keychain handling so we in the next update we will make sure that we use the RTG WG motor and keep it aligned a container for auto key also has been added right now we are using the crypt hash here we have to still figure it out which is the right reference that you need to use and whether it should be the RTG RTG wg1 or whether we have to use the net mod 1 so that discussions I am having with some people during this ITF and you will clarify that this is we get a regarding association type so earlier they were different containers so that we have simplified by having an association type and you can use association list define the association type as either server here and pool based on the different ntp modes and then manage this association and an auto key container has also been added with respect to face again some reorganizations have been done basically we combine broadcast multicast server together rather than maintaining a separate as per the ntp mode five and auto key and the many cast client and many cast server related details have been added we still plan to reorganize this a little bit based on the some ideas from the yanks best practices which we are planning to do it in the next update so oh if I remember during the last ITF I think one question what an ill asked was that is this something that the NTP working group wants to do coming from the when decide we think that we are using yang models for most of our protocols and for configuring of our devices as well as for the manageability things so we feel that entity fits into that definition and this could be one or another way for you to configure ntp and enhance the manageability part of ntp and we were hoping that this time we could get adopted and then work and up keep updating the document under the umbrella of the working group rather than as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "private draft thank you are there any question questions suresh krisshnan channeling Danny Meyer on on me dekho he says her moeraki so would you like a lab rat a bit Danny he decided that what oh sorry he\u0027s in the piercer wait hey Danny me just says start over because I\u0027d inverse tonight water can\u0027t because I like this working group has already decided that order key is very badly broken and needs to be replaced so doing anything with all the key right now on in your yang model is early is a waste of time and resources ok thanks for the input okay Thank You Danny uh Harlan either oh good there we are uh yeah so with that in mind this means we also need to add NTS in there and the other trick is is there any working suitably licensed software that demonstrates this implementation I didn\u0027t understand what you meant by that has everybody implemented this yet okay so we have currently we have a proprietary version of our young and as you know bunch of vendors already are using that confer configuring MTP and other CL eyes and other stuff so our aim to coming to ITF and doing this as a so not using a proprietary young models anymore coming to the idea of standardizing those young models and once that work is done we will implement those right now it\u0027s a probate on a proprietary version we\u0027re coming to the idea of making changes and once those changes are standardized we have to go back to our vendors and implement those young models so if you are asking this model in its in its current form is completely implemented no but parts of its are implemented okay well there\u0027s two there\u0027s two issues here one is the gang model itself the other is the code to implement the monitoring and control functions that\u0027s basically netconf andres con so that\u0027s definitely already there we are just writing the yang models and using the existing protocols this is going to work so there\u0027s no need for extra functions at the net conf in the restaurant place or any other monitoring tool that can use young models okay there\u0027s a bunch of glue missing okay so would you like to have let like us to add a little bit more information of how a young model is used ah know if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "something if it\u0027s appropriate I\u0027d like to get an email from folks and start participating and working with you guys okay that\u0027s what about uh Harlan this is Richard like would you like me to take a shot at this because I think I understand what he\u0027s saying so I\u0027ll take a shot at it please okay so just like ntp implementations right okay so there needs to be something between like setting some variable like using yang you said something using the yang model but something needs to happen to make to activate that in the implementation I think that\u0027s the question Harlan\u0027s asking God is there like open source implementation does that make sense like I think that causes questions not that actually yang model it\u0027s all like what is it connectivity between the what\u0027s done is in the yang model and what happens in like a ntp implication so if I\u0027m a device at I am implementing this young model I\u0027m going to use the protocols like net convent risk on to receive the data in form of XML in case if it is a net conf or if in case of rest conf it will be in JSON format so based on the yang format I will receive the data I would have a general a young parser which can pass any xml data based on a young file this kind of code for mostly if all vendors is already genric it\u0027s not dependent on a particular young model so we write it in a generator and we don\u0027t use support a young file there are tools like for example if you look at open daylight there are yang tools that can generate the parses automatically so we usually use that kind of auto-generated to so that\u0027s why this kind of manageability works very easily and if there is an update to a young file or a revision to an young file the glue code is quite easy to update it\u0027s not a big problem and usually this is something that is already defined in and already working for rest of the other young models it\u0027s not something ntp young specific okay two questions first i will say that i\u0027m not particularly i\u0027m not very familiar with yangyang at all are their transactions capabilities with this yes okay next at some point we\u0027ve got to find a way to take the yang data transmission so that we know what configuration needs to happen and that needs to be translated into something that queries or manages an NTP instance yeah okay Harlin yeah okay hi Harlan jared montz Haram hai uh can we take this part of the discussion offline I can maybe show you some yang models and how they interact with some platforms first I think that might you understand it a little bit better thanks thank you there\u0027s also a question from Yakov online does this replace ntp q well there\u0027s no leaving for replacing anything is just another tool yeah okay so yeah cough the answer\u0027s no alright is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "there anybody opposed to the working group adopting this work all right so I will properly issue a call for adoption on the mailing list thank you and so the last thing listed was any other business we sort of have dropped all of the there was a number of drafts related to the extension fields and when are we going to talk about those or when are we going to move forward with him that was what I was just getting ready to talk about wow you\u0027re awesome um so there was I mean there are a number of drafts and we had talked about combining some of them Harlan do you want to so there\u0027s none of the extension graphs have currently been adopted do you want to summarize what each of them are again or how do I give me a list or I can go look for a list go to go to data tracker into the ntp working group look at the bottom where it says document Jerry I\u0027m wondering if it would be best if he\u0027s dead issued call for adoption for those on the list as opposed to trying to adjudicate them all here um we we could do that there\u0027s been a fair amount of discussion on a few of them the other thing is we could t up and properly prepare for this conversation for the at the April interim okay I like that yeah let\u0027s just do that because it I\u0027m still confused about the number of drafts and what we really want to get out of it okay all right all right that that brings us to the end of the NTP agenda and so now tick tock so there\u0027s two items on the tick-tock agenda the first one is the working groups oh here it is there we go working group status so the first thing is we actually have a new RFC I know he\u0027s here but he\u0027s not he\u0027s over in the deterministic networking working group but tiles multipath time synchronization has been published as of January it\u0027s RFC 80 39 so that\u0027s a big step forward for that the second thing is we actually have the 1588 move in the RFC editor queue and with deep thanks to suresh and the document editors patients we have got "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "that moved forward the enterprise profile a PTP enterprise profile it had completed a working group last call and then in conversations with doug arnold who is at an IT meeting this week and not hear it it completed the working group class called but there was some updates that we wanted to make based on some changes that have happened in 1588 so the I Triple E 1588 document has has completed its first working group ballot and so the we\u0027re so we need to we need to get an author update on that one and so we\u0027ll do an author update and then we will reissue a very short working your class call it has been around for a while and then the hoops the last thing is the 1588 over mpls this has been sitting in our docket for a while awaiting an editor update and we don\u0027t have that editor update Oh Harlan\u0027s in the queue again hold on sorry Harlan go ahead I need the queue over here go ahead Harlan maybe it\u0027s me in the queue oh yeah in the queue yeah you\u0027re so used to having Harlan in the queue um ji Kristin yeah just about the 1588 over mpls one I think at this point it is the right thing to do to drop it since the draft which came afterwards which is more generic remember Greg mere skis wrath actually passed working group last call in the mpls working group right and this one was going to be experimental in any event so I think that we shall drop it anything else ok I\u0027m booting you out yeah cough Harlan hi there so at some point I like to discuss how we want the documents to look moving forward this goes to things like do we want to have separate proposals for like each extension field things we want to have clumps of extension field proposals or do we want to do something like have higher level you know have have high level documents to describe each thing and then we augment them as we make changes for things did that make sense it does make we had talked it in Boston about a set of groupings okay yeah but that was like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:38",
    "text": "so now we have the ref ID proposals that has like two or three ref ID proposals in it but there\u0027s a bunch of other extension field once and then there\u0027s the issue of how we\u0027ve separated the mac processing from something else with extension fields and we\u0027ve got the hilarity that we have not yet discussed about the the dock the proposal I hate and I propose some changes to and you know the question is how do we want to do this moving forward we want to go through it in chunks or do we want to have some you know add this to the section add this to the exception of 59 or whatever of you know to add some new fields under extension fields or the same thing will probably be true with mode 6 going moving forward so I think there\u0027s probably a little bit of homework and organization that we need to do to have this conversation productively and I\u0027d like to have I know sharon has involved in some bit kind of like to have her there as well and also I know that there is an ongoing disagreement between you and towel on the the clarification to the extension field that is made oh please God let\u0027s not focus on tell I\u0027ve just scream it to Danny about this too I realize there\u0027s an ongoing disagreement there are several issues and in order to have a productive conversation we need to have the conversation a little bit more organized and we don\u0027t have all the parties in the room and we might as well I don\u0027t think it\u0027s effective given the amount of time oh yeah absolutely yeah we\u0027ve gone in circles on this I\u0027m tired of going in circles I don\u0027t want to have the conversation until we get all of the key participants in the room together I was expecting to my point goes toward if we\u0027re going to work toward an April interim meeting where we discuss these things it\u0027s going to help if if it will help if we can get a decision or about the overall direction we want to proceed so are we looking at you know submitting clumps of new rfcs to add in different proposals or we looking at updating in existing RFC so that you know when a time come to add a new extension field we add a new section to the existing document under supported extension fields so you think it would helpful to have a single document on extension fields and to rev it every time a new extension field is defined either that or have or let the single protocol document have a section on extension fields and rev that every time I just personally I don\u0027t like I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:42",
    "text": "like the hunt of you know look at the top and see all the different places where somebody may have done something and then every time I go to look at it go through each one of those again to see if it\u0027s been revved I\u0027d rather have a single place to look for these things so you think that we need to do a rev of the base scored the base ntp specification that would be my preference but that\u0027s my preference that\u0027s not the least bit terrifying [Laughter] common good and bad sides on each of these and that\u0027s why i wanted to discuss it all right right so is there anybody in the room that has an opinion on any of this i oppose any approach which would treat the set of extensions as closed the entire idea of having the exhibition fields is that you can simply but simply register your extension and and maintain to maintain that maintain that document separately from everything else that we don\u0027t have to read the course back on and leave open the possibility of extensions in the private use range where if you don\u0027t if you see this and you don\u0027t recognize that you ignore it that\u0027s already done if you don\u0027t recognize any tension filled you ignore it but if you\u0027re gonna make something an extension field you gotta document it ah right so that that\u0027s not the point that yeah so if something is not in the private use reins and nobody here is proposing that we use it and leave it undocumented um but I but I I oppose the idea of a vase of a vase of a single door of a single directory that gives us a point of true if there\u0027s two as a sec well aside from the iono registry which which I think which i think is the is the directory you\u0027re interested in and when you see a river point of the you can you can either look at that which should point to let us read or you can just watch the list traffic for 14 when something is updated on but i think i think requiring us to put everything into a single document defeats the point of extensions all together okay we clearly disagree on this one so I\u0027m not I guess I\u0027m not convinced that I can provide you at this point in time the guidance on how to do this I think revving the course back every time is is not the way we want to go I think perhaps a single document related to all of the extension field types of issues and the definition of new extension fields could potentially be done the other thing yet to think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:43",
    "text": "about is I think there are other things people have suggested changing to the core specification and we haven\u0027t opened that up to do that um yeah I\u0027m trying to track down everything can be frustrating but you just make sure the RFC numbers in the registry and look at one spot and then it\u0027s a table of contents toward where the where else I think opening up the main doc really bad want something stable and trying to collect all the extensions once father\u0027s also counterintuitive to the way everything else okay so i think one or a small set of drafts is the guidance that we\u0027re getting all right i think combining i don\u0027t think we needed a separate draft for every extension field thank you where we can coalesce and that would be better but i don\u0027t as rich says i don\u0027t think we should read the base specification all right so I\u0027m pushing the red button Harlan you\u0027re going out of the queue okay so that brings us to the end of so we were on actually the tick-tock stuff and there is our the authors of the tick-tock the 1588 yang module here can you bring up that bring to download the slides for the yang module fur please stand by ok okay I\u0027m just going as soon as this comes up so I don\u0027t see the editors of this document in here anywhere so so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:43",
    "text": "this is basically a yang model that\u0027s the corollary to the mid module that we just talked about that\u0027s now in the RFC editors q if you go to the next slide and this is the hierarchy that they\u0027ve defined you go to the next slide and these are the summary of the changes there is an open source module for this it\u0027s available on github go to the next slide here\u0027s the next steps the this work is being so one of the authors at the top that you noted was Rodney Cummings and Rodney Cummings is heavily involved in the actively 1588 work and the current revision of i triple e 15 it is looking at the definition of datasets that would support whatever the underlying management model would be because in the case of 1588 you have the SNMP based management you have yang and there\u0027s also native management within fifteen eighty 80 and he\u0027s here I\u0027m just crucifying your presentation so you can come yeah I knew so why don\u0027t we why don\u0027t you I was just telling them that the update was there so you\u0027d be better you\u0027d be better off you don\u0027t probably don\u0027t need to go over there but you can go to the next steps and talk about your long jump from wahwee since the US 10 applications a 15-8 a yam audio mr. Rocky updated module it\u0027s a almost a sin but we are in large telescope of the instant in the number two comdata for 1 million instances next yeah so for this elevation and mostly it\u0027s a whole one but we are you can skirt that the hora module to simplify is structure we we introduced several new types such as ions o\u0027clock class clock accuracy thousands and also a solar you types of our Malaysian just to remove also an advantage in different modules other medicines thank you the newest module is also a pedal to the rehab side is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:51",
    "text": "holiday available in public so it\u0027s encouraged to use them and feedback any anything that\u0027s a problem just rather in the Middle East we think we\u0027ve been discussing sorta Libya and new leaf interface that we are added so it will be very convenient ever you need to look into what is the underlying physical port with uncle for definitely related her logic or so for the next iteration we we will add a visa your parents as they since version is quite a stable now so we will also listen either lost core for this draft as soon as possible thank you okay it just one quick question of the the additions do you have a time frame for when you want to put those additions in you want to do that prior to the last call that\u0027s good maybe a week or two a week that\u0027s no kind of so we will wait for the update from you and then we will issue the work in your glass call yeah and you\u0027re still closely coordinated with Ron Rodney in the 1588 community okay and the lessons learned in the 1588 mill we will also apply to this as far as getting that the proper and rot Rodney it knows what those are so we will we\u0027ll take care of that we are you good leadership all right yeah copy all right any other questions on the on the mid on the yang module nope all right um funko you yes reviews would be helpful thank you and when we do the working group last call we will also send it out to the 1588 community we will probably wait just a tiny bit so that they can finish their own working your ballot process so just so we\u0027re at the at the end next slide okay so a there is some talk about having a side meeting on security this week folks that are interested in that side meeting if you could come to the front of the room at the end we can talk about when and where to protectively do that there\u0027s been a little bit of discussion on the mailing list today about a virtual interim I think what we proved between the last meeting in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:52",
    "text": "meeting is that this is a working group that is a little bit more effective if we do have the occasional virtual interim in between so we are currently targeting having two virtual interims between now and the next meeting and Prague we\u0027re looking at late April for the first one and then late May or very early June for this get one and I\u0027ve proposed some April dates on the mailing list so people could take a quick look at that given the time zones that we cover there\u0027s not a lot of wiggle room for the time but at least the dates we can do and the third third item is the we really I\u0027ve said this before we really really really need to do the administrative work to combine these two working groups into one and recharter and I have solicited solicited the Haut the help of a former iesg member to help get this charter work done and he has agreed so look for draft reach our during text on the two mailing lists the intention is to combine the two working groups into a single one that does a Time Protocol work in the IETF because it is a very small community all right all right with that I give you back 48 minutes of your day thank you all and I need the blue shit oh if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheet please do so and that\u0027s not the blue the stake yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:26",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] "
  }
]