[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "thank you okay so audio is the mic on this mic is working right not that we really need it but for the extremes the remote stream we do and this one's working well this one's definitely working okay oh yeah audience mic test mm-hmm osphere we'll get started in a moment or two I'm waiting for um Eric who's going to help me co-chair this foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:21",
    "text": "because I don't know the other thing while we're getting started um is there anybody ordinarily ditch or helps take notes but Dieter is not well today so I was wondering if anybody else would be willing to help take notes anyone excuse me okay foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "foreign foreign so we will go ahead and get started um as I mentioned ditter is not feeling well so we wish him a speedy recovery um this is the ntp working group welcome to the last session of the week for ietf 115. um and thank you for everybody who is still here at the end of the week this is the note well which you've seen all week you agree to this when you register for the IHF it's the set of rules and processes that govern the the way the ITF operates so please make sure you are familiar with it you have agreed to abide by it and if you have any questions feel free to see diatri or Eric r a d also I'd like to remind everybody that we want to uh trying to we want to abide by the code of conduct and basically be nice to everybody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "so our agenda for today um this uh is this is the agenda for today it's up on the notes pad um if somebody a little bit faster on the link wants to stick the link into the you should be able to find it from the agenda page on the ietf you'll see which one is the notepad or somebody could stick it into chat for folks that are unfamiliar with that particular thing feel free to add to the notes as we go that will be turned into the minutes at the end so uh with that are there any is there any agenda bashing any comments or questions nope okay so the first thing is uh we have our document status review update page reminding us of the things that we are working on um the uh first thing is we do a second thing I did forget uh I'm sure by Friday everybody knows this please be sure to scan the QR code that's what we'll use to manage the queue and it also does the attendance or the virtual blue sheets so don't forget to do that um we do have a new RFC RFC 9327 which is the control messages protocol for the use with ntp V4 this uh has been published as a historic RFC in the category historic as opposed to experimental informational or any of those things so um a special thank you to Brian Haberman um and to Eric for a great deal of patience uh in getting this through the process we have three more documents that have sort of passed the working group um and into um at fdiesg in various stages uh the first one is the interleave modes which we believe we're basically going to defer to V5 but we wanted to discuss did you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "want to talk about that works words words are always good uh yes so Eric client the um interleave modes we brought it to the telechat it got uh um One Security ad abstained uh and some other people were very operational people were very concerned about the safety uh my proposal was that if we wanted to continue with the document we should I think the why this is safe stuff is is spread out through each different possible mode description and it might be worth reiterating all of that in a one common section before that that says look this is really not scary and not only is it not scary it's actually running now and and things haven't blown up uh but uh if we you know we could do that and then I can bring it back to telechat if we want or we could not pursue interleaved modes for V4 anymore and just leave that as a feature to be baked in from the beginning for V5 that's whatever the the authors and the working group wants to do I don't know so but uh Lars is pinging me saying hey why what are you going to do with this so uh it's currently in some limbo State basically between maybe we'll do something with it and maybe we'll abandon it but if we get to know what the working group wants to do one way or the other right so I think we we um we basically have have two options one would be to send it back to the working group and then to update it um with the additional safety information in a more concise manner like you're talking about or we declared a dead document and then just plan to work on it as far as data tracker statuses go those are our two options right uh well for the first one bringing you back to the working group is an option uh it could also just be handled by the author uh you know I mean it depends"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "on on how significant we think it is if it's a restating of text that already exists and has consensus then uh we're just like copying that and putting it out into one place for clarity I don't think that has to come back to the working group because we haven't changed anything okay uh if we do decide to dramatically alter something the meaning of something or whatever then yeah we would probably read back to the working group but I think it can be treated as editorial oh okay uh and it could just be handled by the author and just reply to the people who have the feedback at this point the document has changed telechat has changed iesgs uh so the objections were from some previous members who are no longer on the ESG so I would have to bring it back to telechat but Miroslav could just take some edits and we could bring it back okay I'll try again and and marisolv has conveniently already joined the queue go ahead marisloff oh hi uh yeah I think at that time this was discussed last time I think there was a suggestion to try to change it to an informational document and that would be more likely to be accepted by isg [Music] is this still an option or would it be would it make it more likely to work um I I think some I mean possibly I don't know what would change the minds of of everybody who still holds uh concerns I think the main concern from the Ops ads was that they they did not believe it was safe to do they were not convinced that it was that that widespread um problems would would not happen uh so I think they just needed some my impression or my recollection is that they just needed some convincing they needed some reassurance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "so uh I don't know that changing the informational is required so I think it was more about wait wait wait wait wait why is this safe how is this not going to break everything it didn't really they weren't able to glean that easily from the document and if we made it easy for them to see that it was in fact safe that was that was that's my current understanding yeah I don't think the status of the document necessarily would change that information sorry it's still they might still be concerned about safety how do you write do you like this version of the draft that has a new section on the safety of the protocol I think this was published after the last round of discussion so I'm not sure if they cylinder I'm not actually sure if I if I know that you had uploaded a new version if you have then I can go chase down people to to re-review it well it's a few years ago so I'm not sure I okay that's on me then I will take I will take the action item to go review the diff and uh and then chase down people's additional uh re-reviews okay thanks so so marislav did I understand you correctly you uploaded a draft that addressed that or did you send an email with a suggestion I think I I told long ago that I'm not sure anymore but this was after the the email discussion we'd have we had with isg and I I haven't seen any anyone responding to that so I'm not sure if anyone actually read it um I can I can take the action item too catch up on all the threads and make sure that everybody has uh seen all the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "new proposed texts whether it's in email or in document form I'll do that okay all right thank you marislav so I think the so you're going to check on the status but the plan is to still continue to try and publish and not to defer hmm yeah that's what that's what I heard okay okay we might as well uh take another run at it and and see what happens if everyone if if everyone's hair is still on fire then we'll we can reevaluate after the after the second attempt okay um so that's where we are with interleave modes uh updating the ntp Registries uh has been uh submitted and uh is in the process of being reviewed and the Enterprise profile has been submitted but it's still lacking a Shepherd right up so oh you did an ad eval and it has a revised um yeah I think the tick tock uh doc I I reviewed and I gave some comments and I'm waiting for a new version to be uploaded which possibly I missed in my inbox but uh yeah yeah I know I don't there has not been an an updated draft okay so I missed that you did a Navy eval so I thought I sent some comments I'll double check that too I'm sure you did and I missed it and that can go to ietf last call as soon as there's a new version as soon as we get a new version on it okay great uh so this one so updating ntp Registries is waiting on Eric to double check and Enterprise profile is uh waiting on the authors to submit an updated draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um so that's where we are with all of those the next uh set of topics these are all things that we've had some at least a little bit of discussion on since the last meeting uh for Kronos uh uh Netta is on the call this has a past working group last call and all of the comments have been addressed and the latest draft address is the last of the typos that were found is that that's correct right Neda so I think it's it is random right now I hate to do this to you could you say that one more time please uh sorry um yeah I I fixed the type of that Denmark was found and I also went over the draft once again top down to see that to make sure that everything was clear so I think um and and looking at the slides here I realized that I forgot to change the C to a k so for those who who are who are following this work at a distance uh the name got changed from Kronos with a c to Kronos with a K uh because of some uh conflict issues uh we're not going to change the file name uh itself but it will be changed in the documents and in the title with that uh Dieter and I talked earlier this week and this is ready to go to the isg and he is going to manage the shepherd right up for that how much did you have you had nothing did you have anything else you wanted to say on the Kronos nope okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "um so the next thing we're going to talk about is ntpv5 on a number of topics uh the first thing we're going to talk about is our we did have a small hackathon team here on the weekend and David's going to talk about what they did okay hello I'm David um uh during the hackathon we spend a bunch of time on entity particularly uh next slide please focusing around the the main problem questions of can we build uh experimental interoperable implementations for this and are there any major technical gaps uh in the draft as it currently stands um the results we have next slide please uh for that are there is now two experimental implementations one of these existed already before the weekend continuous labs and the other one came about mostly this weekend um we verified that they are indeed talking happily to each other they seem to be synchronizing all the loop um detection algorithms which is the main part of what we're now focusing on where what the current draft mostly focused on uh initially seems to be functioning correctly seems to be reasonably easy to implement across implementations um so we've identified a few minor issues in the ntpdrs implementation uh these have since been fixed and a few more have been found since the hackathon and have also been fixed so if you were using it for whatever reason uh there are updates available now again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "identified a few minor things as well with the draft but we'll get to that in a minute and we've had a lot of discussions on time skills and leap seconds because those are fairly hard and I will get to those at least to some extent later as well um next slide please so the main takeaways we've had is that time scale offsets especially for ut1 with uh as they currently stand in the draft won't fully work particularly should in the future it ever get decided that UTC moves away from having leap seconds as at that point the ut1 offset would be larger than one second in the current draft just assumes it's below a second and we've identified that there is a need still for a case of that type mechanism that was an ntp before it also have like an 1955 and that we need to start adding that to the current draft um these were the main takeaways next slide please so these were the people who were involved in the hackathon and a short list of links for all of the main things that were touched during the hackathon for those interested are there any questions about anything I've said so far no questions uh thank you all very much it was very productive um okay um I don't I don't see James in the meeting there has not been an update to the use cases and requirements document there has been some discussion about uh needing some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "more detail and and the feeling that we're not quite hitting the hard issues yet um and we would like to wrap this up I was sort of hoping to wrap it up by the end of the year I think we probably ought to Target the um next meeting that the next uh physical meeting so maybe the Yokohama ietf if we could Target having that at least sent to the iesg that would be really helpful does anybody have any comments on the use cases and requirements has anybody reviewed it recently oh wait you can walk that way uh hi David again um there there's one thing um I think we should still work on getting a little bit tighter on what our priorities are going to be around synchronization performance versus security uh in the in the protocol in the requirements document uh because I think we're going to at some point have to make trade-offs in in that and it would I think we need to think about those beforehand uh before we start getting down into the weeds but um are there any thoughts on that from commercial in particular foreign do you have any comments on the oh he's joining excellent [Music] I think you are referring to the correction field which wouldn't be authenticated maybe this is the discussion we had I think on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "hackathon if we need to authenticate everything or if it's acceptable for the correction field because that would be difficult for Implant to implement in the networking devices too re-authenticate 10 DB message if it was modified so there is a question if if it's acceptable to make some fields um outside of the authenticated payload um in my opinion I think that's okay because the impact that an attacker a man in the middle attacker could have by modifying the data in the unauthenticated part of the message is still smaller than the impact that for example the delay attack has basically delaying the message as a bigger impact on the measurement of the client then uh would have the the modification in the unauthenticated part in the correction field as long as the client verifies that the correction is not larger than the measured delay so yeah my opinion is that this is okay but maybe others don't share this with you um yeah to respond to that that is one aspect I think we should consider but also in general when we start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "introducing mandatory signing which is one of the things the the requirements now pretty much hints I thought we should do um you're going going to add crypto crypto to the uh response uh the request response path at the server which is gonna inevitably add additional resonance time on the server side which will impact some of the uncertainty in these algorithms for synchronizing everything and I think we should we should we should be thinking about what what Traders are we willing to make there um they're there as well as in do do we find that an acceptable trade-off uh and and how how are we going to be looking at that moving forward go ahead mayor sloth there is with the internet there should be no impact on on accuracy or stability of the synchronization with respect to the great operations that may take longer so I don't see these are as a concern okay Rick foreign open Fortress um I'm very happy that as if if the cryptos actually made very strong and because many cryptographic algorithms base uh they really heavily on time and this has been very very long been a problem that we looked away from it because that was nothing that really allowed us to synchronize with cryptographical strength it's an important thing to have proper timing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "and to be sure about it so please don't make any trade-offs in that respect and especially if you can just measure the signing time and take that make the part of your calculation any anything else on this topic um I think given the uh I think what we're going to need to do that this document is fairly solid I'll check with James and see we might need to do a working group last call to see if we can get people to review it for the last time in the meantime feel free please to review it on the mailing list that would be great all right the next topic is the ntp V5 specification this has been stable for quite a while um and we now have two interoperable implementations it's been out for a call for adoption I've heard no opposition to the fact that we plan to adopt this document so with that we will be adopting it as a working group document is there any comments or questions on that okay I'll do the data tracker magic later today and marislav if when you get a chance if you want to submit an updated draft with the working group name on it that would be great okay um the next item was a discussion of time scales um as as David hinted there was some discussion of this at the hackathon so I think it's top of mind go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "ali um yeah so after having a couple of discussions with a number of people I started to realize that the requirements document is not as clear as the opinion some individuals might have as to which approach we're going to take for uh time skills essentially there's from from what I've been able to tell and please correct me if I'm wrong on this uh mayor swath there's there's roughly two approaches we can take here we can um say that all-time stamps included in in ntp exchanges are always time stamped according to whatever best approximation a server has of one specific time skill for example Thai or for example UTC and then we provide sufficient information in addition to those timestamps to be able to get to whatever time scale an end user might want to use depending on what asks for or there's the approach and this is the approach that's as I understand it is currently in the draft is we leave these timestamps essentially leave it open which time scale that is on the protocol packet of course specifies this but there's not all ntp5 package used this time scale for their um for the timestamps and then optionally on top of that provide the mechanism for exchange of information on how to translate between these different time skills um I I think we should have the discussion which of these we prefer um perhaps that is a discussion for the mailing list um I'm but I I think we need to explore what the advantages and disadvantages of each of these approaches are because um I don't have a full feeling for which option we should choose at this point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "go ahead Miroslav oh yeah I would like to add that my focus was on to allowing the server to have a preferred time scale because you know in the basic mode the time critical part is between uh capturing the timestamp from the clock that the server is using and putting that in to the message so the idea was that the server could have a preferred time scale which could use for the transmit timestamp and for the other timestamps because it's simpler to specify it and implement it and if the client needs a different time scale than yeah it should be able to get the missing information to convert the plans into its own preferred time scale so you know the focus was on the server side to make it easier to implement the protocol by allowing the server to to use for example for instance Hardware timestamping where it might not be possible to implement UTC only without leap seconds so the client would need to be able to convert it to UTC if the server is providing timestamps in time any thoughts on this topic from anybody else anybody else online"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "I know 1588 has done a fair amount of work looking at Alternatives time time scales as well so we should probably make it take a look at what they're doing to make sure that anything we do would at least be aligned somewhat with what they're doing um because a lot of ntp and PTP systems need to coexist um okay um so that brings us to the end of our ntpv5 list of topics the next agenda item is rough time the last um update of the I just lost my data try others the last update of the rough time document was at the end of September um I know Marcus had planned to have a during the hackathon he had planned to have a virtual hackathon effort there were a number of parties that had indicated interest but they were all going to be remote participants and at the end of it we actually ended up with none of them except for Marcus coming Christopher from net node was here and was working on it a little bit as well but um he ended up focusing primarily on ntpb5 um so we didn't have much activity during the hackathon on rough time um and the authors of the document are not here so I think about the only thing that we can do is ask for um some additional comments and review on the list I don't think there's been any comments on the list of this document since it was last published um is there anything the other thing was is that the uh just as a comment the rough time ecosystem document has expired so is there anybody here who wishes to speak to rough time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "oh hi Ben go ahead hi there um yeah we're quite interested in rough time at Google and actually we've we've just been going over the draft there's a there's a group of us who are planning to do some work on it uh we've gone over the draft we got pilot comments which we will a small pile of comments which we'll post to the mailing list um uh next week sometime uh and we are planning to do an implementation um of some future ID when it's in the shape we're happy with uh we're planning to use it as part of our work on supply chain security stuff in general oh thank you good to know um so with that uh we'll look forward to the Google comments coming on the mailing list and if anybody else could please review the document and put some comments on the mailing list that would be very helpful anything else on rough time okay we have two pieces of work that we have not had recent updates on the ntp over PTP it has been out for a call for adoption I've seen no opposition to doing that and so at this stage we will be adopting that document um I'm assuming mayor slav you don't have any comments you're just waiting for us to adopt it correct okay um and the um oh that's funny there's an edit a a copy and paste error on my slide so ignore everything after NTS over PTP they might look suspiciously familiar as the items that were under the document update slide three slides ago um so the NTS over PTP effort there is still interest in doing it the primary author um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "was doing some collaboration with an industry partner and they have not gotten that update done yet so there is no update to report last I heard they were hoping to get something out in the November time frame so hopefully we'll see something coming out of that pretty soon anything else on NTS over PTP okay um so we have any other business and Way Forward at this stage the any other business does anybody have any other business that they'd like to bring oh yeah sorry if this is like an aob moment I just wanted to say two thank yous uh one thank you to everybody who helped me close out all of the open erata that was super helpful and very much appreciated uh and to uh thank you to everyone who uh did some uh very nice hackathon work that will be good to show in the shepherd write-up that there are interoperable implementations so thank you all yes thank you um any other any other businesses okay um as I mentioned earlier the attorney I met earlier this week and and we're discussing ways to keep us moving forward on a more steady Pace um I think for the ntp working group in particular sometimes the virtual interims are a little bit more effective just because of the the they're more effective in keeping us moving so we do plan to have uh some virtual interims we're currently planning three between now and the next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "ietf those are our tentative dates um this will be in the minutes if anybody has any uh strong objections to any of these dates so please feel free to speak up it's it's roughly a month or every month or five weeks between now and the March ietf meeting the March ietf meeting is in Yokohama we will be thinking about uh what we can do in the context of a hackathon I think the lesson we learned with NTS and that we are relearning with ntpv5 is it really helps to focus the work and move it forward if we can have a little bit of hackathon activity on the pro protocol as we're moving forward um so we'll be needing to figure out who from the ntp community might actually be able to participate in Yokohama or be willing to participate remotely on hackathon activity during Yokohama working hours so keep an eye out for that the other thing that we have talked about doing is I think we have um you know we're a little bit you know a couple years into the deployment of NTS and we're beginning to see some deployment reports and experimental results that we would like to talk about and see how that's going and what lessons it might teach us going forward and so we are planning um to have a discussion specifically focused on the deployment status of NTS to see if we can get some idea of who who's using it and how they're using it what kinds of results they're looking at um and so I I think since this is such a new protocol it would be really helpful to get some perspectives on that um and with that is there any other um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "anything else people want to uh bring to the floor next time I'm going to bring popcorn or something maybe maybe sugar snacks that's what you need is sugar snacks so with that uh I'm going to close the ntp working group meeting for ietf 115. everybody have a safe trip home and uh hopefully we will see you virtually and in person in the future foreign because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the important part on Monday oh that probably will I am intending to be I am intending to be happy it's the first one that's reasonable post for me uh so that one's definitely doable it would be really nice if I could swing it but MLS Joshua yeah find out"
  }
]
