[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign I plan to I also plan to but I cannot really commit to it yet yeah I may may go some certain so far foreign top of the hour now and say four minutes to go foreign not counting the canceled interim meetings this year we've had 14 entering meetings with this one that's a lot yes and some of them were sweet and strong"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:24",
    "text": "to be sure Francesca can you hear us where she has switched on the microphone that we can't read yeah yeah Francesca if you're talking we can hear you uh on mobile okay because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "I think you can start let's do that and I'll one welcome to the interim meeting of the co-working group it should be the last word is here this is Marco Michael chosen Jimenez and custom Borman and as a reminder this is an official meeting so the note 12 applies so please note well it's not just about APR it's also about our conduct so be nice and professional with each other and that said we have two main items um in the agenda for today I'll try to take notes myself any help is appreciated on our notes uh the two items are the status I'm planning next steps for um the core seed document from the corecon cluster and we were discussing before already that a design team meeting is planned in somewhere in the next few weeks we'll have a doodle about that a and then we agreed already the previous interview meeting to wrap up on the resolution of the Errata for the core documents and we got some input uh today I can see from from Klaus on the notes themselves and I also saw a mail from escort on the list no other topics were added so I think we'll stick to those let's see how much time they take and we can start with corset then Kirsten great um yeah I actually have a slight addition to the agenda maybe we can talk about the the other car constructurement comma that we have to get fixed soon where we can have a couple of minutes each about the target attributes and the Corrections"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "and clarifications um documents yes okay okay or maybe before the error so we can uh when we do it when we think about what you know better depending on what you want to say yeah okay yeah but of course these two items interact closely um so if uh nobody has a problem with that and then let me go into the car conf part um so call conf is for documents one one is an RFC uh one it is in isg and and has had a discuss for uh one and a half years now uh one has passed working with last call uh but there are some some ongoing discussions and we want to make sure that when we ship it it actually is up to date with the changes that the first two documents uh took in the isg process and finally we have the Yang Library document that has a bit of a problem in that the the people who really need this haven't recently contributed much uh to it so yeah but that that will not be the subject today let's first finish the first three so that that's the context on call Sid we have a discuss which uh was uh from July but not July this year but yeah last year um so this was on on version 16 of the document the remaining uh main issue in that discuss was that we wanted to document the objectives of the Sid management better so so the the reader"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "doesn't have to guess this uh from from the mechanism we describe but actually gets uh the objectives in a clear statement um Dash 19 which is from July this year addressed this at least I think um this is pull request 146. um I was going to merge this right after uh we got feedback on that which hasn't happened yet and I have not been very successful in in talking to Rob about that I met him at iitf 115 but uh we actually didn't manage to set up an actual meeting about that so this is one item where we are essentially waiting for Rob's input but that of course doesn't mean that we cannot have input from the working group um on this as well uh so please read that section that new section in dash 19. um and uh the the other thing that came up is uh that in the workflow when you have a sid file that is already merged from a stable and an unstable input so let's say you have a published RFC uh you have a pretty stable draft it's not yet stable in the Sid file sense but it it's nearing completion and then you start adding two two or three more further items uh you have the situation where you have a set fire that uh comes from the Stables source of the the old published RFC the unstable source of the current Internet draft and you want to use that as input to a further set generation from the current Yang module and that's not something that that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "currently supported by by peaking and so far the workflow is based on on the the idea that a whole file is either stable and unstable and that obviously doesn't work in in the specific uh use case that I just mentioned so uh we came up with a stable field which can be true or false defaults to True which is a bit weird but yeah that happens when you introduce a new field late in the process then the the old meaning has to be the the default um and um yeah before we really can push this we probably need to find someone who can support this npn uh so that that's another open flank we have right now at what uh I mean this is Trivial enough that that we we are probably going to get this right uh without implementation uh support but uh it's certainly better to to have it uh supported uh before we um actually um complete this this document so the the whole set of changes um is probably large enough uh that we will want to do a second working last call on this um that's not for me to decide that's for the the other chance to decide uh but that would be my my guess what what the chairs will decide so we will go through the whole process once more uh but I think that that's a reasonable thing to do if we think this can be done reasonably fast so just one one more slide here um with the addition to the Sid file so this is a new Leaf um and uh which you put into the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "description of a specific Sid uh or the data for a specifics it and this is an numeration that inside a stable or unstable uh with radius 0 and video one and the default is stable so that's the the status of Sid we just immediately before the meeting said we wanted to have a a design team meeting to discuss any further questions uh particularly about workflows I mean this requirement for a stable field that came up when we were discussing workflows and we lost Francesca apparently ah yeah media streams don't always work with mid Eco I don't know why anyway so this is uh uh what what we have uh uh done or nearly done and we probably need another editorial around after the latest changes so for instance we swapped out uh Yang data and and put in uh SX structure instead but there are still some remnants of gang data and and references to uh the the netconf draft that are no longer needed at this point and uh there's the usual uh checking you need uh when you you work on a young module you have to look at the potential uh changes that need to be made and and there needs to be a new date in there and we have to check whether the author said is still right and uh one other thing that we probably want to do is do another review against the comma uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "requirements so this is uh the the plan um I think that the the um um oops that is called my um I think that what we need to do is pretty clear we are waiting for this one elephant which is the discuss and uh it would be good to clear this discuss before we uh go into another round um of last calling any comments on that you mentioned a possible new working group was called I wonder if this requires also a new ITF that's called I don't know yes so we would really go two steps back uh right but again that's for the working of just to decide whether the changes are heavy enough that we should do that um so my reading is we we do have some changes here and uh that's the the that might be the appropriate thing to do okay and there should be one revision more hopefully the next revision should be the one yes okay Francesca is asking in the chat if we need her to get to Rob uh apparently uh so uh I I have I don't have like uh talking to him so uh I think he hasn't looked at zulub for two weeks and uh he didn't get apparently didn't get my my email uh so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "yeah little nudge would be nice yeah I I think we need a new IC review I agree with that so it's just a new full cycle yeah it's um tedious I mean we can try to to to just slip by all this if Rob agrees with that then I would be willing to to confide in doing something like that um when did I sent him the email check that well the last one was yesterday at uh 2 P.M I think I I sent a few before I just don't find them of course in my my chaos yeah but the last one was yesterday and I mean this this really wasn't a surprise for him because we had discussed this at iitf 115 so uh okay any more questions about this so if it goes smoothly with the design team meeting and everything we may have the new Revision in January yes well the teletrad is on the 15th right thank you yeah I think so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:08",
    "text": "oh there is informal one tomorrow okay great okay so I think with that we can have a quick look at comai um the Kumai document is up next and uh we we were waiting for for Yang sibo to to get done before we did the Finish finishing touches on coma and there's some editorial stuff to be done again um and there is one technical issue which is the K uh query parameter so normally when you do commai you would use when you do comma with Co-op you would use the fetch method uh so you can specify exactly what the parameters for for the operation are but there is also a get version of that and that of course requires representing all kinds of information in the uh your eye and now why doesn't this Advance the slide oh it does um so uh of course there are a number of young data types and what coma currently does is it defines its own representation of these Yang data types which sometimes use the the Yang sibo representation but sometimes also are different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "and um we found that that this was sometimes well first of all it's just complexity because you suddenly have to have two different representations of the same information but it's also surprising for instance that when you go from from an unsigned integer to a signed integer uh the representation changes completely so the unsigned representation is the decimal number let's find a representation is a base64 encoded sibo encoded number so it looks completely different um and um yeah there are even some some small uh editorial problems here uh decimal 64 the entry has to be written differently but that can be easily fixed the problem really is that um this is all different and uh in in most constrained applications uh you are not running the gamut of of these 11 different uh classes of young data type so this this is just a lot of effort you have to do for for supporting uh get which you probably don't really want to support anyway because you really really want to work with fetch um so what we came up with when we discussed this at the the hackathon and the itf-115 hackathon um is to to always use URL save basically file of the sibo of the encoded uh c bar uh the representation of of the key this has the advantage that it's uniform this has the disadvantage that there are certain cases when this is longer there are also cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "when this is shorter so a decimal representation of a larger number will always be longer than a base64 representation of the same number um so um yeah this this trades uh complexity against uh yeah maybe the occasional additional bite being used in a query parameter but again if you really care about this use Fetch and then don't use okay so the the solution is is uh pretty clear but if if there is a good reason to use git uh you might be spending a bite or two uh more the the one place that is uh probably most frequent for many applications is the string case and here as you can see from from the table the text string case um the the old coma representation is particularly efficient uh because you can just put the the actual value at least if that doesn't contain an ampers enzyme which contains an FS enzyme then you have to uh do something about that um and uh well that's in the UI and they actually Co-op you you don't have to to cope with it um so uh that's maybe one thing that we uh yeah has a comment uh to to uh that that describes this in modern here let's uh do the exact wording for the thing offline I'm just trying to give a high level uh view here so for for the frequent case that that we have a string"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "um we might want to make a special a case out of that I'm not sure that it's worth doing that but uh it's at least so if people really care about the the texturing uh case uh we could do that so we would uh reduce the 11 cases to two instead of one which I think is still okay so I don't know if anybody in this meeting has an opinion um on that but that's definitely something we would need to discuss but of course the the bigger question is do we want to make a relatively large uh change here to to simplify uh things I'm always a big fan of simplifying things while I still can simplify it but of course if if there are large uh existing installations that use this mechanism that would be a little bit unfortunate so we want to to do something on the mailing list that alerts people to that change being discussed so cool I don't know if you want to say something about your Implement implementers point of view about this okay this works now you can hear it guys yeah um so from um yeah iPhone working implementation and implementing both get and fetch as described like to get as described with the different uh encodings currently in the draft um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "I have to admit that the different encoding is mostly complexity but in terms of code size the different encodings doesn't really matter that much uh digging my own grave hair in terms of the proposed change um I would say it's mostly like getting this consistent there was also the edge case crushed and pointed out that he had got told that if there is like this is I think currently a common comma separated string with different K parents if there's a comma in your uh string key then the whole encoding breaks um but yeah not much more to add here I think I would say going with the or else safe basics for encounter c bar of everything is the safe way to go um okay so I think we we at least have in-room consensus for moving forward in that direction and the actual change still has to be made into a pull request and when we have that pull request we can discuss it on the list great so let me just quickly talk about two documents one is the target attributes which we uh adopted as a working group document and I don't think there's really that much to be done there but uh we probably want to do a dash or one uh where we update the pre-fill tables or what is already registered in the document and and not by later experts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "they're suggesting an expert action and action so that that should be obvious what we want to do there and one issue came up would it be useful to limit the length of the names of these Target attributes so Thomas facade asked whether we maybe want to go with a limit like 16 or 32 that can sometimes make uh make it easier for implementations to handle these things so unless there is a knee direct reaction here we can discuss this in the GitHub issue okay and once we have Dash or one uh I think we want to go for working with Glasgow Yes sounds good and I think having a thing from the length is a good idea overall not sure about the exact number but we should have something okay so we can all take out our Dice and and find the number 42 might be a good image indeed okay and uh last slide um in 2018 I think I wrote this Corrections and clarifications uh draft I actually had pretty much empty house for that um and uh you know we I think we we have repeatedly found out we want to revive um that the GitHub repository is there so if you want to look at recent activity where recent is defined in the last four years um you you can look there um so One Direction that I think we we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "understand is that we want to have more text about errata because router reports are always a little bit um tell us and it's also hard to to add additional explanation to a router reports that that have been accepted so I uh it's it may be good to have something and pull request 26 um is an example for for such a um Errata report uh being explained in a little bit more more detail and we probably would want to do this with all the rata that that are out there so people can look us up in in more detail so this would be on the explanation side then we have two other sources of wisdom that we could make use of one is the coab fact frequently ask questions um and uh there's a link in the chat that contains good stuff that currently is just numbered questions but we probably could sort it in into clarifications and explanations and so on and then of course there there is a pretty uh decent every Co-op document that just isn't complete so we we never uh decided to finish it but what's there is already pretty good and we probably should think about what what to do with this document we just reference the the expired internet draft from Corrections and clarifications um or do we actually pull in text uh from there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "um I think I'm going to make a pull request for for that shows how pulling up pulling in the FAQ might look like um of course the the FAQ is uh um also useful because it is a Wiki document and people can just contribute to that with low effort so we have to uh uh balance here between wanting to have something like a consensus working group a view of of the answer to the question which is really more going into the curricula uh document and just having a random Wiki somewhere on on the web uh that that is like stake overflow uh useful but may not be right and that brings up the question of what what is actually going to be the intended centers of this document um is this a standards uh Wi-Fi ITF oh yeah uh Wiki we have a IDF Wiki yes uh so we could use that uh it it has um it has this problem that essentially gives the keys to the kingdom to the working group chairs but the chairs may not be the ones who actually want to run this process um so I'm I'm not necessarily very convinced that uh this is exactly the way we want to run this so Random GitHub um well that's at least in the car working group organization um may be a better way to run this than than using Wiki iotfog okay but but that's the Spectrum on which we will need to balance things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "um so uh I wanted to bring up my last Point here which is what is the intended status of this document um of course if if we ever want to adopt this as a working group document then we should uh at least at that point make up our mind about that we can of course always change that um so there are likely to be some standard strike elements in that uh documents or the actual Corrections uh which would need it to be based on a strong consensus and there will be informational Parts in the document uh so uh things like how do I do eggs and the answer maybe don't do eggs and uh this is uh certainly not not standard striking content but informational uh content and it might be a little bit opinionated so it might not have the same strong consensus that that the corrections we are making uh have and uh yeah from a process point of view it's nice to not have to decide uh whether we have a standard strike or an informational resolution at the time where we work on this item uh but uh yeah from from a document point of view this would need to be clearly separated right now there is a section two and a Section 3 in the draft that have a similar uh difference between them and um yeah maybe we can can put those into an appendix the information reports into an appendix to make it more obvious that uh this is not the Senate strike part of the document so you hear me leaning towards putting both into the same document but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "I don't have a strong opinion on that and that would be good to hear from others foreign so Corrections would be actual fixes that update the protocol in a sense right and affect implementations yeah that sounds like it is a standard strike I think at least for that part yeah so if you look in this pull request 26 um there is a sentence that is missing there which is the the CT Target attributes cannot be repeated cannot be used multiple times and the correction is that that we Supply this missing sentence which the rata report already does but of course it's much better to have a true true update document update in in the form of um Corrections document for that because the explanation can be in more detailed the informational part would be the clarifications of corclair yeah I'm not so sure whether these are clarifications which really are essentially editorial Corrections where the the text isn't clear enough while it is clear what the work group was intending there it may not be clear to to a reader that has not been part of the discussion so that's that's different from a correction where we actually uh something that that is missing or even misstated in the document so what one correction for instance would be the The Columns of the content format registration uh which payload and the payload as uh part of the kashki yes for example yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "that that sounds really standard struck uh related yeah well for me that is the clarification but uh yeah but basically if there are already points Beyond explanations and pure information that moves to standard struck overall I think is document status and of course you need strong consensus but you are entering that territory okay so that's all I had and by the way in having the the informational content into the appendix perhaps some of it the the most opinionated let's say if it's pretty smooth and uncontroversial why not keep it in the document body bits an important uh informational explanation to highlight yeah so for instance we had a router report which needs to rejected um where somebody complained that we are not describing how the message number space is supposed to be managed and that is certainly something that the the document leaves open on purpose and uh where we have additional sources like the every Co-op discussion that can be used in coming up with a good implementation uh strategy so this this would be an explanation uh and even the recommendation a weak recommendation of certain strategies or maybe an exposition of strategies"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "that that have not run into opposition uh yeah I think there's a wide spectrum there okay an actual draft was never posted right it has always been a GitHub prep or am I wrong no no there's actually a draft moment from 2018. okay but we probably want to do a dish or one before we adopt this of course and yeah yeah in the next gender idea we will produce additional material for that so it's mostly about how to take things from the sources of wisdom the dimension what to pick that is really relevant to pick and how to transfer it really yeah maybe we even want to write something in the document what were our guidelines for for doing this document yeah content selection to be to be included basically I can imagine as Next Step sounds good which kind of smoothly brings us to the Errata resolution and yeah the core Cloud document would be a way to address the Errata that are the site to behold for an update basically yeah okay I I don't think you have a slides for that but uh it boils down again to the same mail that Francesca sent um a few weeks ago and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "I may soon share my screen again let's see okay now you should see the list and yeah and we got some input uh today that you can find on the on the notes and then the mail from Esco I noticed so that well in particular some input from clouds I think right so we can go through them one by one uh looks like 48.95 it is fine for close here and in general there were no objections there was the qualification from Esco I think uh yeah to behold for document update then there were the the two Errata that were filed basically um together by uh by Klaus about uh mentioning explicitly the fragment component of the URI for the co-op and Coopers scheme separately so that was initially proposed as as verified and and causes nothing that there used to be an Errata for for HTTP that does exactly the opposite and in fact if you check RFC 9110 which is updating that I see that rather referred to um yeah you don't have uh the fragment component mentioned and the mail from Esco today will further build on that uh if I understand let's go correctly uh saying that they'll introduce confusion uh basically introducing the fragment component we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "introduce confusion uh in in the light of this comments that yeah it makes sense to me would be the best thing to do basically uh rejecting the Errata that by the way calls himself proposed yes but uh I remember what happened so Klaus found this this there is a problem there and Klaus found it and wrote it up but then we learned that that HTTP actually had the same problem and people fixed it in the other direction and uh we probably shouldn't be doing something that is different from HTTP for yeah you may not like the way this has been solved in HTTP but it's kind of the the received interpretation of your eyes so um so last call is on Francesca I guess but this is pointing to uh rejecting the rat actually 49 46 and 49 47. foreign I don't know at the sentence that further clarifies why things are the way they are yeah uh and that's it yeah so really this should be hold for document update uh because it's one of those places where we have to have more discussion to actually correctly address uh the report and the the uh distort point with the document where we do this yeah which will be called again yes okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "well good uh okay then 49 48 um looks good too close to he has a note though that this is a substantial protocol change yes that that's what we were discussing um before and I believe it can be one point that warrants the standard struck status to core class for example but um so again it's a clarification for me uh because that was always what we intended uh but yeah the text doesn't currently reveal that this is what we intended so it's it's a bit borderline about a whole product update and and verified but probably verified is better so that this is out and clarified as soon as possible through the Errata process I don't know if this is an orthodox [Laughter] maybe it deserves to be taken as verified anyway even though it will come back yeah that's 100 okay okay so we we take this as verified I think um 49 49 was fine um 49 54 this was about oh right The Columns of the Registries and yeah clouds on again on its own uh raised the rata as as a comment and yeah I think this latest comment um is correct if you want to express both the media type and the parameter in the content type column so it took us up to RFC 9193 do you agree on the actual terminology we want to use here and now we we have written it down and we should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "use it so so it tells us right I mean the alternative would be having a media type colon and the parameter column to be added but this is this is better yeah this is really complicated because most registrations will not have a parameter so this yeah but basically what's the outcome about um handling this Errata should it be rejected because it needs to be edited at the very least right to to be verified I mean right right now it's not saying what they should say in the first place so it can be rejected um and we know that this will be fixed in complex for example or edited and then hold for dock update right yeah I don't know whether the Roger process allows the reviewer the verifier to actually change the proposed solution which would be a very obvious thing to do in most cases but I don't know if the process does this so maybe Francesca knows she believes she can change that yeah then we should just change media type in the content type and so this would be about um editing the current rata and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "take it as all for document update no then it's very fun already okay okay that was also pending a pending Point by the way but just foreign sorry 49.54 okay then yeah that one okay so to be edited and then verified yes okay that's important because it would allow Ayanna to actually fix the the actual registry so if we do hold for document update then we have to wait for for some document will finally make that change and then we should check with the help of the fixed registry and any other document that did any registration considering the current wrong columns and probably file a rata for those documents or leave corclair update those documents too I would update it in Google there's no no possibility but yeah yeah whatever creates less overhead and mess and work for for the ad for example okay but one step at a time uh so 50 78 should be good and then we should double check again instead 52 54. so that's about 66.90 actually link format"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "and it was a proposal that I do remember in detail but it was about um yeah updating the the format um and and the semantics of links to rule out um a variant that was very error prone with um strange Uris a yeah so the proposal originally was to reject it because it was changing format basically as it was intended and that made sense to me today though we got a comment from House number four so I I can agree it is a concern and the fix looks like it works but um isn't it actually uh changing the intent and the grid intent of 66.90 this looks something to be fixed with an update to 66.90 right yeah so we would invalidate all those cases where people have uh used an HTTP URI that is innocuous uh from the point of view of the link common syntax without codes and I think that would be a change I think it would be a change for the better but it would still change so in case it is something for the document updated link format but yeah it feels like it goes beyond the scope of an Errata as I understand the Errata process to work so that that's the the the real problem is is much deeper the real problem is that um the the a b and F"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "tells you the syntax of of The Interchange thing but it doesn't tell you what meaning you actually derive from from that and it's the meaning that you derive from that that then again requires a syntax and that's what 8288 did so the syntax they have is is the ABN F Productions they have are mostly not about the interchanged uh data but about what the the decoding process of The Interchange data derives and then you have ABN F that tells you what that can be and uh we we would kind of move away from this again uh by saying even the simplest HTTP Uris need to be quoted um and uh this would move quoting again from something you you just do because this index otherwise wouldn't work lexically to something that has weird semantic consequences and I'm I'm against that direction yeah and bottom line the outcome in 66.90 was not in that direction anyway right it'd be really a change of Direction not a well 6690 is kind of inconsistent because it does rewire quoted Syntax for for a couple cases um which is uh not the right thing to do but it's it's exactly this uh dual dual layer ABN F issue that we have in so many other places uh so let me try to find where that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "yeah so for instance the anchor um always has to use quotes and I think that's a bug but it's not a bug that we probably want to fix at this point okay so Francesca is the final call but looks like we should keep rejecting it as originally suggested I'm sorry if I move backwards to previous Errata we checked before the the pair 4946 and 49 47 this is to be a contradiction in the statements in line 119 and 120 um so I think the conclusion was to do a rejection and then let corclair do the work but the note on Carson says and helpful document update instead which is which then I remove that if that's not an accurate statement so there will be a document update from core Club but formally to process the Errata I think it was simpler to reject the ratan yeah I agree clarifications will come in corclair anyway okay good so just double checking uh all is clear for the controversial ones so this one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "this one uh edited them verified and this one yeah yeah okay uh we have one more to check 5284 and the original proposal was verified I think it was about the the meaning and the scope of a co-op talking given a pair of endpoints per request and it was from from mad proposing to explicitly add the per request to the sentence um if I understand Klaus comment correctly uh is arguing that um you don't need to restate that the token is already per request given given a pair of endpoints so it's a not useful repetition I have a much deeper problem here in that saying something is unique doesn't mean anything until you actually say within with which domain it is unique so you think the The Source destination and point pair is not as sufficiently well defined domain well foreign with the term unique and it doesn't get better by adding per request uh to to that sentence um so I I probably can guess what the sentence is trying to say uh without that Edition but with that Edition I'm I'm completely let me display sentences by the way there we go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "yeah yeah unique was used already in the original text anyway yes yeah but again I I don't have I can find out what is meant here but if you add per request I no longer can do that uh Francesca is wondering for um Klaus may there's no mail from Klaus Francesca um this table just appeared a few hours ago in the notes and well it's pretty comprehensive I I think it was good material but no mail right but Carson if you understand your point anyway uh the addition from Med is not really clarifying anything yeah it's muddying the water for me oh okay okay um so putting together class input and yours that makes it a rejected yeah basically and and um if we want to clarify that sentence anyway uh that can also happen incorporary later on yes yes okay uh okay then 5284 if it's fine to Francesca can be rejected too okay Francesca left anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "um foreign I'll try to build up in these minutes a summary for Francesca to consider as final input from from the group but those were clouds said okay are confirmed basically and then in these detail notes we took decision on on the other ones um is there any other thought about those that we haven't checked meaning 48.95 uh 49.49 and 54.29 looks like no then we we have a plan I believe Francesca will do yet another sanity check before proceeding and this is also one more source of wisdom for korkor yeah so 4949 is is very very obviously true so yeah for nine for nine what was that that was about uh sending an error response to a response that's not possible of course right cool uh okay if there are another comments on the Arata resolution we have covered this um is there any other particular topic you want to discuss for today and I can move back to matego uh even though well we are done for for today at this interim not really for this year uh but we are going to resume regularly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "within three meetings on on January 18th uh same pattern Wednesdays on odd weeks um at the same time I think we should have five interims um before ITF 116. anything else you want to race day well you know uh it comes soon when it comes enjoy the Christmas season I enjoy the holidays indeed talk to you soon thank you very much thank you bye-bye thank you for the minutes no problem bye-bye bye"
  }
]
