[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:31",
    "text": "yeah I always wonder how the people who don\u0027t have a PhD in engineering okay so yeah this time of the week I probably don\u0027t have to do this very much please note the note well well it\u0027s what Barry would say at this point and we have a pretty packed agenda any changes to the agenda except that we are troops that we also have a little bit of spillover from Monday which we were sat first but before we do that I have a little announcement before that we sa need no takers yes you asked no takers well we have our default note taker and yeah so it\u0027s the best adventures to do it with either pet only questions about ten times for all but you can take great notes in the rest of the time okay so the announcement I wanted to make senator is in off for the Aged since today so we already know the earth cinema and we just have to finish the off for the eight which is difficult when most people on vacation but think somehow we will do that in the next 48 hours I\u0027m sure that\u0027s 148 or forty-eight means okay the other announcement that we were asked to make is we have been doing interactors to interrupt testing as a working group a lot until about 2013 when correct became stable and and it has been approved and now there are various organizations doing that and one very interesting organization is Interop which is an EU financed project and they are trying to build interrupt testing environments that actually already know that there is something called the internet so they build environments where you can do intro class testing over the internet this is relatively easy for application layer protocols they but they actually do it down to the radio layer by shipping golden devices around that that can be used for that interesting so everything else goes over the internet but you also need this Gordon device to make it change well but we don\u0027t need that so for interrupt placing please have a look at this side and you have to be a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:34",
    "text": "little bit patient it is an EU project so yeah sometimes the presentation is a little bit dry but there is interesting stuff happening there okay should we anyone from the Dutch people here Owens here good okay so mean we actually do this one first and then jump back to the cinema part so the reason I have asked the dots people too you can come to the front I just talked boy you come to the front the reason we have asked the dog favorite to say something is because they are actually a customer of collab and they are an unconventional customer because they are not interested in light pipes yeah and thank you for talking me agenda and I\u0027m only gonna take a couple of minutes we don\u0027t really have time for a kind of technical discussion but I really came here asking for help our Co a protocol document is going is going to be starting second working group last call so we\u0027re getting close to the end and we could take a look at your expert review given your expertise with that so the the dots working group is in the security area and I only actually have two slides so I would first point you to the top to orient you on our use case what we are primarily trying to do is standardize the signaling associated with denial of service mitigation and it\u0027s a fairly kind of simple thing we\u0027re trying to do which is we want to standardize the communication of someone that\u0027s under attack asking someone else to help them do the mitigation so it was dot in this diagram walk and point a little bit you know there is some victim that\u0027s getting attacked and then architectural II maybe it\u0027s an upstream provider maybe it\u0027s some some cloud packet scrubbing service is going to be able to do some mitigation and then there\u0027s the opportunity to do that transitively and so we have created this notion of a dots client and a dot server and they can be combined architectural II to be a dots gateway which is just the back to back and the dots flying is the thing that asks a dot server for help the and add a scope is how the actual infrastructure how the actual infrastructure communicates with a client but practically this is a switch this may be a specialized device this may be an application server a load balancer or whatnot and then it asks a dot server which again it could be any kind of network infrastructure and and then that dot server communicates with the the piece of the infrastructure that can actually do the mitigation but how it actually does the tasking to kind of rate limit or to do blocking again is out of scope it\u0027s really just the communication of saying hey I\u0027m under attack the server says got it I\u0027m gonna do something about it the clients saying hey I\u0027m still under attack the server says yeah I\u0027m trying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:35",
    "text": "to do something about it the clients saying hey please stop I think I\u0027m good or the server saying hey I\u0027m not seeing that attack anymore are you good can I stop and so to facilitate that that communication we have developed two protocols there is a signal channel and then there is a data channel so let me first start with the data channel in this workflow that I described up here there\u0027s a concept of there is peacetime and then there is time under attack so the peacetime is when the victim is not being attacked and the attack time is when the victim is experiencing a denial service attack so the data channel built over s cough is really the communication between the client and the server to do various kind of provisioning again this is this is envisioned to be done at peacetime and then under attack circumstances there is the signal channel which is the co-op protocol that I\u0027d love your review on which is used to kind of signal hey the attack has kind of started please stop the mitigation into exchange that information about what is occurring all right makes sense any quick questions about that setup okay so I would point you to and I have a list of references to the the dot signal channel we are about to start working group last call this coming Monday we\u0027re gonna open it for kind of two weeks and we would love your eyes on that particular kind of draft I have various section numbers that point to various properties of how we have configured kind of that configured co-op and that communication what drew us to co-op initially was we expected packet loss no surprise under that attack we wanted gone confirmable messages we wanted small messages efficient message sizes we use kind of examples of some of the methods that we used here we have heartbeat kinds of things built in to the protocol because again we expect it\u0027s are going to lose a lot of traffic and here are some of the other properties that that fair person is an introduction okay so I welcome you to please take a look at it as our coop kind of experts and the draft you want to take a look at is dot signal channel and we will start a working group last call on Monday I\u0027ll send a mile sent a pointer to the man list spare and please track me down if you have any individual questions about this I appreciate your time here thanks so much so who would be interested to actually have a look at this Dave bill climber it was just raising his hand anyway okay good I very much appreciate it thank thank you so let\u0027s I touched it so let\u0027s get back to the rest of the agenda okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:46",
    "text": "now with cinnamon in practice done of course it\u0027s time to extend it but this work actually has been ongoing already quite some time or it\u0027s not only in the home a spec works and we all represent the district first time at the London IETF but what has changed since last time is that we are now reusing the base 10 ml media types so the original version was proposing the register new media types to be used with touch and fetch but it turned out that that is actually not necessary we can just define new semantics for the same media types I would still get the same functionality of being able to update and fetch parts of a Sentinel document efficiently the world conceived a feature we left out as discussed in the London meeting that was maybe honestly complex before the kind of gains that you are getting with that and it\u0027s always nicer to have a simple document one comment we got relatively recently is that eyepatch is actually our most of time there better way of using patch the item voted person of so now the government is focusing throughout the text on iPads and just mentions that the same semantics also work with a batch method we also update security considerations so there is a risk with veteran paths that single fetch and batch operation may impact multiple resources and if multiple resources have an access code rules of course you have to take the aggregate of their operation into account when you are evaluating those so that\u0027s not explicit in the security considerations finally it was discussed if we need operation codes for patching and in particular it\u0027s simple to do replacing and adding but if also like appending and deleting operations or or needed so for that we do think about it quite a quite a bit and it seems that we can actually get away without operation codes so a lot of the logic is still similar as it used to be but we had a bit more text on what it means to appending new record store to a patch and how you can potentially delete records from a patch so how it works now is that when you do an ad you do a patch operation with a sentimental record that has a name that doesn\u0027t exist in them in the pack originally then it means you are adding a new record also there was the current text has says maybe gives a bit wrong in press the time is always required we\u0027re gonna be updating that text shortly then append operation so if you have multiple records with the same name if you put there a different time than what exists in any of the existing records this will then become an append operation replace works just like it used to be but now we verify that you match the name if the past record has a name if I had to say another record on the target pack with the same name as a replace operation or if your if your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:46",
    "text": "patch record has a name and time both of them need to match on the target pack and then it becomes a replace operation so those are actually were already in the previous version but now it\u0027s clarified how they are exactly working a new feature in this person is this delete operation it\u0027s using the same rules for matching so the name or or the name and find me to match but you set the value to no and that means that you want to delete a record from a pack because the cinema base RFC doesn\u0027t allow null values it should be a safe way of using it a few consideration on this mechanism are the good thing is that seems that we don\u0027t need the operation codes so what we\u0027re considering or it\u0027s not that we would reserve one field for future acceleration codes now it seems that it\u0027s not necessary to even reserve that one field for it and if you later feel that okay maybe we need some more extensions well we can always define a new media type that is very similar at this media type and has potentially this operation so we still do have an extension point if we really need it one down side of this way of patching is that you cannot add time to an existing record with a single patch operation so if you have a record without time you just cannot put their time because now it becomes an append however you can delete that record and put the record or replace the whole pack so it just you need to do two operations instead of one but this seems like a reasonable trade of adding time the nexus record seems that the corner case and a few more to be done so clarifying the batch operations that I mentioned is that the time is not needed always in a packet if it matches it all over without and then there was one comment that it\u0027s bit confusing that effects and batch record terms are written all caps so whilst make them not all caps and it\u0027s more clear we are not referring to the method because the same facts and phase record work with both pads and iPads methods but with that we believe it\u0027s ready for production questions or comments so who has read a version of this document three four I think aria is ready to a my answer who would be willing to provide a review three good and who thinks this is something this working group shot to after we have now finished cinema all the same people all the time who things we should not be doing this Peter is trying to control himself to not raise his end okay okay so of course we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:49",
    "text": "will verify this on the list but I\u0027m seeing some interest here and let\u0027s see whether we get those reviews and we get one out who then maybe we can do the the formal adoption excellent thank you next I have two slides that I will try to do really quickly or do you want to do them so we did something maybe not so bright when we did the IANA considerations for first anime or maybe the the fact that we try to cater for EXCI was not so bright anyway each time a new fear is added new field name is added to senem the XML schema needs to be changed and the the changed XML schema needs to get a new name the schema in the document is called a and maybe the next one will be called B and the idea is that an exit document can reference the schema by name at the start because changing the schema means some of the serialization properties change so you have to know what schema actually has been used for for encoding or something now the problem is that most registrants of field names don\u0027t care for exit so they don\u0027t have an expert who would be able to update that XML schema and it already happened lightweight m2m registered VL oh and of course they didn\u0027t care about the the schema so what the draft says is you don\u0027t have to update the schema you keep it blank and when finally a registry of Haris friend comes along that does a new feared and cares about actually they can do as EEMA that does all the existing new fields and yeah and and registers a new version for the schema which what we\u0027d be together with definitely there is a slight weirdness because that right now don\u0027t really have a place where we can record that schema the IANA registration process doesn\u0027t have a conventional place to keep updated documents like that so the reason we are saying this is that right after cinema was approved of course like whatever came along and said we want this new field and we started to scratch our heads because they didn\u0027t understand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:49",
    "text": "the procedure either and did something something was wrong I think they wrote B in the registration and and didn\u0027t provide a schema or something like that that\u0027s all yeah we probably don\u0027t want to try to fix this in all 48 but I think we still have to think a little bit about how we handle this Jim Jim shot this one step that I would like to be able to see in here which is you shouldn\u0027t have to actually register a new field in order to actually register the schema because if you put if you put the ten things in there and I come along and I want the schema I should be able to do that Road so that\u0027s a bug in the procedure Alyssa so considering the document is enough 48 as of today do you actually want to publish existing XE media types or do you want to remove it from the document and just move it to a separate document so don\u0027t publish it in the current one they just I don\u0027t remember the length I\u0027m just offering you an option it is a change in all 48 yes we can just double check it on the manual base but what\u0027s the best thing going forward with all I\u0027d say I sure know what my answer to this question would be but I think the working group might have a different mind okay how do you want to find out what\u0027s working with us today let\u0027s keep the document a certain public safe place it\u0027s not really a block it\u0027s just how we\u0027re not do the procedure who needs to do what work I mean this does not need to update the document per se if we do this it\u0027s more like how do we arrange the expert registry so maybe it\u0027s mostly a matter of creating awareness so all players know that and we know that when somebody approaches us and says I want to do a new sentimental tag we not just say that\u0027s easy but we also say do you need XE to find out whether they need to exercise the second half or not so maybe that\u0027s all that that\u0027s actually needed but librarian terms screwed this up slightly and I think is there a change request or like ladyandtramp or was it published with this slut mistake in it and again yeah and by what I\u0027m screwing WI was me screwing it up actually so it was a wasn\u0027t didn\u0027t quite realize how much work it is register EXI schema but yes so the latest approved person should not have that in place so the requests "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:49",
    "text": "coming towards IANA will not request any access key if everything went as planned okay so I still have an appointment with Michelle to make maybe we can find a place to actually install this schema somewhere Diana yes or it could be a core wiki or something yeah but yeah a place for the latest schema but all the schemas to be stored somewhere accessible but I don\u0027t think we need to change the RFC to be I can ask ignorant question because this is the first time I\u0027ve seen it so I\u0027m still trying to process it will you need new media type for EXCI stuff or is it just hmm you will oh you will not if you have a new schema like this yeah actually will be in it you know the will you need new media type we have new media type so that the document registers media types yeah we have that that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying you know well you need to register another parallel set of no of them okay no no the registration of a new field name doesn\u0027t require a new media type it says the same media type but in the file in the object you have this a b c d thing so you know what it actually is so media tried was still cinema - xe+ my mind sexy micrometer maybe we discussed this and weren\u0027t too happy with something that was floating around separately from the extra document so we put this in identifier in XE as it is theater has a place for that yeah I do remember looking at it and I wasn\u0027t entirely confident about it but I didn\u0027t know enough about well I still don\u0027t know enough about taxi - all right I know we\u0027re all about exceeding I ever wanted to at this point okay so will you have some text or some draft about this describing this shortly well it just to describe what the problem statement in the document it\u0027s just the practical consequences are a little but bit more involved then then we thought we\u0027d failed on the first try but it was a communication failure it wasn\u0027t on the failure was a procedure in the draft it\u0027s just that the lightweight and people just didn\u0027t know that there was a question they to think about okay but I\u0027m still trying to figure out what the best thing about it\u0027s all about the document about 40 maybe doing nothing is fine but I I can imagine that adding one or two sentences would have a lot so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:50",
    "text": "maybe we can sit down and do these one or two sentences okay or a gerund it\u0027s gonna repeat that all these things that are in the slide are basically in the document but maybe not as clearly that it\u0027s obvious for a registration so it\u0027s not a read and procedural change maybe just clarifying what is all right there okay so that was that and I have been asked to present this hold it we have heard about the stateless forward proxy option a few times in working meetings here and as with many things when you think about it for a year or two you get a few new ideas what it actually is about and what happened is that since the document that is using this is now in workgroup lost last caller has just finished finished working on last car we were starting to think again and this thinking unfortunately has had some results but let me first explain what what the point is the point is when you have a proxy normally the proxy forwards a request to the server to the origin server and while it\u0027s waiting for the response has to keep some stage to be able to send back the response to the original flight so that\u0027s the normal operation of a proxy and the problem in the six ish minimal draft us that this guy here actually is a very constrained system so this is a jointer that wants to talk to the join authorization server whatever it\u0027s called today jrc already know what the operation means and this guy just happens to be a random right but that happens to be close to the China so we don\u0027t want to burden this light bulb with keeping that state in particular after a power failure I think we all think about powerful yesterday the situation may be that there are quite a few of these joiners coming in at the same time so you you don\u0027t have deterministic deterministic limit to the amount of state that might be needed for a very very constrained system so the idea is just will not keep the state but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:51",
    "text": "to push it forward to the server and have it returned from the server with the response and of course there are some security considerations you have to cryptographically protect it a little bit to make this happen but this is manageable so that\u0027s the basic idea and the question is what is the best way to send some state with a request that you actually get back together with a response and if you know crap the first thing that comes to mind is the token because the token has exactly that poverty ascended with your request and you get it back with a response now in 2012 when we redesigned the the way tokens are hindered we came up with a hard limit for the size of a token we wanted to make it eight bytes or less and we discussed is having a hard limit a good idea there and we couldn\u0027t come up with a use case where we would need a larger talk so that that\u0027s where we are and instead stateless proxy option was invented but it turns out this stateless proxy option has a few problems in case there are further proxies on the way so that the J as he might actually be in a wreck somewhere making a lot of noise and and this guy here might actually be a proxy that that forwards the data through to the actual J\u0027s so we had to really find this option and because we are all thinking in terms of tokens now we are calling it the second token option and it\u0027s a critical option like they\u0027re talking us and it\u0027s not safe to forward like the tokens and yeah that that works it\u0027s fine there are two tokens in a message that the one that is always used for the request response measuring and the second token and you actually have to produce a little bit of redundancy here to to make that happen so yeah just just to show how this looks like in the 60k s-- this chosen us call option just because in six days you would have an else call option but this option here is separate independent of the usage of osco this is just an example showing it in the six dash context so you would have a total of one that is up to eight bytes long and everything else that doesn\u0027t fit there would go into this token two option which would have the number 19 correct options are differentially encoded so 9 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:52",
    "text": "plus 10 is 19 and that is the information that you hope the the origin server or the next proxy sends back to you so this is this is now all not new except that it has a new option but having a new option is something that is very normal routine for however we make it easy to define new options so that\u0027s one way the other way is to experience severe Amar\u0027s about not having provided data tokens in 2013 and think about how would the designing in 2013 or 2012 have looked like and actually it\u0027s pretty obvious that we would have designed the token with the same option length mechanism that we use fortune\u0027s so this is kind of I mean if you think about it for a while this is this is the only design that makes sense so that that would be trying to repair the the mistake of limiting the talking length to age so the the problem with this of course is first of all it\u0027s a change in a place where we didn\u0027t deliberately place an extension point so implementers were not aware that this change was looming they are very aware that they have to handle new options so every type implementation has a way to handle the options but this is new stuff this has to be actually changed and that\u0027s not a problem in the sixty\u0027s environment because they have these are very constrained systems they have full control over their implementations they are not just slapping a random library on top of their stuff they really have to do this in a very tight way so then for the sixers people this works very well but if we think about this as a general thing we are doing to the co-op ecosystem we have to be a little bit more careful yeah so for instance we have to think about situations like this in the Sixers case we also have to check whether there is a random forwarding node on the way that maybe actually doesn\u0027t support extended tokens and that that\u0027s actually much more so for anybody else who is trying to use this extension because we have no way to signal the presence of this extension for options we have this critical versus elective thing and we have the four hundred four four zero zero anti and so on actually violating that the proclamation would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:52",
    "text": "also give you a four zero zero answer so it\u0027s not that much different but if itself it\u0027s doing the right thing way too late or doing something that\u0027s not quite right but is with in the the expectations that implementers might have so if we go forward with doing the right thing we would right around it update 7 2 5 2 and H 3 2 or 3 because that\u0027s the true documents that we find how our talking rose into that had our one-on-one for you to p1 for TCP for TCP we could actually put in a capability so that what we the we wouldn\u0027t have extensibility issues there because we have signaling they are but for UDP we don\u0027t have signaling and we have to think about whether we do this and also how we communicate this as a special purpose saying that\u0027s just for our 60 customers or as a general extension that we recommend the entire core ecosystem to gorilla stays together so I think this is a decent idea hesitance a good but you know there\u0027s no good way to solve our eyes and I followed everything up until slide 9 where you lost me which is the one right before though yeah that one and so here is the here I\u0027d certifying question is when you\u0027re talking about a client your intermediary needs to perform a stateful request are you assuming that this is a device that has the capability of meaning that the e client or intermediary in your role of a client that that thing has that capability theirst equal or stateless both and so what tries one and it can fall back in something if it\u0027s o but notice that the next top does not support stateful and it\u0027s happy digits it does not support stateless and it\u0027s happy to fall back and just use a state for one I keep state is that the assumption here yeah so the way this would work in practice is that an implementation would keep exactly one state one place for state so when it comes up and it prepares for being a stateful stateless forwarding proxy it tries doing the the stateless thing once it exercises the protocol machinery for status but keeps the stage to be able to handle errors so that\u0027s the part that I\u0027m a little bit more skeptical about I still think the rest of the stuff that you talked about may still be worth doing but let\u0027s take a case of an intermediary in the role of a client so and so you\u0027re saying it\u0027s not just the client an intermediary needs to if it\u0027s an intermediary then only keeping one means that there may be other ones that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:53",
    "text": "come in because you\u0027re the intermediary to come in and so that means you\u0027re gonna drop them anyway right because you\u0027re an intermediary so having a queue length of one has problems for intermediaries just like it does with say our packets yeah actually doing this without having support is not catastrophic we are these are all known for movement I would rather keep it simple and just say if a client asks for a stateless one and the whole path doesn\u0027t you get a failure you get an error yes the problem is you may have no way to care the client that you just got a failure because you if you don\u0027t have stayed how do you do this that\u0027s the portrayal of me I don\u0027t know if it so the the point is the forwarding proxy knows nothing about perfect right when it has sent this message so when it\u0027s very bad you\u0027re saying you can\u0027t afford the error because there\u0027s no order for it to be right right so I don\u0027t like this and said that my point was the slide was a little bit under specified and so I had to ask you to elaborate on what you meant the design would be regardless of all these different design approaches and stuff this may still be the least bad option no matter which way there we go there it\u0027s just I\u0027m you have to deal with the cases where you know the path changes in the middle of things and so you know meaning your next hop is it still the next hop by the time that the reply comes back and I don\u0027t know so these are forward proxies yeah so every hop is we\u0027re off of the next hop so those don\u0027t just change you know when they change they can\u0027t change you just know when they change yes okay they probably three things this this slide is very scary I don\u0027t understand why the why do you not have a red line what is the short circuited red line on proxy three why does it not also have to go to the ultimate server because the token has to go all the way to the end and come back or is he a stateful service it does go to the ultimate server but maybe this guy is already somewhere in the wreck okay maybe that guy\u0027s fake ok that\u0027s why he\u0027s okay um so second point is it seems that there\u0027s no alternative the poor client is just he\u0027s dead in the water I don\u0027t like this I um it he just can\u0027t get his message through if somebody in between is not stateful so as much as I love your your layering of the additional token in there takes up room "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:53",
    "text": "it\u0027s big it\u0027s extra stuffing the package but it works doesn\u0027t it depend it works in all cases the client puts it in there or you know they know not being an original client but they Dino the proxy the proxy puts it in their work in all cases because it\u0027s particular dot safety forward so if the next guy doesn\u0027t support the option you are existing the same situation you are in when it doesn\u0027t support the extended talk well that\u0027s what that that was my third question is you said that tokens are not safe to forward and yet you\u0027re forwarding the token in order to be stateless safety forward means safe to forward without knowing what it means that\u0027s a very short well so for proxies we have critical and elective options and originally we thought that would be all we need but the problem is that there are options that the proxy doesn\u0027t have to understand but the end has to understand and if we only have a critical bridge and set that then the first proxy who doesn\u0027t understand the option sends back an error so that\u0027s why we have a second bitch the safe to forward with which essentially means is this elective for the proxy to understand or is it pretty good for the proxy to understand right and not safe before which means it\u0027s pretty good for the proxy to also understand okay it\u0027s it\u0027s only I like your point there I don\u0027t know how to solve it but it it appears that that layering is perhaps a safer thing to do even though it takes up more bits on the wire and it\u0027s ironic because I just got off a conference call where we did the same thing we had three bits that we\u0027ve reserved and we didn\u0027t want to we wanted to extend them since 1995 and we realized there\u0027s so many implementations that were barf we decided not to extend that into embed an actual length in other words it\u0027s a fake length up there that everyone will accept it forward actual length and is embedded inside the payload which those in the know handle like this so I mean it\u0027s ironic it\u0027s a problem yeah same way so I think we have a typical cognitive dissonance problem here that we know this is the the right way to do it and we rather do it but we know that there are at least communication problems here I think in the end be the actual problems on the wire are not going to be very much different but there are communication problems that we have to explain to people that we are actually changing the structure of the four byte header little bit and allowing numbers there 9 to 15 or 9 to 14 actually that haven\u0027t been allowed before but that was the other thing though is is or do you think implementations will reject them or will they jump 13 bytes ahead and then misinterpret the rest of the pack I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:53",
    "text": "don\u0027t know whether that has been tested I mean interrupts testing it never occurs in compliance testing it would so we I don\u0027t think we we have any survey information but I know that my implementation checks it but yeah so how do we decide this so what what Klaus proposals here is to actually write this up and maybe in particular write up slide 9 because this is really confusing on the slide you have to have text explaining that and the the six which people have given us a little bit of time here to prove this because they essentially have to have the final solution before I ATF 103 so we can tinker with this a little bit but we shouldn\u0027t sit too long so yes this idea of not being able to stay brought me again not being able to recover at all is the sir is the problem it\u0027s just bothering me I\u0027m the client and I just can\u0027t get my message through because you don\u0027t support any state whatsoever that\u0027s not a that\u0027s not a degraded state that\u0027s an impossible state so my my aha perhaps is that you have one or two slots for state and if you if you can\u0027t if you if you can\u0027t do the stateless because the guy ahead of you doesn\u0027t then you start dropping stuff but maybe five minutes ten minutes go by things will recover and actually your message will get through right so that\u0027s a degraded state but it\u0027s one that ultimately works yes this seems to not work at all because I refuse to keep any state whatsoever and therefore I will never send your message yeah with the amendment to actually keep one state you know there is fall approvers of course in a sixty environment you would expect to see more than one light bulb and it\u0027s all you would just if you don\u0027t get an answer from the first one you you don\u0027t retransmit to that guy you try another one first take Taylor one other questions about this slide is there actually a case where the client needs a token larger than eight I understand the issues about the intermediary I just this is error on the client-side and I understand the intermediary case which is why I put them that one before or I just can\u0027t think of a use case for clients can you well a client might actually also be in the same situation I mean a client is has some connection to the physical world and the physical world may world may place more requests "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:55",
    "text": "on the client than the client actually can handle so the dream to be able to use in your answer hopes it sounds like your answer is when the coop client is acting as an intermediary between coop and something else and he\u0027s trying to keep her stage or be stateless with the something else which most devices doing something I mean we call them things because they\u0027re between the world and devices but not necessarily most clients right if you\u0027re a a human interface thing like a remote controlled device like your slight clicker or something like that there\u0027s no need okay you\u0027re proxying is some other protocol we\u0027re trying to keep States you have to respond to you that I understand that so when writing this up in more detail then yeah make sure that\u0027s kind of a monkey a school which I just have to think about in start equals one so if you have this constraint device that does it support co-co-co or whatever why would it start sending out multiple requests and just not able to save this state because it must to have implemented Coco or some other mechanism anyway and this is a kind of stronger device the situation is that we actually have additional clients for this but the question was will one client need this feature to send out multiple requests without being able to preserve the state and it actually is only allowed to send out multiple requests right at the different destination yeah right a good question but I think the answer is we do have this problem okay so to meet since there is sufficient sympathy for for this approach in the room that that is worth that the office actually write this up and we look at this within a limited time and I\u0027m not going to try to describe the timeline here from scratch but yeah this has to be done quickly who would be able to review who would be willing to review a draft even if it comes at an unpleasant time in August Peter Jim Dave Dave Robin okay that\u0027s at least something good so maybe that\u0027s all we can do today okay next to many responses problem that\u0027s not unrelated okay yes related problem too many requests response code for coop "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:55",
    "text": "quick recap on this so background on this issue is that the cork line can cause a server overload by doing two frequent requests we do no mechanism for a server to tell the client back of this origin came up obvious problem in the pots of broker craft but after that they found one of the other uses for it too so seems to be making sense to standardize a response code for that and HTTP already has a direct response code so it was used take some inspiration from from it so this was first presented in the previous IDF did a few changes since it and was also very good last call I think the last call and about today so the changes on the classical comments were that we had at a hint on action payload so also an error code can have a payload telling the client okay what would be the right way of accents forward we are not defining in this draft any party or payload format but just hinted even use one then there was a slightly bigger thing that whereas the original version was saying that you cannot do the same request again if you do this get this error code there\u0027s a point taken that may be also similar request should be able to be suppressed with this error code so bit more details on this slide this was originally comment from a peon on the mailing list for example if you do something like stream pattern use cases it is a draft into the party you wouldn\u0027t be actually doing the same request that is causing those subtle variations that the Reapers you arise may not be identical but they are still related and it seems to be useful that this same error code could also be used in that kind of cases of course now the challenge comes so how do you know what is same request and and and what is a similar request so since this this specification cannot define all the cases when the requests are similar we are suggesting here that could be part of application specification or potentially it could also be one of these action payloads until hit these are the okay ways to go so this original functionality that if they is the item if the request is identical is still remaining it was just extended to also cover the potential case of similar requests and that was all that was done for this craft and it was also one unfortunate type of but that\u0027s going to be fixed in the next revision okay so this is another one of those customer and used drafts because we have other people who would like to use this including other stos so we should not delay this unnecessary so yeah my question would be can we work let\u0027s call this now you did last call and it today we did do we have to look let\u0027s call it again no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:56",
    "text": "you change didn\u0027t change anything the same versus similar yeah yes it\u0027s worth having a quick look but it seems so far non-controversial so yes I\u0027ll doing one update fixing the typo but I think after that we are good to go forward come from an architectural point what happens here this is actually a message to the application that it should be nicer to the server and it\u0027s the application that also would know what similar might mean this is not something that happened that happens in the coop stack the actual reaction to this response what would happen in the application so architectural I\u0027m happy with using something that\u0027s very visible from the point of view of the co-op site the Homestake has no idea but it doesn\u0027t have to and of course I mean before we hit the publish button all reviews are very welcome like it\u0027s a very strong craft it has a couple of pages so we\u0027ll take you got two minutes to read but if there\u0027s something that it\u0027s worth clarifying it\u0027s good to verify now rather than in that with iesg discussing so in Peter Peter fantastic I\u0027m sure but they\u0027re related it\u0027s not very clear to me and how are you going to define it Phil this being table those will be in table format specifier and you leave things open for example resources part of some a collection that rock I might find how I could define it but what can saying so many things it simply fake yeah exactly and that\u0027s the point that it would beat up to the application to have that knowledge alternatively we could say that this method only applies if the request is identical that was step or each no and that\u0027s of course one way we could go forward but the dance I mean so you would not have to use this similar method at all it\u0027s only for the application where it actually makes sense and in that case the application would need to have some way of telling for example it\u0027s part of a bigger specification that okay in these cases you would also send this response code but you are right out of who the Cork\u0027s that would not be able to know it would need to have additional application layer information but that would be we cannot at least with the current mechanisms it seems we cannot in a general fashion define in this spec what is similar enough so it\u0027s better to leave it for the additional specific cases using this but here\u0027s of course the alternative is that we only keep the identical one and go forward with that but that may be unfortunate kind of restricts the use cases for this code okay so I would go if there\u0027s no big concerns go forward with is similar at least you read that description and if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:57",
    "text": "it needs clarification is clarified so to me it seems that the right way forward is for you to fix the typo and for the chairs to ship this to the is three and there is an ITF last call so if you find another problem that there is still a way to raise that so but it\u0027s leaving the working group so that that would be my proposal anybody here having a big problem with that okay wonderful so there are two more housekeeping type drafts one is about media type the content format that allows to aggregate several payloads into one including the case that you a curate zero payloads into one because you want to say you don\u0027t have anything at this point in time so this this document was adopted it replaces a number of proposals including the maybe thing and it resurrects nicely resurrects something we originally wanted to do in 2012 but at the time we didn\u0027t really have sea ball widely available so we couldn\u0027t do that so is it time for working-class Collier any objections to learning to work in close call that\u0027s not my decision then its finest decisions or talk to him about that again Peter I\u0027m still very much in favor of working group last call but there\u0027s another thing we have contact formats which I defined in HD corpus and have asked from preliminary publication which it has been don\u0027t be very grateful for that but also this one we would like to have an preliminary request for this registration also of this content form it Emma clear okay so that that\u0027s another thing you will have to ask actually I have to ask you have to read the procedure but there is a procedure and we just follow it I can send an email yeah let\u0027s follow that procedure hey good but I agree that this is the world thank you maybe maybe alexei has an opinion all to pre-record registration actually alexei will follow the procedure I think there\u0027s nothing special about that a repeating question a location of a code point for this yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:08",
    "text": "okay I just went through this for the exact same registry are you gonna ask for something is here the g55 I have no idea what the dog says what does remember if it\u0027s in 0 to 255 you don\u0027t need an early registration just ask the de if it\u0027s above chief it is 255 to something then you need an early registration it\u0027s offline but we will do whatever is needed to get Peters code so the parameters it for this to make is clear is that this working group things this will happen so we are going into word New Glasgow with the assumption the working class core will succeed if that assumption is not warranted we shouldn\u0027t ask for any location that\u0027s why I\u0027m asking that\u0027s right okay one more housekeeping rod now this is something that we have been talking about for about five years now and somehow finally someone found the time to write this up there are about 1400 media types definitely less than 2000 we have 6500 content format numbers and right now anybody who wants to use co-op with a new media type has to do all this registry stuff and the idea is to just go ahead and waste some code points and say okay all those media tribes that that theoretically can be registered that there are some for which it doesn\u0027t work it doesn\u0027t make sense because they had mandatory parameters but all other media types we just allocate content Ramat numbers for to bird pointed forward numbers so we we take away one threshold that is currently in the way of people using power and it\u0027s often actually the only pressure it\u0027s a lower threshold but it\u0027s still a Thresher so for instance the PETA wouldn\u0027t have to do haven\u0027t had to do anything for the Aquarius new thing because it would all have been pre-registered okay can you do one sentence summary what problem you\u0027re trying to address the thresher said again the thresher the problem is in the mind of the person who is trying to decide whether they should do something in coop and I\u0027ll do it in HTTP and they find they can do it in HTTP now but they have to exercise some registry they don\u0027t understand to get content right it\u0027s an extra step an extra burden for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:08",
    "text": "them yes if it\u0027s not allocated okay I see right so many of you will know this discussion because again we have been discussing this for quite some time and now the proposal is to actually do it who has seen this draft sorry buddy read it to people Wow okay the two who have read it who think who are few things this draft is ready father only the two of you have read the draft we have an opinion on it that you would like to voice out in the Mac are together and yeah I think it makes sense I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a right thing to do it sounded like a bad idea first when I heard about it but then when you read the justification in the draft I think it makes a fair point that yes it makes sense right yes Matias Kovach\u0027s so unfortunately didn\u0027t have the time to read this yet but I continuously ran in the problem that I didn\u0027t have a valid content format code point for that people were asking me people were picking really weird numbers for that because they need it and they have no clue how to get it and they are kind of two unrelated to the ITF to really know what is the procedure squatting is a very real problem mmm does anybody has a particular problem with adopting this draft all right and maybe we can do a call for working or proportion on the mailing list and check out later and please read it I have an opinion so we have quite a few agenda items and we are three minutes over our time so let me just say one thing SIBO has decided to do more insurance and I think we should follow their lead so the idea would be that we have virtually interim at approximately the first time the rules allow us we have it and move a few more things forward so I think it\u0027s not a disaster that we don\u0027t get with these things now we can pick it up in the next federal injury and we have to decide the details for that we used to have virtual interims quite a few early on and even a physical one but we haven\u0027t done this and I think with this backlog we have to start doing it again so with that small consolation for the people who have come here to present their there I\u0027m afraid whoever left to close the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:09",
    "text": "meeting so see you all in Bangkok and hopefully see you all in the virtual interim before yes come this "
  }
]