[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:20",
    "text": "Oh hello everybody welcome to the LSB our working group session this morning so we have about 90 minutes to go we have a know a reasonable agenda today we have a little bit of slack time but you know it really depends upon you know how the discussions actually go you know during the sessions itself so to kick off weights first only at miss ravier so we have a jabber scrap victor is gonna take you know the honors unless there is somebody else in the audience willing to look at the jabber thing so many volunteers then the minutes is like another moment actually glare at your screen any volunteers from idiots okay so we have like Thank You Nabil so if like two people to look in the minutes and Sony - and Nabil thank you for that so it will be an easier path if you would like to contribute feel free to actually open it up and type in you know and help typing up for the immediate service very appreciate so the next thing is the note well if you if this is the first time you see the note well this week not really sure you have been attending ITF a lot during the week either so it probably been exploring you know product or much so we generally says that you know whatever you say and do over here you know it\u0027s gonna be part of the contributions of IETF but you know and you know so if you wanna know more about it just read this thing so from the next steps perspective so where are we from the LSB our deliverables so we started about a year ago we are now on a year into our timeframe here and you know the initial game the initial plan actually was to have like you know most of the drafts and all ready for submitting as one words we\u0027re gonna discuss later on you know where we are you know at this point in time from the drafts perspective you originally it we also were planned to actually have like another interim meeting now we didn\u0027t really do that because just after the new year it was a little bit you know tricky with everybody\u0027s agenda now what same time we also need like working group alcohol on the main draft and that actually required some work so I think the interim actually was not really justified to do it at that point in time so the agenda for today we actually have four main topics from what you will see so first we\u0027re gonna be you know getting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:21",
    "text": "an update on where we are from the llv lsv perspective so what actually changed in the latest draft and some other updates then the second topic we\u0027re gonna be talking about here it\u0027s like a use case of the LSU V technology it\u0027s not really associated to what LS vr is exactly about but because it is actually a technology using LS v and because Eloise actually adopted in this working group you know it\u0027s interesting to actually have some awareness of what actually is happening there so that\u0027s gonna be like 15 minutes and I\u0027m gonna know the planets to keep it to 15 minutes and not longer then the next topic we\u0027re gonna be discussing is the synchronization with the I Triple E so I\u0027m gonna be mentioning it later on also in the working group here so we have centrally as all towards my Triple E regarding the allows UV technology and to let them know about it and the I Triple E ashes has received that well and yes sends like a response back um you know their perception of you know what actually is happening here then at the end we are going to be discussing the latest updates about the lsv our BGP SPF and K euro AC is gonna delivering the presentation that is the agenda Omar oh hi I wanna just clarify that point where Paul is this speaking those are two separate points sorry say again right there we\u0027re talking about the liaison mm-hmm you said the ASR no the pv2 proposal update Paul as the speaker those are two separate items were they\u0027re the same item so looking at the so he\u0027s gonna be discussing from from looking at the slides is going to be discussing you know the alias or response very short overview what actually is and he will also discussing what the L of the PV to technology is about correct Paul okay so any further agenda bashing or we\u0027re all happy everybody smiling you know amazing yes yeah okay but if you go back a slide I just wanted to call out that the yang model work is underway some of us have been focusing on the implementation obviously and as part of that we\u0027ve been trying to define so if there\u0027s anybody who\u0027s working also independently we\u0027re happy to work with them okay yeah because it\u0027s one of the deliverables and right now it\u0027s nope nope you know in Orange state anymore it\u0027s more like in the red state thank you this where we are from respect of the milestones and undeliverable so we have most of the work ready the young is what you know Kay you actually mentioned so it\u0027s actually in process of being created now when we started the year ago you know we\u0027re actually were not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:21",
    "text": "thinking about LSV as part of the LSB our working group but we in the meantime you know we did like a call for adoption and the work actually got adopted into this working group here so we actually have this now as a working group document because it is really you know a technology like that is you know key for link you know for our link state vector routing to behave in you know in in a correct way so another thing what happened since the last idea is we did like a working group last call for bgp SPF technology the bgp SPF draft they actually run from the 3rd to the 17th of december and a number of you know good feedback actually were received from that one and if you look into the working group list itself that has been the key discussion items actually know during and on the working you know on the working group email list itself which is a little bit you know which was good for the programs of this particular document and based upon all that feedback a new document actually has been you know progressed and we actually are processing the lsv our drafts itself from the Eloise perspective there actually was a option called on and we actually go to the topless on 24th of December another thing actually happened is during we actually were we have been contributing in creating aliens all towards the I Triple E regarding the Lea set of Ethernet because in essence we actually are fiddling with layer 2 technology here and because you know from an historical standardization perspective that has been mainly you know part of the I Triple E activities so it was required maybe requires the strong work you know it\u0027s like very actually a good thing to actually to let them know that we are working on this and that was like no misunderstanding so we shipped that one out on the 10th of January the I Triple E actually has received that and actually triggered them to reinvestigate what lldp actually is about and look into potentials ways of extending it and creating like a next revision of the technology taking into account some of the properties that technology like links that Victor actually know requires so the release the liaison response is actually on the attribute workgroup page and I think very soon will also be on the ITF site itself also so a cylinder waiting for a good time I read that response and I was thinking if we reach an impasse here couldn\u0027t we just put a 20-byte header with a multicast address in it and and terminate the discussion if and and keep the protocol intact what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:22",
    "text": "do you say if you go to an impulse we\u0027re not there yet so I know but I read it read B I read the response that\u0027s that\u0027s what the response was out of - you know there were like two elements to it and one element is like you know the name is confusing so that is the easy thing to fix the second element actually was like means like you know this layer to technology and maybe you know it would be more interesting to just extend lldp you know into the next version exactly and avoid that the industry actually has like two technologies and actually you know I think that\u0027s as I\u0027m saying it might be easier just to get an eye a local wire multicast address an IETF and put the twenty by Tanner in there Alaura thought is a quick comment the formal creation did come in yesterday yesterday night yeah just to respond to John Scudder to ACS comment I sort of had the more negative reading of the the liaison that that AC did and and whether from that you conclude that you should like do a little process workaround by slapping on a multicast header that\u0027s another question I mean I I\u0027m not sure if I had been the person who wrote that liaison if you know adding a multicast header would make me feel like okay that\u0027s fine then no problem I mean it is a technical work around but it\u0027s not a workaround for a technical problem so I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s really addresses it Randy Bush arcus and iij um just so everybody knows Paul and I collude with each other we I don\u0027t pay attention to the liaison stuff he has been very helpful in L SOE and I\u0027ve tried to help with LLB DPV too so let\u0027s not create unnecessary conflict here yes sorry John scatter today add one more thing um yeah it would actually be a perfectly fine outcome for my point of view to have one as long as it solves everyone\u0027s problems I mean that\u0027s kind of what the liaison said and you know great as long as we can have it yes I agree and actually part of the journey is that you know we have actually have you know koala volunteer to give an update on the way we are with the you know with the l-ltp p2 proposal itself and understand timelines and some of the other aspects involved so there\u0027s gonna be discussed about today also cities are key you know like a very short you know summary of what the you know the liaison was about but it\u0027s gonna be in like impulse deck also so I\u0027m gonna be skipping it you know for the moment here you know in the sake of time so that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:25",
    "text": "it from the chance no to kick it off here unless there is like any other comment then we\u0027re gonna go to the first you know slot it talked about the updates about LS or e itself by Randy yeah I Randy Borgia hi Jane orcas um I know it\u0027s crowded in here there\u0027s room down front if you need it that was a joke okay they given you some of the history this is just going to be an update you are expected to have been tracking the draft okay I just want to thank some of the people who are here John gave a number of excellent reviews Rob of course Niraj Larry Krieger back at arcus flax layer to clue in to me regularly Paul condoms been very helpful and others it\u0027s now a significantly more mature draft I think let\u0027s remember the goal here okay we\u0027re trying to do link layer topology discovery and liveness for the control plane of LS vr okay that\u0027s the goal just reminder an overview of the protocol okay it\u0027s conversation happening at layer two to push the discovery of these interfaces up to bgp SPF who then builds the topology and the address mapping etcetera okay so you\u0027ve read the draft of course so I\u0027m going to talk about what\u0027s new the first thing is surprising and you\u0027ll get to hear from it neeraja has extended it already which if you are an IETF traditionalist you know that\u0027s actually a good sign when you get surprised by somebody extending your protocol and he\u0027s using it in efore evpn discovering instead of endless arp snooping so and I needed this to get the cat pictures in okay so what are the details the new version have clearly delineated a transport layer of frames that can be used to build very large PDUs and a state machine over that transport so you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:27",
    "text": "can take Ethernet frames and build large lso EPD use okay currently at 64 octet peatones is the limit that could be raised if anybody has made for more be good to say it now before we bake 64k in neeraja is already being very piggy but I don\u0027t think you\u0027re gonna hit 64 K are you Niraj generated 64 K okay oops dolorous but they should be good enough to help support some of the configuration information as part of the discovery that would need to be carried yeah yeah so um there\u0027s duplicate frame detection at the transport layer duplicate PDU detection at the upper layer there\u0027s retransmission on time outs etc there\u0027s also a vendor extension PDU okay so you can add your flavor okay there\u0027s the explicit ACK and error the act if the e type and error code or nonzero it\u0027s an actual error tells you what the air was gives you a hint etc okay before we were looking at do we merge hello and keep alive are they both necessary the current position of the authors is yes hello is multicast so you can discover across layer 2 device okay and the hello has two types of frames one is the one that will actually transit layer 2 device the other is not okay but hellos multicast keep alive is unicast because it\u0027s actually keep alive on the link okay and you probably want very separate timers for them right you want to discover your topology maybe you\u0027re willing to put up with multi second discovery delays whereas keep alive you may want on the order of a second or less okay look at the lessons we learned in BFD okay so if anybody would like to try to adjust my attitude on merging the two I\u0027m more than willing to listen okay still open is do we add a signature to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "each PDU in other words we could very easily have cryptographically verifiable authenticity and integrity checking we had data center operators who said they wanted it when I asked what their threat model was the line went dead right so if anybody here wants to talk to me about the authenticity and integrity requirements they have I would love to hear it two-thirds of the authors have some experience in doing this kind of thing we know how we would probably add it but the customer has to say they wanted okay in a shocking thing happened to me on the way to the meeting I was brought up my mother always told me that Macs are unique in the universe well it turns out they\u0027re not as one of my friends says Cisco and I Triple E have spent the last couple decades making things complex so currently the identity of a link is the two Macs Larry Krieger has educated me that it probably needs to be two to max and the Vita and ID I would gladly accept more education on that for instance Russ has tried to tell me it\u0027s just one of the max and the VLAN ID but I think that\u0027s more of a layer 2 device and world\u0027s having links between layer 3 devices ok but there\u0027s clearly a problem here we\u0027ll go forward so John asked first state machine I\u0027m sorry John the state machine is not in the current draft Rob wrote one in Python 3 instead it\u0027s about the same length as the spec except it has more blank lines in the desc comments so wanna denotational semantics instead I know how to do that if you wanted ok and the good news though it\u0027s a predictive piece of news is that we\u0027re waiting for cares ok to open source it ok cared with their darkest again this will happen shortly right after IDF hopefully in this year huh he\u0027s my boss I take his promises with a grain of salt um but it is when you get to see it it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:37",
    "text": "the state machine John you\u0027ll like it okay the draft of course needs review okay prefer to get some volunteer reviewers without having to work in a group last call it in order to get your attention so folk with eye on it would be helpful and that\u0027s all I have due to other constraints I have to streak back to family problems in the States so I\u0027m gonna leave here so please head for the mics now John Scudder thank you I\u0027m glad to know the the source is the documentation always sort of a mixed message but snark aside I have a question it\u0027s really a question about what you said about security you said this the the users have to ask for it and I\u0027m not the user so I\u0027m not really here asking for it but often what I hear in the IETF is we do security unless the users tell us not to um no I didn\u0027t say that I said what\u0027s they have to tell me what their threat model is so I can make sure the security beats that threat model that\u0027s that\u0027s actually as the words were coming out of my mouth I realized that I was making the common error of complete conflating a crypto hash with security that\u0027s sort of like saying oh I put TLS on it and that\u0027s the same as securing it so yeah shame on me but but nonetheless security you can use IPSec right nonetheless I do hope that you know more people in the group of than just you and me are going to have this conversation because I think it\u0027s important I would gladly put it in I just want to make sure I\u0027m putting the right stuff in Rob Austin Marcus co-authors all joking aside essentially what we\u0027ve gotten at this point as far as security is our threat model is that somebody told us we need to have security we don\u0027t know what that means what we need it that\u0027s as far as it\u0027s gotten you can\u0027t design from that so that\u0027s why we\u0027re waiting for input I even suggested some aspects of the threat model in other words somebody walking in and plugging into your class or so and so forth and nobody bid nobody rose to the bait its privileges so if asked this I will forward please make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:39",
    "text": "sure that you put in the in the document the assumptions about security if if we say we don\u0027t need it or we don\u0027t have it right now we need to clearly specify why so if we\u0027re assuming that this isn\u0027t it close to me no one\u0027s going to walk in and the worst thing that your happiness is you said I actually walked physically into the thing please you\u0027ll talk about that it was that way it\u0027s you know a way to justify the lack or the fact that we don\u0027t have it right now I think the sec cons does that i will be laughed out of every coffeehouse in prague if i have a cyst pub me if I go for working group last call with the sec constant is we don\u0027t do it the other thing that may be nice is if we go and request security Directorate review beforehand so that we don\u0027t have you know last-minute surprises and maybe you know maybe that all these justifications would be helpful victor coercing hat off user on weekapaug i\u0027ll supply some more information in the list but probably one way to look at it and i can i Conniff i this statement is that no devices are trusted in a lot of fabrics so the assumption is that you cannot trust anything that connects to you and that there has to be ways to secure that that is in fact a trusted device I\u0027m not sure that helps but I can supply more texture and than if you like are you willing to do a you know let\u0027s make believe your cloths are you willing to do a CA for your cloths and have every device have an identity oh it suggests that\u0027s highly likely that hat that\u0027s how it works often yes cool yeah we know how to do that ladies and gentlemen maybe maybe one question you can yeah just you know you lost like you actually were mentioning that you were looking for volunteers for like reviewing the work correct although you know I\u0027m gonna ask the question on the list also like you know is it like anybody in the room here like no willing to sort of like stick up their hands and actually you know provide a review of the latest LS or document Nabil Chung okay so I will ask the question on the list also but already thank you thank you so John messenger and I would encourage you to liaise with I triply 802 dot one and use letting mechanisms defined in I Triple E because we\u0027re the guys who know how to do letter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:42",
    "text": "okay thank you you\u0027re not yet morning Neeraj Malhotra arcus I am going to be talking about LSA based easy control plane for a VPN networks so the main use case for this is an EVP an IRB Network where today see Emacs and IPS are learnt on the PE interface on the PE access interface and advertised in an overlay bgp evpn control plane to the other piece to establish both routed and bridged reach ability across the sea devices so as it stands today there isn\u0027t a dedicated PC control plane in any VPN network to do so so as a result of that see eMac learning is done based on traditional data plane mac learning see IP learning is done based on our pen Andy sniping and for scenarios where the sea might have prefixes behind it but does not actually run a dedicated PC routing protocol these prefixes are advertised from the PE device based on local policy configuration so as a result of this current learning method the C Mac learning today following scenarios such as a host move or following convergence trick triggers is very tightly coupled with how often the C\u0027s sending data traffic at that point in time and the CIP learning at the same time is very tightly coupled or heavily dependent on receiving unsolicited art and nd packets from the C device and when the sea is multihomed to multiple pcs this learning is also subject to the fact or each PE must also handle the fact that these data plane ARP and nd packets as well as the data traffic packets can hash on any of the member links of the lag and can arrive at any of the PE devices so what is proposed in this draft is a PE C control plane option such that PC Mac learning or the C Mac learning is fully decoupled from data traffic received from the sea see IP learning is fully decoupled from our Penn ND packets received from the sea and the goal of this being two to two essentially following convergence events and following hosts move events to have a very reliable and consistent convergence behavior and at the same time significantly simplify some of the procedures that are currently in place "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:42",
    "text": "to handle these convergence scenarios especially when when you have evpn all active multihoming in the picture so a quick overview the control plane is essentially based on LSO e as the base protocol and on top of that defines procedures and tlvs for overlay mat learning for overlay host IP learning and overlay prefix learning it defines procedures and handling with respect to when you have a VPN all active multihoming for the C devices and discusses the use cases that can benefit from this optional control plane so it\u0027s fairly straightforward in terms of the mechanics of it it\u0027s mostly writing on top of LSO e each so the P device establishes an LSO a session to the C device on the PA attachment circuit overlay tlvs format learning mac to IP binding or other IP to Mac binding learning and prefix learning is sent from the C device and learnt on the piece and advertised further in evpn control plane and then you have session liveliness maintained via LSO a keeper lives when the C is multi home to multiple P device and it could be more than two devices it\u0027s just shown here with two devices a separate LSO a session is established to each of the multihoming E\u0027s and this is really important because it now gives each PE the ability to learn its entire state directly from the sea without having to rely on the other PA devices and this brings significant simplification to our multihoming to multihoming simple implementations from handling perspective because now you no longer have to sink the Mack tables across the P devices you no longer have to sink the our Tandy tables across the devices and the P devices no longer have to handle unsolicited arts coming from the C device as opposed to in the current scenario an arp request would be sent from p2 to the C and the response could land at p1 which must handle this unsolicited response in addition because of because of that non-deterministic behavior as to which P\u0027s might learn the Mac or the Mac IPS today we have procedures like evpn aliasing to accomplish ecmp paths for mac forwarding and that that again becomes optional once you have natively learning the Macs and IPS on HP device the other complexity is for IP ecmp typically today the implementations sync the Mac IP route to the other piece and then the other PE typically will really generate that Mac IP route as its own to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:43",
    "text": "accomplish IP ecmp because and that\u0027s essentially it kind of I mean there are some proposals for IP aliasing in place but that\u0027s the current implementation in the absence of an IP aliasing procedure when a host moves today when a host moves the only way to detect a host move is when you receive the first data packet from that host if the host is silent for an extended period of time you would continue to black hole traffic to the previous location of that Mac until the Mac ages out at the old PE location of that Mac and once the Mac age is out if the host is still silent you would continue to flood the traffic on the overlay until until you\u0027ve actually learned the Mac at the new location so just to take a closer look and appreciate the actual complexity involved today with respect to handling a host move essentially when you receive the first packet from the host that packet triggers the hosts move event in hardware and typically it will be sent as a packet punch to the CPU or sent as a Mac move event to the CPU once the software learns of that Mac move event doesn\u0027t necessarily guarantee that you would have also learned the IP bind IP to Mac binding at the new location of that host because you may not have received a graduate result from the CEO at that point so based on that mismatch between a remote Mac IP entry in a local Mac entry the PE will typically trigger an earth probe to the seal and the probe reply could because of the multihoming could easily land at the other PE which would then advertise which would then handle this unsolicited our reply or nd response and trigger a Mac IP advertisement in BGP control plane as well as sync that Mac and IP to the other PE and that other PE device on receiving the sync entry to accomplish IPE cmp will typically again three originate that mac IP route as its own route to the other p then the other piece received these mac IP advertisement the old PE where this mac was originally local will trigger a probe again locally the probe that will fail and typically aged out and you would have convergence following the host move as opposed to that with LSO e it\u0027s fairly kind of simplified right pretty much the host moves establishes an LSO a session sends its tlvs the TLB czar learnt and advertised in a VPN control plane received by the other piece and you have convergence so another use case for this is remote mac IP routes learned via bgp evpn overlay control plane can also be preemptively relayed to the local c e essentially to establish preemptive ARP learning on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:45",
    "text": "c essentially like a ARP suppression mechanism for scenarios where the C II has prefixes behind it but doesn\u0027t run a routing protocol on the PE see interface today advertisements all for those prefixes behind a C II gateway are based on local policy configuration on the PA device so again this one local configuration overhead can be replaced with sending these prefix overlay prefix tlvs il SOE from the C e to the P device so in summary basically two main sort of goals that I would want to highlight for this is one essentially trying to achieve a very deterministic and reliable convergence behavior across all convergence triggers and host moves at the same time significantly simplifying some of the procedures and implementation related to these to the respective handling especially in case of an EVP and multihoming scenario that\u0027s basically AC Linda I think this is a really good location in it and it it it it really makes things more active rather than passive in the whole thing the only problem with it is it brings these C e devices you could never get rid of the old you know the the passive way in the learning way of doing it because it brings them into the e VPN and getting those devices updated with this and many even if it\u0027s open source with many times that\u0027s gonna be just administratively impossible yeah sure so I mean one thing I would want to kind of highlight is that it is an optional PC control clean and not a replacement for the current learning method and it\u0027s totally intended to be to coexist with other C devices in the same network that may not be using this control plane so it\u0027s basically it can be used where the C device has support for it but it\u0027s but the goal is to have it in to work with other C devices that don\u0027t have support for it Robert Rochefoucauld Bloomberg so I have a question just to clarify I care less about muck learning okay so I want to have l3 learning which is soft so on this light so is the goal here so use this kind of LSO e4 l3 prefix learning as the only application in some cases can I use it that way you should be able to write like I mean basically so each all the TL visas are optional essentially you can if if the C is sending Mac and IP tlvs you would learn you would use them for mac learning or host IP learning so the routing application again can be based on prefix routing or it can be host "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:45",
    "text": "altering right like if you have truly an overlay subnet stretch then you need to have host routing so essentially then you would use the host routing PL V\u0027s or the slicer read or / 128 tlvs as well otherwise yeah you could simply use them if you have the other use case of you know the C being the Gateway first stop gateway for prefixes behind it and you want to advertise those prefixes with the C e as the gateway then you could use it essentially for just the prefix learning okay dude having interaction in kubernetes communities or any other outside of you know ITF with this kind of proposal are you proposing is there make it more real not yet I mean nothing nothing no progress on that front yet hi Paul Kong did I wonder if you have or maybe could provide in in some future contribution a more kind of concise description of the requirements they have a protocol to support your needs you know what exactly is needed out of the protocol in terms of you know maybe timeliness message sizes responsible various attributes like that because it strikes me what you did was you you know you said here we\u0027ve got a tool l SOE how do I use it right and I\u0027m wondering if we could take the reverse look and try to analyze well what other solutions might be there or could be there to optimize your requirements ya know certainly very good point actually we should we should take a closer look at sort of like what might be the timing requirements for example for keepalive messages and so forth yeah short cash I have a question actually I guess in service provider deployments C and P devices supported LDP have you studied the 4 with respect to the MAC addresses what can or cannot be achieved with the current standard DP sorry with lldp did you say a toe to toe on a b link layer discovery protocol okay so basically so the main main reason for kind of picking LS OE to do or to achieve this was and a couple of attributes of LSO a one it being session and connection oriented and and being able to carry very large tlvs in it I mean I I personally haven\u0027t taken a closer look I mean maybe k you can comment perhaps it would be ethical yeah kayuu patel arcus i think the answer to your question lies in the fact that when you deploy a technology like EVP ends neither art nor lldp comes into the play there you do more of this kind of resolutions that near as you was talking about from the data path learning and the data path learning is not deterministic it has convergence impact and it adds "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:46",
    "text": "lot of complexity to the software which hopefully neeraj try to articulate it pretty well up here and that sort of complexity can be easily replaced if you have a connection-oriented protocol that does an implicit announcements and not a periodic refresh that was the point thank you Randy Bush I just want to apologize I\u0027m not leaving because of your presentation all but I\u0027ve got medical stuff back home and I have a flight that departs in two hours no worries take care of that yeah okay hi i\u0027m i\u0027m paul kangen I\u0027m doing a couple things here as mentioned just giving a summary of the liaison discussion as well as presenting a current status of an LD PDP version two so to speak proposal and I guess one thing I want to point out is on that proposal we\u0027re just you know thats just an example of how things we could do that match the current lldp requirements or our use cases as well as trying to address LS VRS use cases there\u0027s nothing set in stone here it\u0027s very fluid so I think things could be adapted as needed technically so just as a disclaimer I\u0027m not an individual here as we all are but I need to show the fact that I\u0027m just giving you my position or representation of the liaison there\u0027s an official one that goes on that\u0027s not me and so these links were kind of I think many of these links were already shown as discussed there was a liaison sent from the IETF to the I Triple E basically giving background about LSO E and asking for comment and there was a reply that was sent so my personal summary kind of what the response from I Triple E was is that more aware of this work I\u0027ve been going coming here and reporting back and forth and many people from my trickily come to the IETF as well so we\u0027re aware of the work is going on the first thing that came up was potential concern about the confusion with a layer to a link state over Ethernet protocol that we\u0027ve standardized called shortest path bridging so short path bridging is actually a topology management protocol is is meant you know using link state to manage it and we didn\u0027t believe so he is actually a linked state protocol it\u0027s in support of a link state protocol so the naming was a little itself was a little confusing so I think it\u0027s possibly very obvious but that one of the main objectives of lso II was to provide as as Randy mentioned link layer discovery and and as well as liveness and so as we all know we have a very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:47",
    "text": "widely deployed popular link layer protocol it was also link layer discovery protocol and it\u0027s also understood that the current definition of that protocol may not meet the needs of LS V R and so we\u0027ve been entertaining proposals to augment lldp for many use cases not just LS v r but we had an intention to try to support those or some of those one of the particular use cases liveness requirement personally I didn\u0027t believe is suitable for the lldp as it\u0027s done today philosophically because it\u0027s a as as Kara mentioned is more or less a state refresh not a highly you know responsive kind of protocol that doesn\u0027t imply that that couldn\u0027t be couldn\u0027t be changed to be more of that we do however have other standardized layer 2 protocols like connectivity fault management CFM and others that that actually do support loudness and there and there may be other ways in which a lot of this could be supported so I think that was sort of also a consensus of the v8 or two group and then finally of course we want to collaborate and work on this as well so we welcome work in the I Triple E to do that care yeah sure thanks Caleb Patel arcus I\u0027m did a bunch of requirements we\u0027d be happy to work with you on that a lot of those requirements have are being covered as part of Anasuya proposal but like I said happy to collaborate thank you okay so again I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m gonna provide a background of what we\u0027re currently proposing to do to lldp but and again it\u0027s it\u0027s very fluid there\u0027s it\u0027s open that we haven\u0027t even started a project eight triple-e did agree to draft a project proposal and address the requirements to start such an amendment project so that\u0027s a in the early stages and so a couple of us have already put forth something and there\u0027s a contribution that was made at I Triple E as well that tried to compare how this proposed idea would would meet the requirements of LS VR that that was that Randy had put together in some previous contribution for the IETF and then we discussed next steps where we did agree to to consider drafting a proposal so it just as a quick summary side I looked at the the requirements I\u0027ll go ahead no I\u0027m sorry go back to the last one just so that we understand a little bit of the I Triple E process okay there\u0027s a proposal so what happens I mean we understand what proposals happen to the ITF what happens what happens to the great okay so the I took we may actually drafts what we call a par which is a project authorization proposal that defines the scope and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:48",
    "text": "purpose and you know of a project and then we get approval through the higher layers of the I Triple E to actually run a project and that project depending on how its defined would either amend an existing standard so the proposal would be that we would take lldp and add some new chapters make changes whatever to address the new requirements or that project could create an entirely new protocol that\u0027s that hasn\u0027t been decided yet but there\u0027s a project authorization that starts that working group a work in a task group within NATO 2.12 so the discussion of whether that car is approved it\u0027s going to be in March well in March we agreed to jointly draft a proposal and submit it to the I Triple E we haven\u0027t agreed on what the contents of that are we just ought our working group to actually generate that project proposal yeah yeah no so go ahead and clarify yeah so just to elaborate a bit more on this the first point I would like to make clear that a triple-a to--to is contribution given same as a atf participation is in individual basis same as ITF anyone can come and contribute any part of this this work so the next step one is happening so this listen past plenary we have authorized forthcoming may enter him to specify the project specification the project authorization request so the the diverting off the group who would be the host of the project a 22.1 will be done and finalized in the main interim that can be discussions up to that point and in the interim we can have discussions on the weekly TSN course easy to request agenda item we can discuss these topics in preparation for it for that meeting and the power text will be crafted at the main time face to face what happens afterwards is that this power is recirculated for the 802 plenary which is in july and if everything goes as planned the other working groups of 802 review give commands we update the power and hopefully the power gets approved by 802 and then it gets on the agenda of the next ITA standard association s con meeting if everything goes fine it gets approved we have an official project to run and we can work officially in the project from the Milly meeting on what from the September interim and on TSN weekly course and we have various ballots we can make those steps and so on and we can done with the project 100 half years is very reasonable if everything is quite clear or if it if it is a shorter project it can be one year depends on how the contributions discussions agreement consensus building is done just a quick question then on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:51",
    "text": "that one to us follow I\u0027m sorry so that means you know that the timing would be like between now and like a year and a half to two years to come to something alright so Dorothy Stanley so on the question of the timing Yanis described the process for launching the project officially and given where we are now not in March the official launch of the project would as soon as that could happen is September given that you know work in a study group can carry on starting now the project would be officially started by a triple-a in September at the September standards board teleconference sessions and then work could continue and then the duration the project is authorized for four years the progress of the work and the rate of the work depends on the topics and the the participation level so depending on the nature of the changes that need to be made you could finish in a year year and a half two years three years yeah but it\u0027s clear your technical contribution can begin now and has already begun I guess capital arcus at the risk of probably saying something wrong but as we understand Paul you are the lies in between I took Lee and LS we are on what kozara between the two different parties it would be great if someone can start updating us with the status of my to police so we could help contribute to whatever that is needed to the ecosystem and make sure we come up with the right solution from point to point periodically as there are progresses or updates done within I Triple E particularly for this set of topics I just want to clarify one point in the beginning as you said there is no liaison person typically like a spore made it clear he\u0027s an individual bringing the letter so then that would be a note to the working group chairs to somehow set up a process that way at least announcements would come or if you suggest we should be doing it personally let us know but it is a an individual or con transmission organization just like ITF so there\u0027s nothing that prevents that from happening understood Thanks don\u0027t say the same thing I\u0027m also gonna point out that a gray sitting over there is the official IETF - I Triple E able to that one liaison so the IAB does have a formally issue program now what that means is that there is that formal process of us sending constantly a story back if we have common participation on both sides like what Paul has been doing where he participates in the ITF it\u0027s here if we can have people from here participate in the atf discussions that would be the best thing because we will have to rely on official things back and forth yeah John messenger I\u0027m acting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:54",
    "text": "chair of 802 that one just to clarify the they may I may enter in meeting is in Salt Lake City from May 20th to 24th and people will be very welcome to attend there as Janos also mentioned we do have TSN weekly calls that may well be be able to be used for discussion of the technical requirements in this area so we can begin to work on this in a fairly prompt manner yeah and just to add to that and I intend to ask for a time slot on a Monday call very soon actually yeah we can arrange that so I just want to emphasize it again what has been said that the tactical discussion can happen from now on this is kind of if I would like to try to make an analogy this is before in idea phonology like this is pre-party bar discussion and I typically kind of before working group adoption discussion in idea so kind of similar stuff so we can have the technical discussions ongoing now and officially with the project for September yeah that there is a lot of discussion on the different processes between IETF and I Triple E they are not so different in many ways and and that is documented on the coordination website between the two organizations and we have a lot of history of working together closely on various things so there should be no barriers really in that process okay so let me transition into again into a discussion of kind of what Ivy and a couple of other US other of us in have been proposing and again it\u0027s very you know may not there may be many changes that could be considered to this this is nothing casting concrete I did an initial analysis of the the ideas and how they might meet requirements from LS VR and that\u0027s been presented previously this was simply just looking at the list of information that is being exchanged in the LSO e messages today and determining well could we could we put that in an lldp v to TLV and clearly many of the things like MAC addresses and IDs and attributes lists you know we believe obvious are very obvious that can be done there was a question about the authentication data itself like we don\u0027t know what the security proposal is and how big it is there currently there is a limit to a TLV size in in existing lldp that could be extended as a one of the things that this project for example obviously encapsulation addresses keep alive most one thing so keep alive again there was sort of a desire for a one second type of link you know liveness melody p is wouldn\u0027t really work well if as unless we define something specific for keep alive today you you send the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:56",
    "text": "entire lldp information when you send something and so we wouldn\u0027t want to send an and everything every one second so something would need to be done for that but again we also felt there are other layer two liveness solutions that exist and are widely deployed as well and then in terms of acknowledging information we kind of that\u0027s an implicit part of this new proposal because the main objective here is to send more than one PDUs worth of data so in order to do that you immediately bring in the need for acknowledgments and things so so that was a summary have a look at that and you know provide me feedback or anything that that\u0027s fine AC Linda I I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know if you looked at it we have a we also before L as so II there was there\u0027s a draft that I wrote the bulk up to use lldp and one thing we really need big or tlps because you know just that there\u0027s the organ 8 organizational specific for the IETF you could fill that up very quickly and it wouldn\u0027t really help you to have multiple PDUs unless you could I mean it would really be cumbersome if you don\u0027t make the T of these bigger okay k little R cos I\u0027m talking about the same craft that AC is talking about which with I have co-authored and really there are numerous use cases that we want to go attack and like AC say for that extending PD use is one thing but you really need other things as well to make that which would fundamentally alter the protocol and we should chat about that like I said happy to contribute but there are more than one use cases periodic refresh eliminating them is one of them right so that sounds like an excellent topic for one of our phone calls so that maybe we\u0027ll get that on the agenda soon okay again I\u0027ll go briefly over a quick summary you know why were we doing this well you know one of the the main things was to send more than one PDUs worth of data but there might be other two other things as we know lgp is widely deployed so it\u0027s likely to be there or remain running even if there is another protocol so you know having multiple protocols trying to doing very similar things could be not desirable but again we do need to meet all the different use cases so and again the number of things that we keep sending in lldp continues to grow every time we add a new standard protocol we tend to add another TLV and there\u0027s a there\u0027s millions of vendor-specific tlvs out there as well so again we\u0027ve looked at motivations to people to to do different proposals just because of this PDU size issue relying on jumbo frames is not a good solution as we know that\u0027s that\u0027s not very you know it\u0027s difficult to deploy in all environments so at a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:56",
    "text": "minimum we need to exchange more than one teal more TOB sand and lsv our requirements are just one example of that there\u0027s we have many other examples so there\u0027s no matter what it\u0027s time to do something to lldp regardless of if it meets all of lsv ours needs or not we\u0027re gonna do something I think so it\u0027s a question of what we do so the objectives were of obviously to send you know more than one PDU worth of data and and we also had an objective to to even shrink the PDU if we want to support some kind of smaller PDUs for our time synchronous environments because we don\u0027t want to just blow out timing other protocols that are mixed on the wire so so by shrinking the lldp PDU then we bring even more need for multiple PDUs so so that was something that came up through our TSN working group as an additional thing and of course one key objective at that that i\u0027m pushing for strongly is the ability to communicate with existing lldp that\u0027s out there obviously not all the extra data but at least the first PDUs worth of data I should a version too should be able to talk to a version one and get the exact same capability we have today but if you do version 2 you get to get this extra capability so that\u0027s an important aspect I think of our proposal here we want to make sure that that this works right of course and then then there are other things that we can consider if we\u0027re gonna crack the book let\u0027s look at other things like you know maybe the the rate at which we\u0027re doing updates maybe we should have new reach ability so lldp doesn\u0027t just have to be linked by link we can we can put different addresses in the packet and have it go different reach across the topology so one example might be define a new address called nearest router or something and that might be very useful for clients discovering their gateways and where all the gateways that are out there so any there\u0027s some I think some useful use cases there and then finally one I think which I\u0027ve just heard today was allowing a a larger TLB itself so rather than the currently were fixed at 511 bytes of information you know making that larger or some method of fragmenting or what would be needed to support you know that so that those are ideas so just a quick reminder how does it work I think everybody pretty familiar with this but one one simple concept that that helps think about how this works is imagine that you have a your own local database of information and that database can fit in one packet well anytime I change something in that database what I do is I send it out to all my peers and then they update their copy and then if something changed when then they\u0027ll notify higher layer protocols that care about what\u0027s in that database that\u0027s a very simple way to think about it and then you just periodically refresh that information and it\u0027s very simple and straightforward so that obviously works "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:58",
    "text": "for the well when you have one packet but when you have more than one packet it changes quite a bit of the dynamics so this slides very hard to read I know but the idea was this current idea again I want to keep emphasizing that is that we would require a new TLB so there\u0027s already a set of TVs required in every packet that help you identify the peer we would add an additional TLB that would be required if you were aversion to and that TLV is what we call an extension TLB that basically a something that defined that identified defines all the other POVs you might be sending so sort of like checksums or something of each packet and that\u0027ll be received by a version one implementation so the way lldp works you\u0027ll receive that information they won\u0027t know how to interpret it but they\u0027ll still hold it in the mid and it\u0027s available so it doesn\u0027t break anything it\u0027s just opaque data to a version one but that new TLB would would again define all the other extensions that I want to send it would have some way of identifying each of those extensions so we could know that we\u0027ve received them all and again it would be ignored by a current implementation and then that new t-then so then we would have new PDUs extension PDUs and those would have a different format at least they would have a something that makes them ignored again by a version one so we don\u0027t want a version one patient to wipe out his database every time he gets an extra packet so we would have it such a way that that frame was ignored and there could be many ways to do that the easiest of which is just to use a different ether type and then when a tube person receives the the main PDU that gives the description of all the other PDUs if he doesn\u0027t know he doesn\u0027t have those those PDUs he would send a request message so he would send hey I mean I\u0027m missing the following information please send it back to me so that\u0027s how you would get your database synced up if you will so there\u0027s a couple cool optimizations about that as was once usually LOV P once it\u0027s stable nothing changes you\u0027re just kind of refreshing in case up here popped up and he needs to hear about it and you should support shared media nothing really changes it\u0027s just sort of going on it so we don\u0027t have to send all the world\u0027s data every time so with this new proposal we would just send that first first packet and be very compatible with existing implementations and we could age things and stuff that similarly currently the number of extensions that we can send extension PDUs is limited by how we describe them we\u0027re gonna put a in a TLV we\u0027re gonna describe all the other packets so I can only describe so many the current proposals is using like a 16 byte checksum maybe that\u0027s overkill so that only allows like 31 packets so it\u0027s not quite your 64k that l SVR has I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:59",
    "text": "think it\u0027s about 45 K but again that we could change that by shrinking the size of that checksum okay so here\u0027s kind of the proposed operation of this proposal so you imagine a list to get two agents this agent on the left he has a local database let\u0027s imagine he updates something in his local database and it\u0027s expands multiple packets as soon as he does that he\u0027s gonna send out the first TLV the first packet which is compatible with an old implementation and then he\u0027s going to follow it with these existing packets and so the receivers going to kind of coalesce those get those and when he decided when he\u0027s received every it all looks good he\u0027s gonna tell his higher layer protocol just like he does today hey something changed in this database go go do what you need to do so then let\u0027s assume let\u0027s assume that that agent that this say their agent hasn\u0027t been around before he nothing\u0027s changed he\u0027s gonna send his first packet back that just says here\u0027s my here\u0027s here\u0027s a description of my database if that person has never seen that before or he doesn\u0027t have the the accurate view of the database then he\u0027s gonna send what we call this request for extension so he\u0027s going to request the missing packets and then the the the other agent would just reply with those missing packets everything gets synced up and again we update the higher the higher layer so very simple augmentation of the current philosophical lldp with this just allowing additional packets so that\u0027s kind of the high-level summary of how it works again as we mentioned we approved a part that the we approved to generate a project that again and start working on this and deciding what the scope and requirements are so great time to have an input from LSB are we have a design team of people that continue to look at this offline so to speak and and I in like said Randi and others have in the past participated to that and anyway I have more details like you know PDU formats and things like that that are in the background of this slide deck but I don\u0027t think we have time for that it\u0027s probably not not necessary all right so any questions about that just for information I want to come come come back the clarification to an earlier point made in the very beginning at the chair scene so somebody said the person who wrote the lead is a letter the way it happens in 802 that one is not a person writes the letter but the group so actually we sit in a room like here it\u0027s on the screen and do we do the worst meeting like 60 people hundred people in the room so that\u0027s the group\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:59",
    "text": "message not one person\u0027s the other thing I thought it might work be coming back I heard that it was this point has been made before in in this group that actually it is not likely that it would be good for the industry to have two protocols for the same problem it\u0027s seems better for everyone to have a single standard a single protocol that\u0027s why we do standardization so for link layer discovery we already have a standard and if we have two standards and everybody has to implement two to protocol so it\u0027s not that good for the industry I killed Patil arcus let\u0027s get the requirements sorted out first I think we can follow up with the solution later on I as long as the requirements match what we\u0027re after I think the protocols can be worked out but I can clearly see some of the requirements missing so we should chat okay yeah I\u0027m happy to chat with the offline and happy to also coordinate with the TSN working group a phone conference where we can share that okay all right thanks morning folks my name is ko Patel I\u0027m gonna give an update on PGP SPF draft so the draft itself was updated in December we\u0027ve got lots of comments from Eric Rosen particularly focusing on the convergence aspect of the draft itself the draft they\u0027ve incorporated lot of those comments as well that we receive it\u0027s in a fairly stable state we\u0027ve also received lots and lots of reviews from folks that has been incorporated implementations are way under way to get it going I know at least one implementation that got the Safi up and running an SPF being calculated we gonna start publishing some simulation results pretty quickly the change with version 4 that came mainly was an edition of link NR a-- NLR i attribute bgp SPF status TL v that was added this is to signal when the link goes down without immediately withdrawing the link and lraa itself and this is to aid faster convergence when you have link outages the similar kind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:01",
    "text": "of status TLV was added for prefix NLRA that would be applicable to the prefixes for that link that had gone down and this is again to aid fast convergence aside from that there is no more update questions comments so a lot of thought the only comment I have is that I would like to encourage the working group again to please discussions on the list maybe we can get some more reviews volunteer reviewers etc so that we have just four more going on and to that point specifically if you are implementing and you have an implementation on the way let us know would be happy to do some interrupt testing it as well a conf I wouldn\u0027t expect you to open-source it but one thing that I think I think they\u0027ve done for rift is they have have a binary that people can test against at least I I didn\u0027t it was I didn\u0027t talk too much them this time because it was against the FDA and I need to be at the BFD working groups I didn\u0027t hear but I think I think that would be an alternative with your implementation if you could somehow subset the product one into a binary that a person could start up yeah not a bad idea I\u0027m assuming you all entered for that so here\u0027s a question of the group this we seem to have a drafter that\u0027s trying to get mature or at least so we think how many folks in the room have had an opportunity to read the latest versions draft or potentially maybe the penultimate version the previous version just as a show of hands so have a few so what we probably want to do as a lara mentioned is we\u0027ll go to the list and we would like probably some additional review so as a will sort out how we can coax a few folks into doing kind of a detailed review is at this point we want to make sure we gotta kind of vet out any additional challenge or if there\u0027s anything else that we have to resolve or deal with in the draft we want to make sure we get that done well so I\u0027ll make that we\u0027ll make that ask on the actual list itself as well as to also have that like I\u0027ve ever mentioned the comments if there\u0027s questions concerns or things we need to address we would really like to see that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "on the actual list itself and even if folks had any sidebar conversations please relay those onto the onto the list so we can see what that is and so we can you know effectively mature this out so yeah is that this is the last the other thing about just I\u0027m gonna try to encapsulate the conversation we had there was a lot of discussion around liaison and working with people working back and forth so we\u0027ll try to catch that just so we understand whom will be actually contributing with the folks over like Paul and whatnot on the I Triple E side and I\u0027m gonna try to sort we\u0027re gonna try to sort out the I heard a lot of session on the requirements I want to just want to understand with country how we can make sure we get that pulled out and we really understand what it is I heard it a few times I didn\u0027t really hear resolution on that just yet so we\u0027ll come up with some ideas as to how to kind of get that resolved and then play that back so there\u0027s clarity as to how we want to get that done so we don\u0027t we don\u0027t assume positions that does that feel worthy no come do Mike I wrote it that I share that works back for me as there before I think one of the best things that we can do here is to have that people cross working in both organizations not just depend on on Paul to you know bring the message back and forth or from aliens but to have that inter working it yes would be great if we can have a list a document that email you know something at least that we can point to and say these are the requirements specifically so we can share with everyone else at the same time yeah you\u0027re released thank you so much maybe just I just thought to mention one of the recent examples a with about the good collaboration between the two organizations ITF and 802 there was a project in 802 to specify extensions for VDP for embryo tree so the annuity working group a NATO 2.1 has been working together to extend a basically a 2.1 protocol for Andreo tree so that is one of the recent examples of collaboration thank you noted yeah I\u0027m looking forward to working with on this problem I guess I just want to emphasize that in the it\u0027s hard to keep your our eyes always on the customer and the end game here but I mean I think we want to do what\u0027s best for the industry regardless of how things kind of come out and you know just from a taxonomy found a point of view there could be obviously several several things that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:02",
    "text": "could happen you know we we can we can look at a suite of protocols that eight or two got one already has that meet the requirements you know we could you know do a new project in 802 the one that that tries to meet your requirements we could do nothing and just let LSE goats goats on way and and do all these these are all options that are on the table but I think it\u0027s really important that we keep an eye on well what\u0027s the most important thing for really the industry here and and in you know we want to create a bunch of fragmentation and extra work on operators and and everything too so I think it\u0027s it\u0027s strongly important that as organizations we come together on this particular problem so again I\u0027m willing and looking forward to that collaboration Boston arcus just um an architectural level for whatever it\u0027s worth the ITF has been down this road before in other protocol Suites for example we have x.509 versus DNS SEC right and really part of the issue in those cases this is there enough that\u0027s different about the requirements for this protocol that really needs to be a separate protocol and that\u0027s why I think it\u0027s actually really important we do the requirements analysis because DNS SEC really did have special requirements packet size and just too much baggage for other things next 509 is a big but it\u0027s a big network so okay whatever and we just need to figure out whether or not this is special enough that actually needs to be a different thing yeah I think that\u0027s precisely why getting the acquirements teased out well is gonna be really important for us to isolate so we can make that determination correctly and having creamin as to what that is thank you thing else okay with that unless there\u0027s any last comments we would be adjourned with today\u0027s agenda okay well oh thank you very much "
  }
]