[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:47",
    "text": "all right well we got about six people in the room there's about 25 total in the that are logged in via the online various tools uh give people i don't like two more minutes after lunch and then we'll get going look at that we're using the internet to design the internet it's great um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "all right it's two minutes after the bottom of the hour i think it's time to get cranking here um hey this is the wish session so if you're think you're supposed to be someplace else i think we're in the right place looking at the people in the room so if not go go join another session um hi i'm shawn niels is remote you can see him there um go through the nice close entries uh here's the well uh it's uh wednesday so hopefully you've seen this by now basically if you know something say something about ipr um you know be nice to people all the various uh best best practices for how to run a meeting etc um and uh if you have any questions about these ask anyone in the room i think most of the people i've hear i've seen before and are well versed in this if you're remote likewise um just kind of want to highlight the code of conduct not been a problem in this working group luckily uh basically try to you know treat everybody with respect you know speak slowly use the avoid the use of slang i think they put that bullet in just for me um make sure to dispute ideas using recent argument use best engineering judgment find the best solution for the whole the internet and contribute to the ongoing work and make sure that this applies to both online and in person so the next thing is the agenda um pretty straightforward just a couple things to remind you of no one here everyone here is messed up but that's really great to see but if you're local make sure you're messed up unless you're at the microphone and i don't at the front of the room and i don't know that anybody's actually going to be at the front of the room other than me so please keep your mask on again remember the no whale we just talked about please make sure to sign via the online tool because that's how we're going to be managing the queue to make it fair for all the remote people to be able to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "get in and out and if you do that you also there's no blue sheets as you'll notice but we do need a note taker and i'm looking around the room and i'm curious who's going to be willing to take notes we don't need blow-by-blow minute notes we just need kind of like high-level actions spencer you look down do you mind it's also okay to look around the vehicle oh that's true is anybody else willing to jump in and uh take minutes for us all right i think we're having a little bit of blipping here on the network but uh spencer if you would do that that would be greatly appreciated again we don't need blow-by-moments i think this is going to be fairly straightforward because we're trying to resolve working group last call comments and so we really care about like what was the resolution of the particular slide right okay great appreciate it um and again we really have like we've got one document in this working group it's the web draft and we're going to go through the the remaining um items that are outstanding or what sergio wants to talk about in the version oh four that's going to be the the bulk of our time i kind of pick 30 minutes because i look at the number of slides and i'm like yeah that's okay and then we're going to kind of have a discussion of like what the way forward is and uh sergio has taken the uh initiative to write up a draft for things i think he wants to do going forward so he kind of beat us to the punch and so we kind of made he you know semi combined slide deck and kind of split it so there's there's two sets of slides there but um i think we'll have the way forward discussion first and then try to figure out what the you know what the way forward is and what we will do with the working group so unless there's any problems i'm going to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "ahead and run the slides for you um sergio so go ahead and get in the mic line and i will go on mute okay hello so yes i say let's see i said this is a the presentation is about to to to comment all the issues that we have or the feedback that i have received for the working group last call and it has all been addressed in the in the draft so what i want there was not much comments neither on the mailing list on the and on the on the the project yeah i just wanted to review all of them so we can get a position that it is the way forward and just not have money much more discussion when when trying to do a new working group last call so next slide please so yeah so this is more obviously so then regarding the other then the the feedback that i have been received and i have addressed in the in this new draft it is i have a brighter day astra and introduction because there was several comments about it i have also added the samples for the hdpe offered an answer that was one hey one thing that i received a other clarification in support of what happened if they the media server supports only trickle eyes or ice restart but one of them but not both rewarding about bundle support that it is also requested other than a section about how to handle a multiple audio and video tracks in an sdp offer from uh from the the weak client in so we are like a future compatible for the upcoming version of whip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "and clarific also a small clarification while we chose the name of i service in the in the relat attribute when [Music] because it is a term they chosen the pickup from the wcc standard and also a i have a we have received or i have received a feedback from ayanna about the draft and they saw that there was some minutes on some missing a registration that was required specifically about the the superspace for the extension and so i have other sitting here sorry i have not answered the email but about but i have father's comment here so it has been a kind of a interesting week so sorry for not have been able to to answer the email but the the feedback is addressed here so necessary please so this is the the list of the issues that they um after discussing i think that they will not be fixed and it is okay in the rough as as they are right now uh the one the first one was i have also included the link to the end to the issues to check the discussion so the first one is that some protocol operation and some normative language was missing but we have seen that i mean when we inherit things that are mandated from in webrtc we don't need to add the this informative language and we can use yes lowercase a mass and things like that so if there is any particular case that you think that it is not this is not covered by written by from webrtc please uh point it out but uh in general as we think that it is covered so on that first point from a chair's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "perspective i think that actually helps because if you start uh double up double upping on the requirements language and one ever changes in the other spec then you have to keep them in line so if you're referring to something else it's better to just leave it alone like if it says must and the other one we're just gonna do must here there's no change so i think that's a good policy yeah the second one was about why we were requiring specifically the 307 error requests for for performing the load the redirection and being able to support load balancing and the reason is that 307 is the only regulation that ensures proper behavior with hd peoples so instead of having a wide branch of allowing other error codes that will not be implemented by clients anyway so and does not support hdp posts it is better to just use this specific error code the second one is the third one is the the discussion about if we should support basic on or other or why we were like fixing the authentication to use the very token there was already a concert about that basic should not be supported and we have provided a way how about how to use like a username and password or something like that in in the token uh of the of the beer header and anyway if there is any new authentication method for http we will have to update with spec anyway so i mean there is no way that we can be future proof here when we don't know how it will look like and and so and the next one is the last one it was about the turns with clients and with endpoints because in in webrtc input it typically means one of the two peer-to-peer any of the peer-to-peer endpoints but this is consistent with the rest api a rest api when the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "the when it is the end points are are used as the entry point for the for the rest api so i think that this is consistent with the spirit of the of the whip protocol and the wind paintbond endpoint is it is a rest aimpoint so i think that it is still correct to use so anyone who has any issue with not facing this feedback yeah so to be clear like this is the we're not going to do this we're moving on because we did work in group last call so if you object and you really think one of these changes need to happen the mic line is open if not we're going to move on and consider these closed going once going twice i don't see anybody in the queue sold so next one so this is a this was a i have i just put some of the of the changes that i have made to the drop that may have some impact so we'll like to get some [Music] some from the group that to approve it because this was not in the draft that was a in the working group last call so this is some changes that i think that will need consensus in order to be approved this one is a what happens if one media server does only support triglyce but not if stars or vice versa so uh i have added here um in um a change that if any of them if none of them is supported then then the patch must return a 405 meaning that none and the patch request is not accepted at all neither for israel restart or or or tricolize and if the request is safe from trigger lice and you only support if start or vice versa what it is going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "be in returning the 501 and not implemented for the requests that are not supported so i'm not sure if this is anyone has any feedback about this or this is okay for everyone going once it's never going twice in three times you can always get object later but like at this point this sentiment here is correct uh sorry adam roach uh i think the sentiment here is correct the wording i think uh means a little bit of thing because the the phrasing around when to send the uh the 405 is a little bit confusing but i think that this is technically the right way to do it okay so sorry you i mean because it is difficult for me to just if it would be great if you could just write a small pr so we can address it and and then the concern so because i mean i can write it but then i will have to go back to you and see if you think that this is okay so maybe it's easier if you just can write it down that's great and we'll get we'll get spencer to note that in the draft but i'm appreciate your input all right we'll go to the next we'll go to the next one unless there's any anybody else no all right turn stun always a great topic so the next one is what happens or we have included that it is possible to support or to return the is created until in the options when the clients that no support they set any configuration after they or changed the conversation until the local effect has been created but what happens if the the question was what happens if the resources does not require out because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "we were requiring that the options request was one authentic authentication in order to retrieve the to provide the and the student already and internal credit deals and what i have removed that and then then that is an authenticated options to be returned then the the options request because i think that it is i mean it is up to the implementators to decide when to to then to if they want to support options without a authentication to provide the the stone credentialed but what i have added is that the note that this should not be done for flight option with request for course so and this is the the test that it is there so this is that that's the spirit i hope that it is a correct the the wording and according to the into the draft of course the option request is the one that does not have the asset control request with the post value and i'm not really sure if the last part of the phrase that the request having the access control request header should be not contain a link value this is always the case but i'm not sure if you can request an option that will work for both for course and for for for retrieving the term credentials at least the process does not support it but i don't think that we should prevent this oh sorry then you sort of think and you put the the the slides in full screen because there are people that complain that the test is too small to to to watching in the room let me see can i make it go slideshow i will not be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "able to see the queue then so that'll is that better now if i do it one more and then do that is that going to work oh i think i gotta go 150. i think that's as big as i can make it give people a couple minutes to take a read these slides are also up in the data tracker okay again i can't see the queue but is there anybody that uh go ahead yeah yeah which again sorry i was i was just like looking at the the pr i was going to put in here for the um the trickle ice and i support language for patch and actually the text in here when i went to recraft it i think it's a little backwards um the way that reads right now it says that you return a 501 if you support trickle ice or ice restarts but not both"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "i think that's the 405 situation because 501 means i don't know what this crazy patch method is um but i can't handle it okay so it's the other way around yes okay i just want to make sure we weren't dangled on the axle on that does that sound right to everyone all right i'll go ahead no one's running to the microphone to object so sounds good all right thanks all right i will go to the next slide then nope jonathan's getting up uh yeah john max i didn't put myself in the queue sorry um i guess the only other thing i'd say is if you support patch for any other reason but not these you should still treat it as hey i understand what patches but not this one even if you don't support either trickle ice or ice restart maybe that's obvious okay yeah yeah i think that we should add it too so this is a the um the the one yes this is uh i think that there was a uh did that from christopher and he that he thought that it was a bad idea to go about the masjid they set setup at pass in and we have had a discussion in the hope issue and he provided this this change so i think that he's okay with that change so so i think that um so the question is say how about the rest of the group so the the issue is that we want to support clients or with clients to not have to implement both uh at pass and what not to support at that pass that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "means that they have to a attacks and be able to handle activity and passive uh for the from the depending on what the servers say chose but our idea has been always from the beginning to be able to lower the barrier of implementing clients so we are now supporting that the the client may be a send a set of attribute of active instead of the ad pass and we are also in specifying what should be the the behavior in case that the server that does not allow that julius i see you're in the queue feel free to come off mute thanks uh yeah uh hello uh i'm sorry but it was actually about the previous slide so i'm sorry i missed the opportunity because i wanted to discuss the other discussion to finish if you could please come back to the previous slide um so my question is is supporting options in order to get the iserver still optional i've just lost cersei yeah for some reason i'm having a complete what the hell moment this one sergio if you're speaking i cannot hear you am i the only one who lost her troll um [Music] seems to be he's yeah he's he appears offline right now probably some internet hiccup on his end maybe you go ahead and do this and still try to make your point and wait for this okay so my point is that uh so the natural thing to work with as far as i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "understand the webrtc api the browser api what you're doing is that you first generate an uh you first generate an offer you apply it to the peer connection then you send it to your room to the server and by the time when you apply it to the peer connection you need to know about your i servers so in the proper protocol there are two ways two things that can happen you can either send the options first in order to get the i servers in which case you do the natural thing or else you don't do the options in which case you are applying you need to send the offer before applying it which means that there are two different behaviors from clients for clients that are the drab doesn't make any choice between the two behaviors and so one of the two behaviors looks really bad to me in the case in which the client is on a restrictive network that only allows outgoing tcp if you don't put any i servers your it is not going to work so currently the draft allows two different behaviors for clients one of which is going to work and one one of which might work i know i'm not sure what the consequences are of um sending the uh of sending the offer too early and the other one which will simply not work in some cases and i'm afraid that that's going to be very difficult to debug that we are going to have connectivity issues with some clients or not others and i would like the draft to at least strongly recommend one of the two behaviors sergio appears to be back but i'm not sure if he has like a few cops [Applause]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "there he is he's back yeah sorry yeah i'm going to do it again i'll try to be quicker this time so i heard you options are still optional having the linking options is still optional yeah yeah this is optional in fact the whole student tool support is optional so what happens if we have clients and restrictive networks that only allow outgoing tcp it will not work i mean but but you cannot for anyone to support this to nanturn i mean same as you you can force anyone to in webrtc to support stu nantun no what i mean is that if i am the server maintainer i do provide a turn server that i know does work for my client population right in this case there is no way i can guarantee that all clients will be using it so i'm going to have some clients working some clients not working and that's going to be help to debug and help to explain to your users [Music] do you want to to to to uh to mandate that the client support one of both i want i want the recommended configuration it doesn't need to be a must but it should be at least strongly recommended i want the default to be that any turn servers that are that i provide are being used by the client i don't think that it is even enforceable i mean because the client might choose to to to use a different of course but if a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "different one so doesn't give enough guidance to the client implementers i'm assuming here that the client implementers are acting in good faith and that if we give a strong recommendation they will follow it unless they get i mean i mean i i don't think that we have an itf policy so i mean we have a lot of mass in the draft that are never implemented so putting a mask here is not going to help anyway so but any anyway giving implementation guidance to implementers cannot be a bad thing and so the use case of having the clients behind a restrictive network is something that is important in my world okay in academia most networks are extremely especially student networks are very restrictive tcp is the only thing that has a good thing about that yeah i know i get it i get it but i try to be let's try to be fast because we have only two minutes more for discussing so what would be your suggestion my suggestion would be to mandate that the cl to to make options on the server side support for providing turn servers on the server side a must no because sorry sorry go ahead sorry so uh i would so what i would like would be to have to provide to make it compulsory for servers to implement providing i servers before the peer connection is created before the initial offer is sent and making it should that the client should use the the i servers provided by the server i mean we cannot mandate the servers to implement the or to use tune because i mean it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "i mean there are a lot of servers that will not have to to have a tool server so if you want your service to support tune i mean it's okay for you but we cannot mandate everyone to support or to require two servers in order to run to run a web server so we can add the client should support and some of the configuration but we cannot mandate that the media servers always send a to a server configuration okay so if the server is providing i servers in the answer then it must provide the same i servers and an option before does that formulation suit you better and how now for example i will not i'll i probably will not support that in my servers and i don't think that because i don't want to because for in my case creating and so could you please outline so i've asked it on i think it was on github or in the mailing list i don't recall could you please outline what happens if the server is providing a working turn server but the client is behind a restrictive network is that a case where we give up english are we saying that the case of clients that are on restrictive networks is not something for which which is suitable no it is suitable and we have solution for it that what we cannot do is mandate to have support in the server so but i control the server i do not control the client population the reason which is interesting is that various clients are going to work and here you are not mandating a uniform"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "behavior across all clients so i'm going to have my network work with some clients but not others so we have adam and cullen in the line i don't know if they were going to make a point i'm um adam are you on this point as well i i am yeah well it's long time to unmute go ahead adam so um the the point that was raised on the list that i recall is that it may require actual acquisition of resources to provide these urls and under those circumstances it isn't realistic for a server to be able to provide a response in options because it's not certain that it's going to be able to like authenticate and put this request through it doesn't want to allocate resources for that and i'm sympathetic to that position i think we probably want to do is highlight for implementers that this is an edge that might catch clients out and make them aware that if this situation appears to be occurring they should alert the user that something's going on at least for the purpose of making it easier to operate these networks because i also understand the point that julius is raising here where just operationally deploying these sorts of things where the client silently fail is going to be painful cola um i mean i keep hearing that we can't mandate that the servers do x i i don't have an opinion on whether they should or should not do x but i think we could mandate that there's nothing stopping us from doing that if that was what the working group wanted to do right and we do that lots of other places and anytime you have something that's like a fully compliant client can't operate with a fully compliant server and they're not going to work on a network condition that occurs broadly all over the place that's never a great situation for me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "like so i'm sort of sympathetic to trying to uh you know have protocols and obviously if we say you know you must do codec y it doesn't mean anyone won't just ignore that code that thing but at least when that happens you can say like look you're no longer implementing the spec and that's why it doesn't interoperate so i don't know i'm just pushing back a little bit on the saying we can't do this i think we could do this whether we should do this or not i have no idea of what the right answer is but i think we could mandate it yeah but for example may i still so basically what i see right now in the current draft are three different client behaviors you can either well four but one doesn't make sense you can either do the options to get the i servers or not to do it and you can either do the offer before you apply it or after you apply it and that will have different consequences and different things about ice servers and candidates so i see three different behaviors for clients and that worries me because they will behave differently and they will cause operational problems i would really like it if we could at least strongly recommend one of the three possible behaviors having three different behaviors for clients is going to be absolute help to debug well i would say that we have added and optional behaviors because they are clients that are not implementing the specs so said configuration and said yeah and i mean is something that it is supported by the by the spec and so anyway so uh i'm trying to move this forward and try to find what is the the solution for this i mean i'm i'm okay afraid of uh of putting that the client should use the the the turn servers provided by the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "by by the by the web server either in the options or in the in the link i'm also okay saying that the media servers should provide the in case they support two servers they should probably should provide it in both the options and in the and in the http post what i would be against is to mandate to support on the on the media server and also to mandate or to require that the the clients who has to specifically use the then the two servers provided to in order to to work because they could they could be cases in which the companies has a local tool server for whatever and they want to use it because to bypass the the the the the firewall because you have the network servicing at the dmc and you just connect everyone to the into the twin server to avoid to have to open your uh the firewall to everyone so i think that it is not a good idea to to force to the requirement to use and then the two servers provided for in order to work would it be helpful if i described in detail the three behaviors i read in the current draft on the mailing list so that you can decide whether you wish to mandate one specific behavior would that be helpful search yeah yeah let's continue the discussion on the mailing list i try to agree on what because we are running out of time so let's try to keep that so let's keep this open and and this and finish the discussion on the mailing list yeah so just to be clear the whole point is to get through the working group last call comment so we'll we'll take this time we'll take up the future conversation we'll we'll just shorten that a little bit so all right let's go to the next one why does this not want to work what is my laptop doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "stab next nope it doesn't like that one passive setup it finally went sorry there we go yeah so uh so we have rewarded it too then to to change the the the wording so we recommend that the the the the preferred option is to follow then the rcc57c3 to turn to an attack an ad pass attribute and only in case that the endpoint it does not support a setting then setting it it can and just choose to to send an update but it is not a guarantee that it will work and so and also we have added a note about why this is a different behavior than what it is specified in the in the rpc because the idea is the media service always to support them because it's a media server so it is easier to implement both the media server and the client going once going twice sold all right sounds good i think this is a good way forward actually because you you change you you change it and he said he should and if you're not going to do the it tells you why and what happens so that's good all right come on laptop what is going on the next one so yeah i servers there we go so this is a then about how in the end they offer the so to specify a bit more what is the the expected behavior to avoid having to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "create a nice restart because it is what is happening for example in the browsers so the idea is that then that that this is the way that i have added a note that depending on the ice implementation because it is not really specified when they when the the the phase should be started it's obviously not after the before the in the so in order to prevent the restart there may be some cases when you need to apply the in the local description after a applying the set configuration is not just yes when after getting the offer and creating a and doing the post with it so this is just a note specifying that it is a what may be required by the implementation so it does not change the spec in any way and as julius says this is the the the issue that about the client behavior on on the unrestricted nat is what we are going also to discuss in the mailing list to see if we can put some more texts explained in the scenarios and so it will be just more informative about what could happen if in these cases and it will not change the way that the web perspective will work going once going twice and one thing that is this pr was missing in the draft zero seven but because i just thought that it was in but then the issue was not handled so i have had it and it is in the new in the main branch now okay great uh sorry what does the going once going twice mean does it mean that we agree with the current wording so i'm i'd like to know that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "no one has any other concern that the that the one that we have so it is not that that is that we will continue discussing this in the mailing list so next light please it's the strangest thing it will not progress what is going on local problem me all right so this is the the case what that and specifying what will be the the behavior if uh if a client send more than one audio on video track or more than one stream so we don't have currently anything in the in the in the graphics fourth into just one audio on or video track so and currently we have just leave the the implementation a bit open about what would the the server be expecting so this is a trying to address a bit more um there is an area in which the client sends something that then that the server is not expecting this could happen if for example if you are sending multiple audio tracks and then server does not support it because it will not probably be supported by anyone so the the what we have described here is that the the post should be registered with a 406 no not a stable error code this could happen um not only in case the that the audio that the client sends multiple audio video tracks or multiple streams but it may happen also in if for example the the client sensor audio on video stream but the media is already expecting an audio only so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "better to fail that just added partially they offered and by rejecting some of the individual assets because it will be much more difficult to identify for the clients and also will be much more and i think that the proper behavior should be that the client stops and sending the the the stream because i mean the the the user may may expect that the audience video works and and only video works and if they are sending multiple audio tracks they would expect that all works so just having a state that it is partial success i don't think that it is the best thing to have in a in a spec so we started projecting the individual insertions that the the server does not support it is preferable to just reject the hold and the whole thing thanks um so i think this is an okay behavior at a high level uh the 406 response isn't quite right that's used for content negotiation um and it's not a semantic match for this uh i'm gonna have to dig in and see what we might use the better 422 might work i'm gonna have to go and check the formal definition of that this might end up just being a 400 if we're going to be compliant with http okay so yes if you can you can send me what do you think it is the best server code because i think that it is one of the most difficult things right now is try to map the rush to the actual level of http error codes right yeah that's that's always tricky that's the that's why we have an entire draft about how to map applications on http yeah jonathan yeah um i guess two points one this makes me a little nervous because this is very much not the back compatibility model that offer answer or uses"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "which means that i'm worried that some future extensions might end up being hard to deploy because you have this mismatch here i can't think of anything concrete but i guess my other question is how is i mean not having read the entire draft in a while does the client know how many like it's concretely like is the client have a way to know that the server is expecting audio only this is a podcasting grass not a video ingress and how does the client know what gem lines to send i would expect that this is something that you can have it on your configuration i mean when you you are sending to youtube you know that this supports audio video if you are sending for example to cliffhouse you know that it is sending to audi only so it is something that i think that should be kind of expected to be known in in in at configuration time so that's why i think that it is better to fail completely uh that's to indicate that it is something that something is going wrong that just to partially work so they the clients that don't know what is going on all right um yeah i guess i mean maybe this would be a if this turns out to be a pain point in the future we may have to add a configuration for that but that's probably okay it's probably for that yeah i would expect that that in the future we will have to like have some something up to they get so the people so the clients can actually have like they have a get request to their resources so they can have like more information about what's going on about the station and that's supported nothing like that so i think that this will be solving this will be part of any future extension all right we'll go to the next one [Music] okay and this is a trying to solve the issue with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "ayanna it is a a new superspace for existing new parameters in in [Music] in in to register to create a new a register in the in the in the urine super space for for protocol parameters and this is a change a bit about the format that the other of the extensions and i have added the yeah i have followed one example that i think that there was a zip or something like that and tried to copy paste everything i think that i have missed something because i have seen something in the comments so i will review it and and ask for feedback in the email about how if what is the best if anything is missing if how do i need to to solve it but the idea is to to add a new register so we can when we define new extensions we can add the extension to that register in the in the in ayanna all right i think there's no discussion on that point that was an email you actually got from myanna right there because they're being proactive yeah yeah they are monitoring all the drafts that are being submitted to and they saw my draft and and luckily discover that this issue yeah so next steps uh i will well we have one necessity that it is a final and or getting or solving first day and the the error codes and some working that will provide also we have to discuss the issue that julius has pointed out about the the different configurations and different behaviors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "of the eyes of the i say of the i servers then we will need to update the drop based on the on the feedback and publish probably sees with the with the benefits and not surely we need to do working group last call again due to the number of changes or if we just say yeah so i haven't i haven't talked with meals my personal opinion is that we should because we're changing must uh 2119 relative language the only thing is i'm trying to be practical is when do you think we can get the changes done and get a new draft because there there are parts of the world that go on vacation for like august so yeah and i'm not sure yeah like you right so i want to make sure that we're being reasonable like hey give it to me next week and i start a working group last call and no one's reading it so yeah i would love to kill yourself and we'll maybe we'll shoot for another version sometime early september and we shoot for another working group last call sometime in september does that sound good if we can have the in the discussion in the in the in the email done during this week and this week i can provide a draft lately next week so we can do a working group classical but it depends on we can agree on something on the on the mailing list about the depending issue i'll be optimistic and say we can because that's what's been going on so that would be great if we can get another if we can get people to submit comments uh um on the proposed changes and the keep the discussion going on this i think we can move it forward all right so we've got about 10 minutes left so thank you very much sergio um one of the big questions that we have is that this dr this working group has a chartered item a chartered item and we are very much closing in on getting done with that item what do we do um so the question is you know we could look at extensions and look at other things and sergio has some ideas he's actually got a whole slide deck in another draft and the question is do we do this in this working group or do we go back to dispatch do we go somewhere else what's the feeling for the working group and the appetite for getting things done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "and it's kind of an open floor discussion and if we don't have anything to say then sergio's got some slides so i'm curious what people what people think adam you're first in line so my my personal take on this is i think we want to go ahead and get whip out there in the field get some practical experience before we um go down the path of trying to find other things in this space um i i'm kind of agnostic about whether that means putting wish into a dormant state or running things through dispatch again or you know finding some other home but i think that just in terms of the amount of energy that we've seen in wish so far we should probably go ahead and get like i said some experience around the protocol before we try to take another thing on this group i just don't see it moving forward very quickly at the moment okay anybody else sergio you have some opinions yeah i think in terms of the extensions if to the web protocol i think that i have some some in mind but i agree that i think that we should get a bit more experience in deploying the the the the protocol right now than to get feedback before trying to to address them so i'm not sure if we should say leave the well a part of the the web draft that i will going to to present in a minute i'm not sure if that we should wait a bit for the final web extension until the rfc is open and we see more implementation in the wild to see what gathered new requirements for the for the for the for the extension before doing them okay so i'm here and if we're gonna do it we can maybe do a working group last call and then everybody will be okay with like just kind of going dormant which is basically means we wouldn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "meet the next session if we get or the next ietf meeting um if we are able to get through the working last call documents to get this to the isg and are able to review it and we would meet obviously if we had uh to deal with any isg comments um and we'll see that's perfectly acceptable all right so we do have like six minutes you did have another set of slides and so i think we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna uh let you indulge yourself in some additional slides and so go ahead yeah please see if you can oops open there and then nessa slide all right so let's go to that one all right why is it not sharing stop sharing go after reshare okay yeah yeah screen track closed sorry about that so i should be able to go share screen share my screen share the other one i'm already doing it do you really want to share your screen i do want to share my screen now it's going to ask me what i want to do i cannot believe i'm having you guys see anything nope all right well anyway i think that even we have a five minutes we will start so a web is say then [Music] dance has been working on during the the last weeks i mean it has been very less recent but we wanted to present it here to get the feedback from the room and asking how could be the the best way forward so chen is also here in the in the in the room so jenny do you want to to also speak about what is the your feeling and what do you think that a web is important for the for for you okay hello"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "hi hello hi yeah yeah this is uh uh from uh by rt uh from by dance uh actually yeah by dance has built one of the biggest artistic platform uh in the world we call it by rtc and to prove to improve the service quality and the stability and achieve the best at user experiences we are looking for integration with other rtc platforms just like how we integrate the content delivery network platform but unfortunately there's no existing way without integrating sdk so thanks weep and it resolved the ingress problem to resolve the egress problem the web was drafted so thanks itf for the chance to present and discuss it hope weep and web can help the companies which are meeting the same problems as us so medical and the bidens are working on the poc now so hopefully we can approve all the draft yeah thank you okay so so as john juan has already said i mean even if aggress is outside of the scope of the with working group right now i think we have reused almost all the mechanisms and that we have to pay them in place for whip so this is what with what sorry go one slide before because if not i one is like okay so the the draft that we have brought written is basically replaced with fro for web and that's all that was required to to be done i mean so the so so the first is way web as jin and as a junior already said is we think that it is a good way of having integrative interoperability between the different webrtc service provider so it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "is not as a sweep that it was like having more clients or being able to use media from more for for for a wider range of tools this is could be more useful being able to integrate different service providers in an interpretable way without having to implement custom codes to customers sorry custom protocols this could be also used to and to have like common player software that could be easily integrated without having to to to integrate the sdk so having to do any kind of javascript programming i think that it is very important for some kind of devices like for example like tvs because in tvs you cannot typically or it is when you have like for example impeccable other same things supported when you have have the the native player of the of the tv playing uh um a video but you can not have that for webrtc and also this has already been some conversation on going in in about having to how to integrate the impact das with webrtc and being able to provide for example ah a mixed experience where you can have um the the user being able to switch between a live webrtc stream and a time shifted version of it to for example to start watching the event from the beginning without that you can fall back to impact us for that and so on so i think that this would be also interesting for that uh so well the question is if we should register with working group to include digress or we should do something else so necessary so i can easily yeah so the idea is i mean this just replacing with for web and the idea is exactly the same so you then we play as an http post with sap to the endpoint the input there returns the answer and we um create and then the request and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "respond so everything is set up and we can delete it in with uh within our an sdp delete so this is really similar this one please we have added a different uh option because there are some a first there are some webrtc implementation especially for example unity that does not support doing great offer so it is it's strange but it is what it is and also for example it will allow to avoid to set up another ambition session when only audio is supported so the idea is to sorry i have jumped to send and i think that they have the no the the graph here is wrong the idea would be to do an empty http post with a an empty http purpose so on the so the web endpoint returns the http offer and then the the web players sends the the answer in an http patch so forget about what is this yeah unfortunately we've run out of time unfortunately so um uh i guess we we can take this this discussion to the mailing list um the slides are up in the data tracker so feel free to amongst download other i'm sorry i had to cut you off there um thanks again for all the presentations and discussions today but unfortunately we're out of time so we'll see you at our next regular scheduled program thanks uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:07",
    "text": "oh"
  }
]
