[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign [Music] yes all right yes thank you and just to say the report here as well I presume Turles is coming person is he yeah hi [Music] there you go where is Paris so we miss our local chair okay anyway nice thanks just time can you hear my screen the chair slides now I can see it Okay so it's it's now o'clock it will although we miss our local chair theories we should start our our meeting this is NMR working group meeting and just you say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "um held by the chair there is Eckert and myself xinjiang first of all I did to notify everyone I changed my affiliation I'm now the professor in Beijing University of post entity communication and so that's made you your job I just start this August and and I'm still here uh serve as the animate here um because I just start my new job so I don't have funding and they support to travel to London this time but it's in my plan to uh Japan next match so and this is the IDF node wheel everybody attend the meeting should read this and they have real as state in this node wheel this is the uh our biscal information and chair myself and theories and we have our Eric and director Robert Wilton um um we published our agenda and the minutes is taken by myself and also using um all the slides already uploaded um and we have this video stream um for this meeting there's no physical blue sheets it will take according to the video stream and there's no job Chopper"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "anymore foreign oh there it is yep you're already outside um you can take over yeah yeah so um or uh no this is fine you you can keep the slides uh and uh I'll I'll continue can you get closer to the bike you can we can really barely hear you yeah no I just from from the prior slide you know please go into the mid Echo tool um so that you're being counted as participants in the working group especially when you're in the room because otherwise next time there may not be enough seats although we're fine right now but that's how you're being counted by being in the mid Echo um that's that's the new thing and also the note-taking right uh you see the note page um that everybody can edit it so please help us with taking the notes when we are in the discussion sections of the different presentations so that we capture what's being um done in the uh meeting this time next slide join the APR disclosure page yeah right so the the IPR early this uh the the IPR disclosure so we're um uh working group that is um asking for IPR disclosures when a draft is being adopted by the working group and not only when it is released to the isg which is kind of the old process but I think now most working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "groups have changed to the early IPR disclosure process next slide okay so um when you're in uh in implementing using reading animal work um and you are discovering errors you know there is an error process to report errors to the RFC editor so that they're tracked um and can be verified or rejected and we have for a published aratas uh for us we have aratas for four of the rfcs we've published so if you're implementing also be sure that you read the Errata so that uh things that are wrong in the rfcs that you're taking that into account when you're doing implementations against them um next slide so and here is the the set of the um working group documents um so we have uh nine active working documents one is expired um we have um four working group documents for which we have not received slots um to speak about them in the working group meeting today um and for one of them we've received for the anima grasp distribution we received um notification by the authors that they are working on it and hope to have an update for the draft at iitf 116 um and for the others we haven't received information about why they're unchanged from itf-114 so if any of the authors could would like to um stand up now and say something about it so that as possible we can put it up in the notes let me just also take some time to get myself in the uh notes section"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:06",
    "text": "so that I can take notes Here yeah sorry okay here we are okay nobody uh from the authors here uh wanting to say something about this let me see I'm sorry I'm asking if there is any uh update on any of these uh three other drafts with respect to um why uh they they haven't um they didn't seem to have received work since itf14-130 I mean the reason why they didn't is not important but what's important is what they will their plans for next I I thought I I replied to your email about this our brewski cloud has been waiting for working group last call for more than two itfs um that's why it's not changed um grasp distribution I can't speak to to to that work are voucher delegation may or may not be uh irrelevant or uninteresting to anybody at this point um rc8366 bis is still interesting um but uh other work took priority so uh that's why there's no no reason no result on that um but um as soon as we get uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "constrained stuff out of my queue then I will come back to that for sure okay let's take okay I don't have a question um when you say you may have the time slots for the RFC h366 bits uh do I mean before next item meeting do I think we'll work on it before 115 is your question um seems reasonable to me that it will make progress before then um as I mean I'm assuming that the constrained voucher we're going to finish it this year and uh one is so um I would say just you can't focus on 12 things you get nothing done right so that's the major part okay then I'll take um your words as you'll do something before next eight meeting as a notes thanks okay and I've I've put down that Chang and I need to look into the working group last call for brewski cloud and likely get that out quickly okay so um not going to talk about the draft for which we have slots in this meeting uh next slide uh just a short question I raised my hand but uh oh okay sorry um one question to yep thank you uh one question from Michael uh Michael you said that our voucher delegation will be irrelevant uh is that did I capture that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "right or or was it just regarding the state and Technical content uh still will evolve you tell me so I uh I we entered this with great enthusiasm a year and a half ago or something um and the use case um came from a number of different places um one of them was opcua um and they've moved on that that the time for for that for them has passed um and the Char possibility to align them their uh thing that they call the voucher which really was not to align it with what we're doing that we that Windows go over they don't have a lot of interest in that um they do need the assembly process and they have an interesting process a different process to build assemblies which is very different than what we did um and uh so their interest in that is is gone now um uh um Stefan um so um um I know you have some other interest within Siemens for some of this stuff and so I would say that uh you need to we need to figure out what remains from that part and uh it may or may not be relevant anymore is what I'm trying to say Stefan um um okay okay so I think that that um I think that that this is this is this is work that has value but I just don't know that we actually have a customer for any of it and I don't see a point in spending a lot of time um doing a lot of things if there's in fact nobody that presently needs it right okay agreed so so that essentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "means whenever we want to to kick something off we could use it as a starting point and then basically enhance it I fair enough yeah thank you apart from the working group perspective that could mean this working group document expired before next meeting then uh it's dead foreign but Shane I think uh if uh the the Siemens folks want to reinvestigate what they want to get out of it and then um basically uh we we work to make sure that it does solve that remaining use case then we can continue but otherwise if if we don't have a customer representation here then maybe we declare that yes yeah I think it's okay if it dies we don't have to probably every document that we we thought was a good idea at one point that they could be come silly the problem space till like problem save still exists how do I um resell a device securely um and how do I uh build an assembly of devices which results in a new device which I sell and this document actually didn't solve that second problem very well um and it may be that the first the way it solved the first problem was was broken so um I would say that we need to have more more uh interaction with end customers to be more precise about what they need right and I'll also say that some of the some of the desires here came out of the reviews of of of brewski about being unable to do these things and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um I don't know uh some of that's water under the bridge at this point right okay continue until this right thanks uh next slide okay so this is unchanged text right so um please make sure that uh when you're getting with your documents closer for an intended working group last call that you did have enough reviews uh on the document and one way to achieve that is to offer you know in return reviews for other authors documents so that we don't have to struggle with the working group last call and documents that haven't seen um enough uh good reviews on them um and we also of course always have the earlier reviews so um especially uh try to figure out which of the other directorates um iot directorate for example security directorate um the Yang doctors and so on uh may need to review the document anyhow because it does affect security iot cases and has young models in it just as an example and make sure that uh if that hasn't been done that you'll you'll contact us chairs and we'll help to put those early requests into the queue for the document um next slide okay shepher ending um always a good thing um we we mentioned that every time and if your document still is missing in Shepherd uh please you know look around from for the other authors who you think uh not being a co-author on your document might be good a good catch and contact us contact us cheers next slide okay um so this uh these these meetings of narash because we have a lot of items to work on and then a good amount of processes to deal with that um if if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "feel that your document would need more time for a discussion then uh please uh bring it up on the mailing list talk with the chairs it's always not difficult to set up interims when enough people are interested to spend more time on individual subjects next slide um we obviously already have a weekly ongoing really good uh discussion team for most of the brewski documents and we'd invite you to also join that meeting uh to to discuss your brewski work when you're not doing that already next slide and yep we we don't have an official ITF um GitHub but pretty much all of the anima documents and the individual contribution documents proposed for anima are in the nmrwg GitHub um and uh when you want to contribute new new work we also suggest you to just get invited to that uh GitHub and put your documents into that as well all right and I think that is the end of the chair slides and um please go to the the note page where we we have the uh the agenda um so that would bring us to uh slot number two which is an update on the uh constraint brewski join proxy um and that should be uh Michael then presenting and let me see I think that's what I was trying to tell you why um yeah wait a second so I was here once Frank brewski just give me a second foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:06",
    "text": "no you're gonna share your screen instead no I'm not going to do that sorry yeah so then you have them loaded you just need to pick the right slides I know that that just brings it up on my local screen sorry on uh no it shouldn't it should should um you have the slides no uh um oh no you need to to click on that all right no two yeah choose a deck to share there you go thank you oh uh this is um this is esco's talk where's Esko you're going first oh I've listed here here with the constraint voucher so did I just swap the presenters okay okay crazy okay so this is the first working group I joined which does not have an agenda in the ITF meeting tool what if you click on the meeting materials and then agenda yeah we do we do have the agenda but uh yeah you have to copy that paste that to the web browser then you can say that in the meeting notes uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "yeah it's a link basically yeah to the agenda okay that link works yeah okay shall I get started then if if I'm actually knowing how to progress the slides here happens here yeah meanwhile you can look at the the small Bruce keys on the top left side so sorry little beer bottles okay we'll present the status of constraint brewski also known as constraint voucher so this repeats a figure from a while ago already 2018 there was a request for working group adoption of constraint voucher and some very nice Graphics to go with it so this uh says need to fix names here so that I think we have some new naming by now but for the rest it's still uh yeah still valid okay so we have a long history but it's still progressing it holds time not very quickly so next slide please so we just tell you what happened since the last times we presented to recap the goal basically we would like to have a brewski bootstrap solution and one that works for constrained devices and constrained Networks I can take this off I think yeah so it's suitable for wireless six open mesh networks but also for other types of constrained Networks so key differences are that it uses for example cob and DT less instead of https has cos azine sieber instead of CMS sign Json uses constrained EST Co-op s this is already another RFC and in general we want to over uh want the overheads of messages and options to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "be minimized so that's good for constraint implementations so they need less code and the networks need to transport less data if we do that okay next slide so now we'll go by the previous versions that we made this one is still from February I might have already been discussed in the previous ITF meeting just as a recap so what we did is we clarified their values for the assertion fields um basically derives from Yang enum but it's good to make That explicit for for those people who are not completely up to speed with Jiang we did some editorial updates and also we did an update of the brewski well-known URI super registry so we proposed to add a new column there which is done to be applied by Ayana in the end okay next slide we had a version 17 with some small changes so uh particularly saying how we amend the brewski RC and also a new section was added in security considerations okay next and then version 18 appeared so we have uh there the number assigned to the content format so it's application slash voucher codes a plus c bar and also some Discovery extensions were added so there was a lot of the recent discussion was on Discovery and yeah grasp is now mentioned Co-op Discovery and as I understood we discussed the DNS SD Discovery as well and the idea was to keep that for future work I think there's also some presentations by Taurus on DNS SD coming up and further editorial updates were made okay next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "so I also implementations have been made over the past years and we did interrupt between them and this slide just lists uh the implementations some with a little bit of detail and some links you can go to the materials and click on them to see where that code is located so it's four implementations listed here um let me just summarize that yeah most of the implementations include different components or it's typically a registrar a Maza and a simulated pledge that needs to bootstrap um and then specifically on uh my own implementation there it's the second bullet I also uh yeah would like to mention that it's also meant to be a framework to be integrated into automatic testing which means that it can not only produce the correct formats for vouchers certificates Etc but also produce some incorrect formats on purpose just to test uh compliance of devices through that so to check that devices being tested will actually stop the bootstrap process or throw the appropriate error message okay let's go to the next slides so this says demo um I'm not sure if we have actually have time for a demo it's just very short I can but I have to share my screen to do that and as we know it can take a minute let's see if that works then then we'll just uh okay then it's first okay then I'll just ask to share screen it's now unshared so the request has been made now I think the shares could have to press accept for that I don't see any anything like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "that so I hope you'll just get it yep and you have to answer some questions whether I change my mind or not and then again share and then it says are you sure it's um like a multi-click process oh wait I can't even press share okay um thank you okay I can only share a window it seems no that was blocked in the whole screen so I'm just sharing this uh window you see some uh Java code here let's see is it readable at all yeah this is just to show there's a list of tests on the left with a lot of green bars so it's just nice to highlight that this repository includes testing as well so you can run unit tests that will instantiate different topologies like registrar and Maza and the number of clients and it's all tested on localhost so the code here that you see will test multiple pledges so it basically um has a loop to create pledges maybe I'll see if the mouse works then you can just hover over it okay yeah I can see the cursor so it creates a number of pledges and then starts them almost all together and then it waits for each pledge to finish each pledge will internally have code to perform a bootstrap process so that's also a way to test the concurrency of the server in a very simple way and there are a couple of tests like this so um every time we hit some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "interrupt issue uh like weight you did not use that flag in the certificate or in the voucher then well we can add a test here that tests a specific situation and then yeah to see that the register of the miles home handles the the case correctly is this now you know all your Commissioners is actually including testing of uh some of the other implementation code that you listed as a interval yeah this is using only uh let's say my code which is uh actually forked from the open thread project I should say so that's where it started there's an open source project but I basically made my own Fork to develop further so it does not test any of the all those codes but you could um basically use the software components to uh yeah access other people's code so maybe I'll just quickly try to share another tab how would that work stop screen share and so the network setup in in out the proxy is that the registrar IP address is explicitly configured or on Layer Two or for the red or that you do have an untrusted Network where you can do the discovery yeah so for this test for example it's all pre-configured so no Discovery at all so that's quite simple and it's also on localhost so all the discovery aspects are not in this code actually see window show something else here you see a command line interface I'll make it a little bit bigger [Music] okay so simple command line interface you can start pledge"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "on the command line you provide yeah an IP address basically of the registrar to connect to no Discovery here just hard-coded and you press RV and you get a lot of debug stuff so at the end it will get yeah basically some bytes here and then it means that the voucher request was successful so this went all the way to my Cloud Server in Frankfurt just to make it more exciting because it's just a bunch of text okay now you can do enroll which is the EST enrollment part so then it will print here the certificates uh here and the private key basically that was the result of this enrollment process so basically the pledge creates the private key and then yeah that performs EST to get a signed certificate okay then I'll just move back okay stop the screen share I think it was some content still on the slides so we'll see what there's the next steps yeah open issues and next steps so we do keep the GitHub issue tracker so that's the main let's say indicator of open issues that we use at the time of writing there were about 12 or 13 issues open so we have also interrupt issues and future labeled issues these are not really counted for the documents and yeah there's just I think three important ones uh the first one is to check all the examples these are now outdated so we have to check examples against the running code to make proper real examples also in the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "and I think the discovery section still needs a bit of update to match the new uh constraint joint proxy that Michael will talk about and there was one discussion item that I opened so it's a possibility to optimize optimize for constraint networks to so reduce the data size by yeah excluding one the root CA shirt in the handshake of the Pledge so that was an also GitHub issue opened for that but that's open for discussion so it's uh proposal or basically how data can be reduced with the assumption that the register has root CA certs already pre-loaded of all the devices that it wants to onboard in its Network okay and that's it I think yeah uh so I see from a year or more ago um three early reviews iot dear exact year in gen heart and they said it wasn't ready so uh do you feel that uh all their concerns have been resolved yeah I think at the time we opened a couple of issues on that on GitHub I think these are now uh closed or as far as I can see so I did not actually check uh that's yeah those feedback emails but I think Michael opened at the time lots of issues for those and one by one we have resolved them so I think I would need to check then it would be good to check the original emails I think to see if that's really the case but I would assume yes okay thank you and questions uh who has read the latest version of this draft to okay not very many yeah so uh try to find more reviewers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "that's the usual thing right I mean yeah that's something when we get to working group last call it's going to be probably the most important uh remaining right yeah and fix the examples I think then let's try this Mr Richardson again shall we excited and that would be then the constrained joint proxy I decided to dress for the dance working group which is next so there you go um oh yeah all right uh yeah sure you can go next slide um so um this this document went through to uh through working group last call I would say even was it I think it was even before the previous ietf um and then um went out to the Ayanna for expert review specifically on the topic of um the co-op pieces and the expert reviews reviewers were a little bit uh displeased with our use of Co-op discovery um and I guess in uh September I think um maybe it was beginning of middle of October a few weeks ago um we had a cult a core working group discussion uh about that and it overflowed into the iot Ops uh working group because they were in fact uh they were scheduled one on top of each other in Virtual uh in uh virtual interims um and since we're all going to the other one that we just did that there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "and um the overall thing was the question became well why is the uh join proxy format where we went from uh previously we went from uh uh bistoc uh seabor um to a encrypted bit of seaboor um and then the question was well why exactly is it not just a co-op header and I said well because I thought that we were going to blow too many bytes doing that and the response says well you don't need this you don't need this and you don't need this and actually one of the questions is why RFC 90 31 which was six tis minimal security which does use a co-op header why it has so many of those things and the answer is maybe it didn't need them um so um the short of is that we changed it so this this slide really just talks to you about what it looks like in grasp and there are several different ports that are returned um next slide please um and you know again illustrating in grasp but you need to uh you would do uh a discovery by the join proxy to find the registrar and now what we return actually is uh not is weird rpy thing but in fact just Co-op so next slide please so um as I said so previously we had this thing on the upper left this this built-up structure then we said well let's encrypt that in one one four and now we said let's just make it a co-op header um now actually this is wrong the document is wrong when arguing specifically the proxy scheme option which says Co-op we believe that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "don't even need so that actually saves another six bytes um the end result is that the cost of making it a co-app header versus making it this crafted cddl in the upper right um it's actually only two bytes two bytes extra to make it a co-op header and make it all look same so um what I'd like the working group we I've published this document the new document with this code in it I haven't merged the poll requests and there's three of them piled on top of each other because I don't feel like the working group actually has has really had a chance to really say yes or no so I'd like you to do that next slide please um yeah so that's basically it what we've done it's a it's a large change to the document at a very late State um and uh I would say the implementers are like uh whatever we had six changes what's one more right um but this at least makes the core working group and the expert reviewers happy um and uh as I said it cost us two bytes and it now it looks kind of really really just correct and the other interesting thing is that it aligns it pretty much perfectly with RFC 9031 uh which has OS core security and no ttls and Rob thank you um so that's just sort of like a process question really so I'm trying to understand uh sir Robertson 6 and 80. um at the moment it's on my sitting on my pad of things with an ad I can't say this is 85 or something does this need another working group last call should I formally return this document back to the working group to last call again do you think that's I I don't quite like the scope of the changes you sort of describe makes me think another last cause probably yeah that's what I would like I I think I think it needs to to go through a working group uh uh consensus call of some kind you can call it a working group last call this might be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "the third one or is that the other is that the other document we returned um but we have to come back to the working group with this so so that if you go look on the data tracker you will see the diffs because I posted a new version okay but if you go look in the GitHub you'll see there's three stacked pull requests uh that make all these changes so um if you want to come back and see exactly what the changes are they're there in the GitHub um and you could we can Wordsmith them or whatever you someone wants to do that way but I didn't feel that it was right to merge it until uh you know the working group had a comment but on the other hand you can just go look at the document and you'll see the the diff you know makes it very clear uh what's going on uh for that so yeah can I jump into on behalf of the old community that still likes to have draft versions and rfcdef and everything just merge the bloody thing put out a new version I did that so I I put out the new version from the branch okay so you get both you get the RFC diff and you get the GitHub so you have them both you can you can you can look at either way to see how it works and and that's why I did that way yeah okay but so from the process I'll return it back to the working group looking at the chairs you're happy for me to do that yeah okay thank you and and I I would appreciate chairs if if you establish if you did this quickly and we I would like to get this off of our plate um you know before people disappear into Christmas eggnog or whatever so uh is there any good marketing for this other than we kind of got derailed into this because we started using Co-op Discovery and then we got all these Co-op experts and they wanted us to do co-op headers and now it's just two bytes but is there any other benefit uh we we are reusing so if we assume that the uh join proxy is in fact an iot device that otherwise speaks co-app"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "that we've just removed a bunch of bespoke custom code and we're now using the common Co-op code so I that might actually represent a code savings but particularly the join code is there the join proxy code is code that probably doesn't run that often and therefore probably doesn't get very many eyes looking at it whereas the co-op code that you would use is hopefully code that if you break you break your device so presumably that means that the this code is going to be much more um you better maintained is what I'm trying to say right so um the other thing I'll say is that so Panos is one of the co-authors and he's still around he's still doing cfrg stuff he doesn't have a lot of Cycles for this but Peter has really declared himself as really really retired so I'm the only author standing so um uh please please your comments will be welcome yep let's go yeah let's go Dyke um yeah I agree with what you said about Co-op so you kind of uh reuse a code base that is presumably already going to be on the device yeah that's the idea the constrained device um yeah one thing is that it does have some impact on the behavior of uh especially the forwarding so with the old protocol basically the yeah the message was sent towards the Registrar on a specific port and then nothing happened but with Co-op you basically if you send something it's in the form of a request and a request gets a response normally so they're suddenly in this extra message response that we have this I think we said it's non-confirmable yeah that's right but you still get to response so it's not an acknowledgment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "about every request also gets a response so even the non-confirmable ones but the good news is you can suppress it so you basically the server side could decide to just like generate the response and throw it away immediately like hey it was lost and that's that's kind of allowed in non-confirmable Co-op so that's something we could do but it is uh something to address I think to to look at that we don't want that 2.04 response message uh coming back because it care it has no value in our case I think so so um I thought we got it right in RFC 9031 that there isn't a response um you're telling me different so um um I'll go back and review the two things and I may ask you to confirm my understanding at that point yeah so yeah the thing is with with Co-op if you have confirmable uh then you will get an acknowledgment to the message and usually the acknowledgment and the response are combined in one so it's the most efficient way um but if you do not have the acknowledgment you can still get the response so that's right but the good news is that the server can basically suppress or throw away the response and the client won't bother because it's not waiting for the response anymore I see Marco back there who might be an expert she's looking he's looking like no um so we so 90 31 said confirmable and I just copy and pasted that but that sounds wrong now if it's confirmable probably should be non-confirmable um the idea is that if if something gets lost in uh yeah the dtls for example there will be already a re-transmission happening yeah by the clients uh in the dtlash stack or by the server yeah so that's right the Pledge is going to re-transmit himself so there's no point in the proxy retransmitting that would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "be silly yeah so it's non-confirmable that's fine I think that's a good way to do it but um you still get this normally this thing with Co-op that it also generates a response if you have a request right could be suppressed as well but it's an explicit thing you have to specify I think uh okay so I hope the note taker has that but I'll I'll get yeah I'll also try to remember it outside and Marco we think that the proxy scheme is unnecessary did you did you see that message you agree yeah and Rob Marco I haven't seen that message specifically just back in Esco yeah if you send a confirmable request you expect not back not necessarily a response yeah so there's another way to say I want to response back from you that can come or not depends on the application okay so Rob Wilson just going to Echo in the comments that um tell us made it earlier that this and this worker is called across smaller numbers of people and I think there's a couple of documents here that haven't had that many reviews in this one so uh you're now the only author so it's just a working group if they want to get these documents to sort of make progress it needs more sort of cross review from other people so yeah I really encourage people who are working in this stuff in this working group to try and cross review each other's work uh because otherwise when it gets to the isg in those other reviews it gets slowed down to get a lot more comments the more you get done the working groups the easier the path is later on yep absolutely okay I'm done okay all right then I think we're up to an autonomic mechanism for resource based Network Services Auto deployment uh the authors have done an update since itf114 and I think Sheng will want to give the presentation Curtis you need to stop your sharing so I can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:19",
    "text": "okay I'll see my screen yes yes that's full screen now okay this is the update for the working group draft network service option economic deployment actually we already changed the title a little bit foreign a couple of new words um one is the generic to emphasize the generalization of this mechanism beyond the quality translation services and we add another word management to emphasize the dynamical autonomic management besides the autonomical deployment at the beginning of the services uh this time we actually already largely rewrite the description text without changing the document structure and the purpose of this document we update the out deployment and management process of the quality Network transmission services we also check the resource management manager objects and updates the contents without the two new subfields under it and also their registry tables with initial value for Anna consideration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "and also some editorial changes um they all those weird words are newly added let's draft to the introduce uh enhanced and extensible mechanism that suppose dynamically and dispatching of network resources as we said we emphasize the generalization of this mechanism in previous versions the draft many consider a transition service but the mechanism is oriented to more General Services deployment and dynamical management um this mechanism is generic for most resource-based network service it can be easily extended to support many Network Services scenario including but not limited difference Transmission Service in-network cache or storage Services Computing Services Information Services however those services are only listed in this document the detailed supports for those services are out of scope for this single document as we said it can easily be extended in future work but probably another documents will update the art deployment process we change the one step discover the ASA to into a two-step"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "Discovery process it can discover the relevant nodes first then discover the resource manager ASA on those nodes of course it can combine a bike as one step when they they are actually deployment uh in the autonomical networks it's the deployment choice we also add new step for check the authentication of the service initiator and the authorization for the operation on resources in principle any operations and resource must be authorized um the server service responsor should check the authentication of the service initiate and the authorization information and however this document assumes all autonomic nodes within the automation Network domain have been authenticated and their request operation are authorized giving the prayer condition the sap and risky hence provides this secure environment um we also add a new step to emphasize the releasing of resources it must be done during the service ending the search ending could be lifetime out or the service initiator notification"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "um to generalize the the purpose of also the resource manager so we actually update the grasp objective um we use new parameters to identify our service service type and service ID we also added the service lifetime they describing the expression has been revealed by brand Capital the format has been modified based on brass comments and we'll update in the next version which is we have done yet we are planning to do another updates after this meeting yeah now with all these comments we receive this meeting and in two weeks time I guess uh uh we both updates the process of the quality Network transmission service automatic deployment the service initiator discover up service pass because normally this transmission service is from a source to a destination which pass many Network nodes but they are owing a pass so the task should be discovered first then the service initiator know all those nodes the resource manager is on the service initiator negotiates the resources with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "the okay resource manager Asus and the service responsors one by one but it normally a specific network service should have only one service initiator within a autonomical network domain I mean for specific network service it's the service initiators responsibility to match the service and coordination coordinate along multiple service responses to ensure the consistent of reserved resources after the negotiation the SE the resource manager is a service responses also on the service initiator reserves the local resources those resources can be dynamically changed we have that description in the document here we also give a example of negotiation process those numbers are actually um yeah we're as we said we add two new uh subfields uh service type with two initial value um missing four bits is enough for those different service type um because that can can give us 16. uh the resource type for now we have the batteries Q memory priority cache Computing um for now we think four bits given the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "16 value space is big enough but if experts will need more space reserved space like eight bits we are happy to change that yeah last slides The Next Step um welcome to the comments contributions reviews um as uh Warren said Robert said we always look for reviews so all kinds of reviews are welcome we will continue to refine the contents we also have a implementation plan using patient hopefully we could download by the end of this year so that's one and a half months time um we are targeting for working group last call after next IDF Wellness X by the way Michael Rich your successful successfully confused me because this meeting is 115 and next is 116 right okay that's all from me thank you any comments or questions see if there's anyone please go ahead it's codec here um I had one question yeah just wondering about the overall security model since the driver mentioned that all uh initiators for example have to be authenticated and it also says that they are authenticated at the moment that they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "join this uh yeah basically uh ACP I think it's called right or the autonomous Network management plane basically um yeah maybe I missed that part of the working groupies there's some some common assumption that okay once the device gets kind of onboarded onto the management plane you can just you know stay authenticated for the rest of the lifetime or or do we need some additional uh protection and to to verify that this message was actually coming from who it was coming and that it was uh genuinely coming from that device so that's more like a general question on the security model uh I think yeah we have the sap experts and brisky is experts on site there it is Michael yeah I I think that if we rely on the ACP then um all the communications that you're doing through the ACP um will have effectively you know your authentication on The Binding of the IP address to the certificate and if you would be using um you know just brewski without the ACP and you have the connectivity and you're doing this type of service enrollment then I think it would have to be through the uh um brewsky certificate in your end-to-end TLS connection as the Authentication that part I guess this document doesn't say because I don't think in general we've tried to figure out how to um you know suggest more lightweight service provisioning without the ACP but I think that would be the obvious way just do you have the connectivity as then the question but with the ACP um it is it is all derived from the Broski certificates um but then you also have the secured reliable connectivity okay so that's really tied to the certificate and TLS is what you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "saying uh in the in the most difficult case you're just you know authenticate the certificate mutually right TLS or quick or whatever you want yeah okay this kind of Independence this is this is basically written against the reference model in the reference model you have the ACP yeah okay yeah that's clear thank you yes thank you uh your questions are really valid um but actually it's out of this scope um we just noticed in this document say it has to at least must actually use the word must be authenticated and authorized but how to do that it's out of scope okay if there's no more question I'm done there is back to you sorry just taking notes for what we just talked about okay and then the next one would be the update on the jws voucher from Thomas yeah that's correct so us to share this slides [Music] and and vouchers yeah so hope you can see the slides so good afternoon this is a quick update to the jws and science vouchers draft so which is also running for several months already and so this update does not contain any uh yeah new content it's just about uh yeah restructuring or rewriting to make it ready for working group last call so um yeah what is it about so we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "specifying here another voucher format so in form of jws Json generic serialization So based on I would see 75 15 and so there are no young changes and yeah I said for from previous version zero four to zero five now we have updated examples in the appendix we have a yeah yeah big restructuring and section three uh so also the Prototype objects and figures are updated and some editorial improvements to the whole document what else uh yeah of course we have a PLC implementation for that also together with Broski PRM which Stephen will report later we have implemented this voucher approach and format and we would be happy for interop testing with other parties for sure unfortunately still a Shepherd is missing so would be also good if they are somebody would volunteer and last point is so the authors agreed so that uh this document is now ready for working group last call and we would bring it in the next step here and that's it I think now that's all from my side any questions uh thank you um yeah any questions in the room see anything um this this jws right so I mean this this is a something where what you um find some you know good additional"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "reviewers from the application area that is that is dealing with these jws things normally there is anything like you know an a review from App area or so uh specifically for that jws context I'm just you know thinking about the experience we made with the co-op folks that you know during Ayanna review that tell us how to use their headers better so are there where do these jws people hang out in so far is getting a review from them working before so um so maybe one option would be to ask the author authors of the jws out of C and so what is it which working group did jws um looking and objects oh no I meant the jws format is not from us right right so who did the jws format Jose working group yeah Jose right so would it make sense to to uh to send a request for for review to the Jose working group here no I think it's a good idea sure if you can do that yourself that that would be best otherwise let me know and and I'll be happy to support that and ask the working group chairs as well yeah I I reach out to them thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "thank you Okay so then we have the update of brewski with the pledge and responder mode brewski PRM and that would be Stefan told us I I just requested the slides okay so I would like to give an update about uh rusky with splatron responder mode test uh Thomas already said uh so we are in version 05 now and uh there is a repository available online working group GitHub and uh we tracked the issues there and there's all there are also the latest uh now the the latest source of the document is there uh what we have referenced here that's also a reference that we provide in brewski PRM is the general architecture or an abstract protocol overview about the architecture uh so just to recap what what rusky PRM is doing differently compared to brewski rusky PRM essentially reverses the direction for client and server between the pledge and the registrar agent the registrar and is doing that by introducing a new functionality which we call registrar agent the registration itself may be a standalone component or a separate component or it may be part of the functionality of the of the domain registrar so what you can see here are the different messages that we defined as part of the the brewski PRM draft so it's essentially triggering the pledge to perform certain actions like creating a voucher request or creating"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "an enrollment request and then the registrar gets back to the to the the registrar agent gets back to the to the registrar and uh does the interaction with the back-end infrastructure in the name of the pledge so here uh nothing nothing really has changed we have some some further tweaks down here which I will come to at the next slide so you see that there is some exchange between the registrar agent and the domain registrar further into the backend infrastructure and once this is done all the different objects that have been collected by the registrar agent so that means a voucher and also the the enrollment response essentially the certificate and also the ca certificates are provided to the pledge and the pledge can consume all those data objects and uh can then operate in the Target domain so just as a as an abstract protocol view we don't have that picture directly in the draft because it's all somehow too complicated to to put it directly into the draft but we have it as a reference so what has changed from last version to this version We meanwhile had a couple of reviews so in summary we have seven different reviewers uh which are not all of them are stated yet in the in the draft so that is one thing I I still have on the table to to put the names uh of the reviews in there the review led to several uh technical clarifications to some enhancements uh all of them are listed in the GitHub so that means that we have issues for each of the different things and we address or for each of the different comments and we address all of those comments so specifically uh we have uh included as mandatory now a signature on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "voucher so that means once a voucher has been issued by the Maza and comes back to the through the registrar and through the register agent down to the to the pledge the registrar in between has to provide a medicinal signature on the on the voucher so that additional signature provides a proof of possession of the private key where the pledge has seen the the certificate so that means the public key uh during the triggering uh of the of the registration at the beginning and that additional signature is some kind of uh yeah explicit authorization store the vote from one hand and on the other that terminates the professional except from the on the pledge side of the registrar certificate so that has been discussed in the design team and also been included in the in the document now so we also defined a new endpoint for pledge bootstrapping status inquiry so we had already status messages in the same way as they were defined in brewski so that means we had a status message for that that we provided from The Pledge back to the registrar agent once a voucher has been supplied and also once a enrollment response so the certificate has been replied there was some requests to provide an additional specific endpoint to inquire the status of the The Pledge uh in in case that for instance a service technician is stepping by and may not know if the pledge has been bootstrapped already or if the pledge is in some kind of intermediate state of bootstrapping uh so for this uh the endpoint and also the messages and the error codes have been defined regarding error codes we have some uh thanks to ESCO we had some some more integration of error code search more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "fine-grained or to enable them or fine-grained handling of arrows that may happen during the bootstrapping we put in some some clarification regarding the knowledge of the marzers that is necessary for verifying the ldf ID that comes in the voucher request from The Pledge so the lfid from the registrar agent and also the lfid from the registrar so we we require meanwhile that they have to be under the same administrative control so that means that another needs to process a corresponding issuing or root certificates already to be able to verify the different data pieces in the voucher request and based on that issue assertion or an agent proximity so then we enhance the security consideration so there were some questions regarding potential uh Tech scenarios and they have been clarified and also the Privacy configurations have been enhanced for last Point regarding the enhancements here is the registrar agent certificate we had that in the pledge trigger as optional component included and we decided to basically drop that because it's being provided in the registrar created voucher request where the pledge voucher request is part of that register Auto request and we would we we saw that uh because it's optional from from The Pledge side it is uh it it complicates the handling so we would like to have some simplification there and uh to also save bandwidth between the pledge and the registrar agent so those were merely the technical points that have been addressed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "and uh then we had some further clarifications and editorial improvements and they relate to a lot of terminology uh like enrollment objects certification object so we aligned that type of terminology uh we also clarified that the combined pledge may act as server and client for for further re-enrollment cases so there may be cases where a pledge supports both ways through push and pull for the enrollment into a new domain uh we also clarified that the registrar needs to verify the response messages that that uh come from The Pledge and match them to the audit logs that he gets from the Mazda also in during the bootstrapping phase so that is uh there is no no deviation uh to brewski it's more or less emphasizing that this is a requirement on the registrar uh we also clarified that the pledge user created on time from the Dutch vulture request trigger object that he gets from the registrar agent in the cases where there has been no time synchronization uh been done before then we also removed the reference to the cap Forum that was not needed anymore so uh we we basically dropped that reference um then regarding the general structure of the document we completely restructured Section 5 to make it better readable and to better have a red line throughout the document so I hope that that simplifies the the reading of the document and in that context we also reword all the different prototypes that we had in the different sections there for the prototypes itself we now have an appendix that lists different examples for the for the objects that we have and also includes size information that was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "one of the issues or one of the points that has been raised because we one intention of boost kprm is also to allow for different transport means between the pledge and the registrar so that means we don't necessarily rely on protocols like like TLS or TCP since we have the security handling on the objects itself and in certain scenarios we can utilize the brewski PRM approach based on Bluetooth for instance Bluetooth slow energy and for this it is interesting to also list some message sizes in the appendix okay so far for the for the update from the o4 version to o5 I set the the discussion on the different issues is is available on the animal site so uh the the remaining the only remaining open Point that's not a remaining open point for for booski PRM Standalone but for all the different documents that Define vouchers there is some definition or some clarification ongoing on the young usage there that relates to augmentation of the young documents that we have there to enable uh the combination of different drafts that we currently have that relate to the voucher handling so that is an issue that Michael took over and uh that basically needs to be applied to all of the different anima documents defining vouchers then as as Thomas already said we have uh since we are utilizing the jws voucher uh heavily within Broski PRM so the the jws format approach um we we have a proof of concept for for the implementation available that's available for all of the different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "components if there is interest to do interop testing please get in touch uh the the addresses the contacts are available on the first uh slide uh as in the last working group uh meetings the document Shepherd is still needed for the document and here we are in the same situation as for jws voucher uh from the answers perspective we after the the review of seven different persons uh we now have addressed all the different issues uh except the first one so besides that the authors agreed that the document is ready for working group last call so that would also end my my information or my update about boost key PRN any questions yeah thank you very much um let me see if there are any other questions um so if the open issue is is clear in the document um somehow then I think before we go to working group last call maybe we want to consider an early review from um I guess there is a Yang usage right so the young doctors um and uh so we do we think that the security aspects are relevant to us for early Security review I mean we've I think the the best feedback we've we've gotten in the other reviews was always iot deer security and yang right and your opinions because then I think I could simply trigger those first yeah I think it would be good to have uh to have some Security review as early review I think that that's probably fine uh the the person said that the review so far were all experienced regarding security but I think it's good to to have already the first review from from the security Community there regarding the young doctors we we had an early"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "review which uh from The Young doctors at the very early stage of the document uh since then the voucher itself hasn't changed much and I think we should do that once we have the clarification on the young usage uh to avoid any problems with augmentation of the voucher okay so this is this is not ready yet the the end is the open issue the youngness the open issue right okay okay okay I'll trigger the two early reviews what's the plan to get the uh these Yang issues resolved it seems to be for the the augmentation stuff who's who's leading that whom are you waiting for I guess Michael yep I'm not quite sure if Michael's still in the room yep he's uh perfect nice pants by the way yeah I'm dressed for the dance meeting um there's other reasons um uh yeah so the augmentation so he'll go go back to the beginning I just looked at my inbox uh beginning of August to the mailing list I posted the Lost efforts um and uh Jan lindblade told me how I did it wrong and uh I just need to repeat that and I was just trying to figure out whether I can do that tomorrow afternoon um whether I'm weak enough and um so we'll get that I'll get that cleared out I said I'd get that cleared out for this meeting and I think we can we can do that um the the big concern is that that we got something wrong in 8366 and we have to revise that that's the big the big worry um is that we can't combine things and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "if you go back to that document or that emails and that thread if I can post repost it or I will repost it tomorrow then you'll understand what I'm thinking about right um so I know that Stefan you have it it's just really for the rest of the other people um we just need to do the simplest stupidest experiment of combining things from different places and see that we can do it and that we didn't make a uh we didn't do the Yang wrong and from what I the feedback I got is that we maybe need to do it slightly differently so we'll see um someone had was behind me oh oh okay that guy just disappeared all right I thought he was getting the mic thanks all right any other business on Broski PRM and once going twice and Slot number seven update on brewski alternative enrollment that would be David right can you hear me yep great could you share the slides please um I can try to do my very best great yeah so today I'm going to to give an update on brewski AE uh the changes between version two and three um next slide please as you recall whose GE is invariant um of brewski that uses an alternative protocol in rather than EST so what you see in the orange dot marked box is any certificate enrollment protocol um that has self-contained signed objects but a requests which then supports end-to-end security for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "certification requests and there's good news on the document because now we have two more reviews actually three uh one was removed internal the other one was by Michael and another one was by a Shepherd or less I'm very glad that we have these reviews in place now and this gave valuable feedback which I uh and the other co-au authors um implemented um in the text so we did several um editorial changes and also clarified various um uh requirements which were kind of implicit so nothing surprising but still good to uh to state them clearly and I can best show this at the picture itself namely on the left hand side you can see the messages going from pledge to the registrar and on this channel we of course reuse the existing TLS Channel um and what we didn't mention so far is that the enrollment protocol that is being used here of course needs to support this so it must be a protocol that can be piggybacked or yeah on the on an existing TLS Channel um another clarification was that the same protocol of course the Roman protocol needs to be used between the pledge and the registrar and then also onwards to the ra if it's elsewhere outside um the local domain so of course we need to use the same protocol in order to have the end-to-end property that we are after and another pretty obvious thing is of course that register needs to support at least one such enrollment protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "um with a self-signed objects for the requests and the first fourth thing was yeah that the registrar itself May um already do part of the of the domain of the registration Authority if um functionality or it may delegate part of this or all of this to an upstream array component which is somewhere else in the pki so the brewskae has a better flexibility there registration Authority functionality is provided yeah I think now we can switch to the next slide I already mentioned the various clarifications um that we did in the document and here I only wanted to mention that we did quite a number of small editorial improvements for instance on the comparison between plain brewski and brewski um also a better differentiation of the various flavors of Ras for example local Ras and register and pki side Ras in the back end and a better description of offline message transfer versus synchronous with the transfer and so on so not really a big technical issues but just for better readability some various improvements and one further thing that happened in the meantime is um I reached again out again to Elliot Lear about his uh contribution of EST full CMC and it turned out that he simply doesn't have time to follow up on this and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "apparently the interest also diminished somehow um so we agreed that he would drop off as a co-author and now he's listed as a contributor um and we have left out the details of EST full CMC which were anyway not finished at all um so the focus of the document is meanwhile that is CMP instantiation but of course we do mention that there is the possibility to plug in other certificate enrollment protocols that also offer the self-signed and not the sales entities designed self-contained request objects for getting the end-to-end property here and now I think we can go to the next to the last slide so um to sum up um all open points that have been open recently have been resolved meanwhile there is a POC implementation we have the decision on to remove the EST full CMC flavor instantiation of risky AE and we have we got a working group review by Michael and we got the Chevrolet review by tallest and though we will leave the document is now ready to work in group last call okay as far as that was my presentation and do you have comments on this or questions now about the last call yeah I think the typical thing in terms of any earlier reviews that we would like to do security for example um not sure if if that should be done or in parallel or before working group last call but I think we could as well um unless there are opposing opinions uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "start uh working group last call with this one I mean at least from the shepherd's side I'm fine with that but uh thank you I'll discuss with Shang um on the share side thanks okay um great so where are we um I think we're at the end of uh the working group draft I think Michael was saying that he would like to have some minutes on um the the hackathon which I consider to be somewhat related to working group so I wanted to make sure that we spent the time first on that one um so what I want to talk about was the hackathon VPN which um brewski implementers have tried to use over two years I don't know if we ever got it ever working I know Peter tried and I tried and it worked for a while so I had um a couple meetings with uh Charles eckel um the hackathon guy and we then met with the ietf knock um and they would love to do all sorts of things for us um and um but the choices we just like it to work um but but essentially what's going to happen is that if you have or want to buy like it's a 20 Euro 20 Microtech Rider the smallest one they have will run the lttp stuff and then you wind up with a a Wi-Fi and an Ethernet which is essentially layer 2 bridged to the hackathon network at which point you can plug in whatever physical devices or thread gateways that you want um and they said that we might even we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "probably can have DHCP V6 prefix delegation as well so you get a prefix for your 802.154 network um the caveat is that um it probably won't work for about 10 days before each ietf as they take their equipment out of the rack and ship it to the ITF and for about 10 days after the ITF so it will actually probably work I think they said it will work well the itf's going on which is maybe less interesting for remote people who are physically present right so but between ietfs we can have a network that we can do things and we can do all of the mdns grasp Etc type discoveries because it's a layer 2 Network that we want to be able to test so I think that's really all I wanted to say I don't have a start date for it I presume it'll just start working on mines up and running what happens is that when you don't when their equipment is being shipped you wind up with uh you wind up with a VPN that appears to be up but it's not connected to anything right and so I presume sometime in in a week or so in uh 10 days or so it'll just start working again as they say they'll turn it back on and they've considered other ways of doing this um including the possibility that during ietf week we would be able to just essentially turn on anything anywhere and we'd be able to get onto that Network and it would work I don't think that was as important because I think we're almost all too busy to uh during the week to actually do any work um it's afterwards so I just wanted to let the recruit the group know this and I mean I had a Raspberry Pi is what the previous generation of it was that was harder to use and uh although I had some reservations about GPL compliance of Microtech routers I was happy to just pay 20 some units for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "a tiny little device that just seemed to work so that was it okay thank you so is uh is Roland in the room yeah so I'm happy to revert our slots because uh I I don't have high priority and Reviving my drafts I put them on the agenda but let's go first with the yokira uh thing yeah I asked for the controller so if you present your slides give me a second so I'm Ron bless from kit and yeah this is Joint work with Machina Zoran Arturo so I'd like to introduce briefly skira Kira which is a scalable ID based routing architecture for control plane so quite a nice fit for anima here I think and its name is uh comes from kademia directed ID based routing architecture I don't have the control okay so what Kira aims at is interconnecting large pool of network resources being compute storage Network what have you it provides a resilient connectivity for the control plane so that the controllers like sdn controllers that control our sdn switches um Can exert their control uh and we also since we are ID based we provide stable addresses for moving resources like virtual machines that move or drones whatever you next slide so what it provides is massive scalability so we scale to 100 thousands of nodes uh it is zero touch requires no configuration um it is quite fast in conversions it's Loop free even during convergence which is also nice for robustness uh it is um works well in many different topologies"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "so we call this topological versatility so instead of having specialized variants for let's say denser data center topologies we we don't need that so um and we also aim for efficient routes but connectivity is first so to say so there's this related work for sure but they either like one or the other property and for example Ripple here um uh which would cause traffic concentration near the route and it's probably not really zero touch since you always have to say what's the root node I mean so uh next slide please yeah so um the main concept is that we have two tiers one is the routing tier where the routing protocol lives which we call Art you cat and the other one is the forward interior so the routing tier uh provides uh uses ID based addresses and it uses Source routes and works on top of any link layer um while the forward interior can be seen as some kind of optimization so we try to get rid of source routing due to the overhead and the path ID based forwarding is some kind of label switching approach that simply reduces overhead next slide please so I will talk briefly about um r2cap next slide so the main idea is that we need some kind of path Discovery so in order to find path through our Network since we're unknown environments and so here we have a simple topology consisting of the the white node uh white bullets here and the white dots so this is a link layer topology and each node simply um creates randomly a node ID which can be seen as the the uppercase letters in the the blue dots here in the blue circles so um moreover every node learns it's through a vicinity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "um so for example here x learns the contacts which we call them um the circle also calls in Academia this way a y b and M next slide please so uh now how can XR learn a path to Z so the approach is basically to construct underlay routes by using the node ID based Olay so the source route to the context that is the closest to the destination already is simply used as next top and if we mention closeness we need some kind of metric that shows us what is close to each other and we are using the Excel metric from cademia for that so that boils down basically to if into in case two nodes have a longer share prefix than they are closer to each other next slide please so in that case here for example if we assume simply for Simplicity that letters here close on the alphabet also resemble a closer node IDs then the next overlay hop for X would be y um since it's in the true opacity and we assume so we we know that we can reach y via a and so we assume that y n O's Z Already send then y will forward the packet while Source row to Z um so in order to find a path we usually send so-called find node requests out and so here the final request that that eventually arrives at Z will record the complete route that the pagal travels um and this naturally incurs some path stretch so that it's not necessarily the shortest route and also here it contains a cycle but we can get rid of the cycle so next slide please so the answer picket usually eliminates already that cycle um and later Breakers can even do better so in the sense that x no is a shorter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "route to M so it can take a shortcut so that reduces stretch and in case you have or I can't afford to have stayed for later packets then you can achieve lower stretch release moreover archicad offers a flexible memory stretch Trader of uh due to its routing table design the next slide please so the routing table is basically the same as in Academia so it's arranged by the xor distance so we have buckets of fixed sizes um usually of a small number okay equals 20 or 40 so that's a the bucket size limit and the bucket um the bucket here and the the topmost bucket here the the gray one that contains the context G for example that that holds all the contacts from half of the ID space which could be quite large uh and in that case uh that that the the ID was overlay needs always to uh or is based on the property that you know your ID wise neighbors uh there's a certain strategy that causes buckets to split once they're full in case um they are in your uh ID wise vicinity so lower buckets usually contain your ID wise neighborhood so next slide please so what we do now in addition to that is that we call the Discover path as path vectors for each contact and we can do so in a way that we prefer always shorter routes um and that leads to efficiently learning the shortest path to the context uh the size of the buckets is choosable so per on a per node basis so in case your node can afford more memory then you can have thousands of entries in your routing table so that achieves that flexible memory stretch trade-off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "and basically we scale logarithmically with a number of nodes next slide please so with respect to Dynamics um we assume that we have some kind of detection of node link Theory and the underlay and then we have it performing a two-step strategy the first one is that we inform the ID wise Neighbors about the Fate link here for example X informs Y and Z about the failing next slide please and so the second step is to ReDiscover a alternative path via the Ola strategy that I just explained but this time including a not via information telling other nodes that may not hurt over the broken link that they cannot use path that contain the broken link and furthermore periodically uh since it's not guaranteed that the routing updates or that information about the broken linger spread over the all nodes that need that information um you just checked regularly uh whether the path to your contacts work and you also have to look up your own node ID in order to keep the overlay together and to detect Network partitioning for example and we ensure the validity of the routing information by using State sequence numbers and also path information ages next slide please um yeah so briefly uh what's it about the the path ID based forwarding uh next slide please so there are many backup slides don't worry and so the forwarding tier now tries to get rid of the source router for the control plane packet so in case we want to ask this H to our router Kira provides the connectivity but we don't want have Source ordering for us this Edge packets just to get to the router so the the approach here is to replace the source routes with so-called path IDs and the path ID basically is just the hash of the node IDs uh the source route and so the path ID is used as labor for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "the source route and then basically we do some label switching between the nodes um and the the reason why we need the two of the physical vicinity which isn't actually required for the routing protocol safe but here for the path ID forwarding it's nice because we can pre-calculate uh the path ID is um in the true hope vicinity the physical vicinity and so we only need path setup for pop that are longer than Force next slide please so we implemented a thing and showed that it works on top of IPv6 packet format so we just provide IPv6 connectivity out of nowhere so to say with Kira and then the data packets can use the faster forwarding in the forwarding tier which requires a node ID based forwarding table and a path ID based forwarding table and in order to use path IDs in addition to the node IDs we simply use GAA encapsulation so there's one additional header for that path that you based forwarding in the current scheme and so your control plane app if it's able to talk IPv6 then it runs simply or Kira next slide please yeah we simulated that because I claimed that it's highly scalable with 100 000 of nodes and so on so here are the details we tested in various topologies next slide please so this slide shows its performance in various topologies of site of 10 000 nodes and what you can see here is that for example the average multiplicative stretch along the y-axis one of the different topologies are along the x-axis and the first packet stretch for the first packets that we need for pop Discovery is uh are the Green Dots here and you can see that it's even lower"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "than the ACP variant of Ripple uh so we're not doing the so bad even while we're doing overlay based routing more or less and also the blue triangles here are showing that the pay the thresh for the later crickets can be even lower and the really nice thing is that in all topologies we learned the shortest path to all the contexts that we know so you always have shortest path in your own routing table but in order to get to other nodes that you don't know you have to at least um have some stretch right so next piece yeah and dynamic wise we are also doing quite well so in 100 000 topology uh when 15 of 15 or the links fail randomly and simultaneously which is quite a large outage I would say you see that it's able to get back to nearly 100 delivery ratio for the control packets and also then for the data packets a little bit later uh within 10 seconds roughly and the overhead is small so we're not flooding right so due to the small size routing tables we can do quite well with the overhead of the the whole protocol so we have here nearly 80 packets in average per node per second that is sent in that kind of failure next um next slide please yeah sir uh that concludes uh already uh my talk um sorry there are more backup slides in case you're interested there will be a site meeting today so at seven in lesson 9 12 here there's a small room uh so Kira is actually designed for large provided domains uh it's could be a replacement here for ripple in the ACP but we're not standardized yet so the idea is to start that off here so I have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "to to write internet drafts and design packet formats uh here and and so on um Ripple was designed for iot so QR was not designed for IIT in mind but for fixed networks basically but I guess we can tweak also to that we simply use Link local addresses as I said so that can be used out of the box in that sense the nice thing is that it offers more it offers integrated DHT for simple name resolution services and Discovery and that could lead to a more efficient and simplified Discovery than with grass when you do with your graph it also supports multi-path routing and forwarding due to the path IDs for example and it also supports scalable and efficient topology Discovery so you within five seconds you can basically discover 100 000 nodes topologies with nearly 100 of all the links in five seconds so that's kind of amazing yeah uh that's that's it thank you very much um any uh questions Michael thank you for this presentation so is it your goal you're having a side meeting or do you think you're gonna from a working group or what's going to happen with that yeah I mean yeah there's I I want to just see whether there's interest what people think about it whether it's useful uh I think for future networks we need some kind of robust control plane connectivity um because you you know that that people misconfigured bgp at meta and then they lock themselves out of their own control plane that is impossible with gear in that sense in case you have physical connectivity you will get there right um and so that's really a robust way for your control playing connectivity um so yeah the idea is maybe I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "know if if I think I have to to write IDs first and then maybe next time we can have a buff official buff I don't know so so um but it's not you sorry it's not useful unless you have key run all your resources so that's of course of course we need to standardize it okay so so um so we've had two thoughts one one was that so ACP you know is intended to run over secure overlay we're using you know point to point out every sec um one of the you know one of the pathologies um when we have Layer Two connectivity that doesn't participate uh in the ACB excuse me um one of the pathologies is we formed too many too many adjacencies right if you have a layer two switch that connects a bunch of layer three things is that you wind up with this mesh and it's silly right because you just don't need everything um on the other hand if you have actual real you know devices separated by cities and stuff then the connectivity really makes sense and you you have you have the right things um but despite that what we don't have in Ripple um at this time is any kind of reasonable uh origin authentication so we have all the security we have we know which node has which uh i p address we even have certificates with that attest to that but a routing protocol actually makes no use of that fact to to make sure that our our control plane does hasn't part of it hasn't gone bad and it's not just a to my mind a question of a defense against maliciousness but it's a defense against as he said Facebook or Rogers in Canada had a worse meltdown on July 8th um they didn't just Knock Lock themselves out of data centers they they just posted their entire control plane to the point where they couldn't even phone each other up yeah say go fix it because their phones didn't work right um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "uh but you know it would be nice if that was also if that security was also providing for defense against misconfiguration and um so that's something I would really be excited to about the other part I wanted to win is it sounds to me like we could run Ripple and Kira at the same time now we don't have a big installed base of of ACP but imagine if we did right that finding those those cross links and not going through as you said going through the knock uh would be an interesting thing well you know I mean I don't know maybe some synergies here that make that makes it worthwhile or maybe a stupid thing to do just wasting more time um but anyway it's a thought that you know that I had yeah just two thoughts from my side one one is um Cura is a nice property that it naturally thins out very dense topologies and the other one is we we didn't consider security right now but you naturally can use node IDs out of a hash over your public keys so that you have self-certifying identifiers and since we're using path vectors we can do any sort of having interrogatory protection for our routes right yeah it's it's not the Integrity we have that part it's the this route really did originate from the that node right that's that's the thing it's that so like you know right now we have you know uh uh in bgp right we have um um our pki but what we're missing is Route authentic origin authentication right and and and so that's the kind of thing that I'm saying it would be it would be interesting if if you could consider that from day one so that you know it's not a retrofit because everything else is a retro I know I know but we we need to get got this working first and then I think we can put on many security mechanisms if you want to yeah I have one question too um the uh what I was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "missing was a little bit better understanding the forwarding plane that you get ultimately right the the path vector and stuff that didn't sound like uh you're sending just a packet and hop by hop you have the forwarding State the routing table entries but it seemed like you're still carrying some path information in some packet header right uh so when you send a packet with path ID you basically have a GRE header that has the path ID as destination address and once your path is has ended then you can simply drop the GE header and use the node ID for regular forwarding okay so you have on one segment you have uh some okay Jerry is just one of your choice is the choice that you came up with yeah but you can use segment routing headers what have you so so that there are many encapsulation possibilities to encapsulate the power the GRE key as the the key is the uh path ID or which part of GRE yeah the the so you just put the as destination IP address the path ID and now you have a destination okay yeah right so okay and is there always only one such path element are you having multiple of them for example um yeah you can so the path ID concept is basically we are capable of using multiple path IDs you so you can do multi-path routing if you want to no no I'm saying that to get to a particular destination how many um you know steering points do you need across the network you're sending a package you're basically saying the the first address you're routing to is the end of that that path which which is known on the path segment yeah okay okay I see I see is here um yeah so so it depends on the on the topology so the larger your topology is the longer the uh the the higher the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "number of intermediate jobs that you need and that grows logarithmically with the size of the network typically uh this forwarding plane stuff would be good to highlight better in slides because that's uh yeah I know what we're looking into just it's fairly clear that by using Source routing and having you know an incremental set of source routes that help you to get closer to the destinations one of the cool ways on how we can achieve you know better than um what Ripple does but I think that's exactly the stuff that we want to review and what what also I think the forwarding planes that have this ability like mpls or srv6 or obviously Ripple has it in in its way too although they're using it differently right but all these Source routing headers might be exactly you know what what you need to interact with yeah so so we are currently trying to optimize a bit on the path ID forwarding uh requiring fewer entries in the intermediate hubs but we didn't so we have the concept but we didn't uh program it into the simulation so we want to have a better understanding how many following entries are actually required in the worst case uh and and that is I mean we're we are very scalable and the control plane of Kira itself so let's say about on the data plane for keyword we need to figure that out but it doesn't seem too bad so it's I think the worst case is square root of n so which is manageable usually by modern switches or routers right well I mean we're we're not in the routing area right so NMR so yeah kind of not well suited for for this but typically in the potential users everybody who had a really good uh routing idea got his own working group right so if you work hardwood yeah I know I know I know and then I have worked for at least five years more all right thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "okay I think we've reached the end of time uh Shane do you want to close it down yeah um we finish our working group document update we still don't have enough time for the non-working group documents including two from Terrace whatever we the first working place for IDF working group is the main list please do invoke the discussing email list that's all from today thanks for you all hopefully see you in Japan thank you bye-bye"
  }
]
