[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] yeah we\u0027re running a little bit it\u0027s been like I spent five minutes under your pillow Robert were running a little bit on the late side of things the room is in a hard place to find so we\u0027re gonna be starting a little delayed Oh get started a minute it\u0027s almost five after [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:29",
    "text": "okay let\u0027s us that is get started welcome to BFD i\u0027m jeff has Rashad is unable to co-chair for this session because he is unable to make it the Singapore a quick check can everybody hear me find through the microphone yes good somebody the back good yes thank you [Music] Shaw Amin has agreed to take notes so that I can pay attention to the session as you notice I have a few things operate here we have four sessions today you know covering this of course the guys on me screen okay so quick agenda we\u0027re going to go through a chairs update got to go through BFD 4vx LAN EFT for large packets both of these have been through we\u0027re can go at group last call and we were supposed to have a presentation on one-armed BFD is there one of the document authors in the room to present that okay thank you so document status BFD 4vx LAN had a working group last call it created a lot of discussion over 300 messages which is very unusual for DFT hopefully we got over the majority the the discussion I believe it is Greg that will actually be giving the presentation on the current status of things second item is we also try to work in group last calling VFD for large packets this actually prompted some discussion that had been stalled out and we need to get some revisions for that I\u0027ll be covering that without wearing my chairs had to uh for this purpose as part of working on BFD unsolicited a minor change was discovered to be needed made at the last second in the BFD yang module Rashad has asked the RFC editor for procedure for taking care of that and that should actually be in progress once we clear that point that will clear a yang dr. comment on the VFD unsolicited draft and I believe that will be finished with working group last call we have a little bit of an interesting situation for the VFD authentication documents it\u0027s a series of three of them one of them has IPR on them that has generated some discussion during IETF 105 you know we put forth to the group that we believe the documents are at this point in a technically viable and the complete standpoint no further technical commentary was given on them we also asked if they this working group would be willing to allow these to proceed it is perfectly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:30",
    "text": "allowable for IETF to have documents that have IPR in them the IPR holder in this case Siena noted that their IPR is no more restrictive than other IETF BFD IPR including my employer juniper who which is at IPR an RFC 58 84 BFD itself I spend a little bit time in the working group discussion there was a small amount of show for taking the documents forward it was not a huge list of the group so we have some small support I believe Greg\u0027s objections still stand so that\u0027s at least no one public no requests not to I\u0027ve been spending a little bit of a ITF trying to discuss with the people about our consensus process with regard to this the general outcome of that discussion is that the main consideration ITF has for intellectual property restrictions and documents is there implement ability so if the IPR would prevent somebody from actually being able to implement it that\u0027s the main consideration this sense that has been given from the intellectual property holders is that they would offer licensing for it and that it could be carried forward they declined to state to know whether if he may actually be judged though so implementations such as Linux which need to be open source and free may potentially be encumbered so this remains somewhat of an open discussion based on what my process discussions and then we have no weak but positive force to actually take the documents and submit them to RFC that we\u0027ll be spending the next several days concluding discussions with people is G and otherwise to see what the process looks like and I will take back to the mailing list what the process looks like for that the FT v2 and other extending DFT discussions the ITF 105 discussion was actually very positive we did have a number of people working on various timing things especially from the IPP I\u0027m a related group group documents they did that personally find PFD a good fit for encapsulating their stuff the general feel of the discussion had been to not overload BFD v1 which is you know gotten significant traction within the industry for providing connectivity verification and that you don\u0027t overload it make it more difficult for it to do its core job was there room to leverage BF PPD use and procedure which is the motivation we seem to be seeing for putting additional information in to BFD for different things including Oh a.m. "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:31",
    "text": "there seems to be some level of positive discussion on that I need to find a way to generate a discussion with enough of the isg to figure out how we want to target such a thing if at all because by expanding the scope of what it carries and who gets to use it we potentially have this work leaf BFD as being the working group we\u0027re effectively giving IETF a gift of a state machine and past that point how ITF chooses the use it is part of the Charter discussion martin did you care to say anything on this at this point or okay okay so well we\u0027ll continue this discussion with the IHG offline and hopefully we\u0027ll have some level of traction on this point now for the upcoming IETF 107 is Greg I think and the clicker as usual does not seem to be working okay so as Jeff explained this captures the updates that were applied from the last meeting to before this meeting resulting from addressing some of the Directorate comments and the discussion that we had from only with experts in vehicle and so the discussion were more related to VX LAN environment and what is allowed and how VX them is used rather than just to base B of the machinery one of the questions comments that we received in the working group or just past working group or school was the question of why and whether there was sufficient discussion of the working group of making the statement in the document that if the echo is outside the scope of this specification so the chairs made another call to the working group asking for consideration and comments and to the best of my recollection there were no comments so I believe that based on where the Cho\u0027s concluded that working group is agreeing with a statement that B of the echo is outside the scope so which means that if somebody wants to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:34",
    "text": "that there will be another specification but this specification does not address any aspects of using beef da commode over the excellent though yes technically that\u0027s pro that\u0027s possible because it\u0027s considered to be a single IP hop we had a lot of discussion on selection and use of destination mac in the inner Ethernet header and IP destination address in the inner encapsulation you know your IP header also we discussed their number of DVDs sessions between the pair of this two V tabs and what what is management via ni and how it can be used for BFD over the X line next so yes the destination MAC address question was raised in routing directorate review and it suggested that use of some MAC address is intrusion on tenants MAC address space and thus it\u0027s not allowed in the X lab but we did receive actually we had a proposal originally at some point is that to use allocated by Jana MAC address so since then in a discussion we decided now we leave this out we will move this from the document we formulated this following text and this is a quote from their current version of the document mr. nation Mac this must not be one of the tenants MAC addresses the destination MAC address may be the address associated with a destination V tab the MAC address may be configured or it may be learned the control plane protocol details of how the MAC address is obtained outside the scope of the document further and this discussion is not yet closed because we Furr recommend to use loopback one of the loopback IP addresses whether for ipv4 range or v6 and we leave MAC address for this destination IP address basically pointing to this text so we had a we have unresolved common proposal to use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:35",
    "text": "to define some default MAC address that will be used if the destination IP addresses it look back in my opinion and I talked with Santosh about it so like an active editors of the draft that it still goes back to the dedicated MAC address even to the more limited scope applicability so which probably we don\u0027t want to do yes problems some implementations of VX LAN that look only at their destination MAC address of an inner header and then might not look an IT payload there might be a problem so I heard from the author of this proposal that he is okay with the current text so in my opinion this proposal still stands and I think that it\u0027s up to the working group to decide how to handle it further so what we are stating is and again this quote from the current version we thought must validate the packet in the destination mac a of the inner internet frame matches one of the MAC addresses associated with the Vita the packet must be processed further if the destination MAC of the inner Ethernet frame does not match of the he taps MAC addresses then the processing of the receive a excellent packet must follow the procedures described in a vehicle and RFC if the B of this session is using the management vni and we have discussion in a section 6 a Big D control packet with unknown MAC address might not be must not before we go to VM because just it\u0027s not bomb procedure I think that there is agreement with this text there is no common statistics okay next please now on IP address because we had a lot of good input from people from you know with existing implementations of the FD over VX LAN the following statement users should not must even though elders of the document were quite inclined to use must here so you can see it says should use one of the loopback I knew that will happen should will use one of the loop addresses and again that is because we were told that there are implementations that hard-coded using different than that and will not told "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:38",
    "text": "that they can be configured for something else so Matthew Bakke Nokia so in the past when we\u0027ve sort of tunnel to BFD we\u0027ve always said it - unto serpents - I would say even more generic when we do any IP or a.m. over the tunnel we use look back and it\u0027s sweeping or and BFD actually BFD followed the same because the first one it was RFC 43 79 which changed the new back in another FC thing 1122 and that was for a pretty good reason I think with something to do with if it gets extracted at the wrong part along the place or own path so don\u0027t forward it so you can\u0027t use it as an attack vector and right absolutely yes I mean yeah and we\u0027ve also I\u0027ve also come across sort of interoperability issues with things like early implementations of seamless BFD and LSP PFD where people have sort of some implementations will check for one to 7/8 some won\u0027t and some will discard if it\u0027s not one to 7/8 and I\u0027m just worried that if you\u0027re if you\u0027re implementing this on a box that\u0027s also doing all sorts of other flavors of BFD they\u0027re going to run into issues if you allow anything other than one - 7/8 again my understanding is that this is something that working group can decide so speaking personally rather than as a chair I think we all agree that if you\u0027re writing this from scratch and you had a clean implementation the procedure here is the right thing to do and the proper thing likely to do is an industry is just simply to pressure people to conform with this certainly you know you as an implementer have that choice simply by making sure that your stuff doesn\u0027t interoperate with things you consider broken I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s some way of Matthew you\u0027re suggesting that we should have must in place of the ocean Oh personally I\u0027d rather do that yeah could you at least write down so not envy you\u0027re speaking sorry could you at least write down what on the risk of not respecting that truth are you asking him to basically rewrite the reason why forty three seventy nine says did not do this yeah may be appropriate to put a reference and as to why for you three something I did okay that\u0027ll be easy maybe in the security consideration "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:38",
    "text": "section right something to say I think I think that we had more extended text why we said T Tier one but yeah that would be not a problem absolutely okay so should we take it as a working of decision or it will go to the mailing list I think documenting the security considerations just yeah no but changing to must because I think that yeah documenting its informational part but I think that more important is changing shoot the most is the implementer that does this willing to identify themselves I can dig through the email but we can just announce it and just wait for people to scream yeah so the motivation to force the change you know just simply say you know you have to be compliant is that we want to make them do things as best I remember the working group discussion we have currently two parties that actually implement this so we have enough that verify that people can actually do things in an interoperable fashion the problem with taking your the implementations is people are taking the risks to help refine the technology and you know there\u0027s some expectation that they eventually become conformer at the documents but there\u0027s all so a desire in their part that by our taking of the process we don\u0027t force them in the position that they regret actually doing things early so the question becomes what level of disincentive are we providing might know making them an informant and then you know documenting that we\u0027re gonna break their inter up by Fiat I think it depends how widely deployed though that\u0027s my question so let me stick an arbitrary name in there that I do not believe is the party but no FEX LAN is VMware is actually one that did this and you tell them well you can\u0027t do that and they\u0027re not conformant how many people you think are good right implementations that actually no take care then yeah actually since we have one of the editors familiar with their what they concern are the appeal the explain is not their concern anymore because they transition to another and gets a overlay protocol but they still allows out there it\u0027s gonna ever e ones gonna have to accept packets that have been on one to seven /i yeah typically the way we see most of these implementations behaving is people will throw in a knob to turn on non compliant mode for Reuters and as long as the default discovered by the should you know it takes care both the security considerations and now you basically have an implementation knob of last resort it\u0027s ugly it\u0027s just what\u0027s common practice its ugly in a headache and that development "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:38",
    "text": "and testing and okay yeah I think they know what if our normative dictionary does not have strongly recommend for so we have on me must and shed which is recommend where should not yes but its I should not rather must not be yeah we or we can do double negative so what we\u0027re gonna do it at this point so we forget about existing we ignore their pain or we\u0027ll just I I think the discussion that we\u0027ve had you know across that 300 messages I think that was almost so many of the messages yeah and my feeling of the consensus for the conversation is the should gets the feature out there it encourages people to do the right thing and implementers that choose not to interoperate with them have the option to do so okay okay so then we just add text to security consideration explaining the choice and probably pretty much cut and paste text from for the first 79 or 80 delicious tonight yes and if we wish to be religious in there we could also add in a sentence saying that implementations that previously did this for early deployment purposes really should capital and I said Shane yes tell people to do the right thing okay these sessions in management via night so the current version stress is that in most use cases single this session between two V taps is sufficient to monitor continuity of their V excellent uh no but we do recognize that there might be cases when operator would like to do monitoring via nine and then there are free to choose that also what we introduced is that operator may designate one of the vni that doesn\u0027t have any tenant as management CNI and then use this via an eye to monitor we excellent tunnel we refer to this as a management via nice similar to management VLAN but we do not specify which then I number should be used we just indicate that we use V ni number one we had some discussion some people suggested to use VMI number zero but we were informed that there are some cargo "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:38",
    "text": "and some other considerations that might limit the use of va0 so we decided to not recommend semillas remain as a default value for management which actually elders discussion led me to think and something that probably we should can discuss with the NGO 3 group is do we want to have for the sake of Geneva document as well the document which discusses use of management via NIU extent I think yes for sure I mean this is you know end up being very similar I would think between yes because that was again I kind of can see this same discussion like this same text being repeated so probably better to have some document which makes it more deterministic okay so we probably will get to that later [Music] open ish questions yes we do have some open questions and again as I mentioned already earlier we do have proposal to have some default value for the MAC address in case that management Vienna is used for BFD session so in a small text underneath if you see that yes they say it simplifies configuration but at the same time in my opinion it goes back to their allocated number so my impression from the text is that we go back to an IETF allocated number here and this almost is a request to mvo 3 to designate this number in that new management dock management instance document that this is the MAC address that it should get by default if it doesn\u0027t otherwise choose one is that a valid interpretation there was no suggestion because actually future work on management document we haven\u0027t got any further rather than realization that yeah and then might be a good community service so again I understand their interest and rationale of having some well-known default Mecca address here again it\u0027s limited because the proposal is that to use this number only if its management via ni but at the same time so it\u0027s the same whether it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:44",
    "text": "anyway can intrude on a tenant space so because what guarantees that tenants would not allocate something randomly so my personal impression for this is that we likely should not ask IANA for a specific address that it is reasonable for this current version of the document that we\u0027re trying to RFC to say that a number should be used supplied by the user if we do actually end up with a management instance document for mvo 3 it is not unreasonable to ask that document to potentially update this RFC does imply this as a default so this is sort of a backdoor way to maybe add it at a later point if this is a thing that nvo three wishes to do but if you don\u0027t have a well known MAC address aren\u0027t you asking every implemented a configurable knob for the foreign MAC address absolutely mm-hmm and if it does make it very clumsy because I I can\u0027t I think we had discussions similar to this with some other forms of REM in MPLS TP and and people just push back and push back and said we do really don\u0027t have that sort of configuration well it could be configuration with the control plane this is a closed control plane this is yeah this is a kind of discussion for a PFD we\u0027re defining the protocol mechanism the bootstrapping of this is going to probably go on top of something else actually I do favor proposal that Jeff made because the document which is more generic and will address the management vni for all overlay protocols and will set for all other protocols rather than BFD so if we define it here that will be the wrong place because it will be a limited or might be viewed only as applicable to BFD I think it should be applicable to all communication between V taps because management Vee and I is a control and signaling channel between V taps so any communication between them over this channel should be using if we decide should be using this MAC address including Beauty okay so let\u0027s take that forward so okay then the proposal or this okay is a proposal decision that will not address this request in this document that I think that is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:47",
    "text": "reasonable thing to do that\u0027s the consensus we currently have from the mail discussion we provided a possible path that allows us to add it after the fact updating other RFC\u0027s is a reasonable thing to do and this means that we can unblock this document through the RFC Q and depending on exactly how much work there is to do in nvo 3 for such a management document maybe that comes out much faster than this okay let\u0027s let\u0027s make a chase ah fine strong the normative for the years of Vietnam 1 so basically a change from May to recommendation again this is open question to their working group many pointed out that the fact that VLAN 1 is my understanding defect a standard management real and again I couldn\u0027t find any normative reference to the deal and one being management VLAN but in my firm my experiences yes that\u0027s usually what being configured so I as an editor or with a Santosh too so we think that the current text is reasonable so again no action here ok good and last actually it was question almost at the 11th hour from Santosh himself so the main mode is not mentioned in a document explicitly and is it indication that it\u0027s outside the scope of the draft and if it\u0027s outside the scope the draft should we have the same statement similar to in regard to be of the eco mode so for PFD eco mode the consideration is traffic that needs to be encapsulated outside the protocol so that\u0027s the reason why it has to be explicitly set outside because we have to have the discussion but the fording for such echo packets would look like for demand mode being on top of a sink it\u0027s a bass note that band is part of 58 80 this core feature it unless there is a reason we think that it breaks for some strange reason in this environment then we don\u0027t need to mention it because it\u0027s just a supported feature okay okay being pedantic do you think that we need to have some clarification to that along the line that you just reaction you just leave it as is just leave it as is okay perfect okay and with that I think that we have one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:51",
    "text": "action point to the editors at the text which is pretty clear and then for the working group chairs to decide what we do Thanks so we\u0027ve completed working group last call we\u0027ve gotten substantial feedback the amount of text change as part of the feedback has been relatively small so what that means is because they converge on those points mostly talked you know we achieve consensus which is all we can do so once you\u0027ve added the other item we can each take a quick editor editors pass through things but the written request call has concluded and once we have the new version we all advanced it to the ISG okay when we have a game review and comments asking I\u0027m not asking okay so okay in the meantime so we\u0027ll get to our action point and we\u0027ll report when it\u0027s ready okay thank you so this will be a very brief update and BFD for large packets and I\u0027m speaking in the context of a contributor rather than his grip and grip chair so a very very brief update your requested working group last call for version 1 because we thought it was done didn\u0027t no see any additional things need to be added and as is often the case than IETF this scared people into looking at the draft we\u0027ve got a lot of feedback I think less ginsberg the points that we addressed from that feedback in draft oh - which is currently published is there\u0027s more operational discussion about detecting MTU mismatches there\u0027s more discussion about ecmp impacts that when I think particular came from Robert rush book one of the open items have text written is still discussion about how this operates with regards to SPF t procedures where the reflector basically is a passive entity in most cases do we want to make sure that it reflects a specific MTU or no could be choose to screeners that each so we\u0027re going to address that as part of oh three we did not specifically make any protocol changes as part of the o2 considerations notice mostly operational ones the o3 ones will be minor protocol discussions for SPF D but again the main procedures themselves shall not be altered so since we believe that we may have addressed all the operational considerations that were brought up will request that the working group last call you know be reviewed for the o3 version and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:51",
    "text": "we\u0027ll see about advancing that based on that as mentioned in Prior presentations we do have Interop between doe juniper equipment and some software beta stacks and seems to work perfectly fine any questions okay our next presentation is and the one-armed PFD use case so who has not signed the blue sheets everybody assign the blue sheets yes okay please advance blue sheets the middle of the room if you could take the microphone here please I know who you are yeah that\u0027s thinking maybe five minutes is enough and then this is a very sorry would you please stay for the microphone your name how about this you know your valium who are you okay okay so good afternoon my name is a we charge him from China Mobile and this use case we just we just use it in our data center network you know next page okay okay so the application scenario is very simple because when we deploy is a data center maybe we did not open PFD but in some applicants now such as if we want to use data center for our telecom we life that means something like that we call the telecom craft at that appears general we need improve the availability of the data center so we hope to rise PFD between the Gateway and the NIC over the V at that applicants narrow because of you know it\u0027s very hard for the neke to support the PFD protocol so we won to use something like the ico motor to run the PFD functions in the it wayside we run the PFD protocol and give the destination MAC address to the NIC but as the IP address to itself you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:51",
    "text": "that is overly network and the the axle I\u0027m will for the PFD packet to the NIC directly and when the NIC received the packet eight got the IP address and rotated back to the Gateway so that in the the this application scenario no PFD Reister unique and the we still can use PFD to monitor the link is quality so next page so we compile in this opinion scenario and the function to the current a PFD I\u0027ve seen we found the a ttle the IQ function is used on two systems that deployed of PFD but our applicant scenario as I just mentioned in the other side there\u0027s no PFD riced and the next page we also see the PPF a TR 146 and it gives some description I think it\u0027s a similar to the current FC so it\u0027s also not gives a clear description if the post cited the system need a recipe FD together can next page so the the the the question for us is that has does echo function require remote peer note to support PFD protocol it seems like it\u0027s not a clear in current I\u0027ve seen as well as the current PB - document so the other question is that whether that\u0027s something else needed to be considered with ICO dinero\u0027s such as a PFD armado so our next step our proposed is that it might be modify the current I\u0027ve seen to clarify the PFD I call functions oh maybe we can give an informational drafter to describe the PFD functions at the scenario I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:52",
    "text": "mentioned so that\u0027s how thank you okay so I will start speaking if I\u0027m too fast feel free to ask me to slow down about four years ago I think maybe a little bit longer I started receiving strange emails at work asking about running PFD with echo without actually having the EFD protocol adduce know this seemed like a very strange sinner to me and i couldn\u0027t figure out what the request actually was when you look at what was actually requested for support from the routers and from the hosts really they asked for packet loopback for if the echo port to actually be enabled and it\u0027s like okay I understand this is not a bad way to test whether not you have remote connectivity but when there is no BFT protocol involved there is nothing for me FTE necessarily to standardize so I didn\u0027t understand the nature of the question and then a little over a year ago somebody may be aware of the broadband forum PR 146 document and this gave me why people are asking about it it was because another standards organization had decided that they were going to try to make use of a small piece of our functionality but in a way that was not well specified there their document has errors in it this is an understood thing and it is as you say one-sided or one-armed you know that the protocol literally is from if these perspective shut off you know what we have is effectively some switch that we turn on you know the echo functioning regardless of whether or not BFD has been negotiated so we\u0027re sort of using a piece of the VFD machinery and we certainly could use the piece of a VFD echo implementation that understands no interruptions to loop that things are up or things are down and report it to a client protocol so certainly somebody\u0027s BFD implementation could be let\u0027s call it broken in this way so that this functionality was took effect where the discussion is interesting so you\u0027re you\u0027re the first to bring this to IETF to ask about this BBF has not come to a TF I found out about this completely by accident and as I mentioned their document is not quite right and one of junipers members of BBF has said that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:52",
    "text": "they may write a updated version of the document at a later point in time where this lis us is an interesting position of ITF does not describe this behavior ebf has some description of the behavior but it\u0027s not correctly described the functionality is useful but EFT as a protocol itself is not actually active on this session so to some extent we\u0027re describing how a broken BFD could be used so our problem is IETF is do we wish to put a document together that effectively republishes the scenario from BB F maybe with Corrections and at the IETF context part of that is having a discussion with Martin or ad to figure out if this fits into the Charter part of the discussion is discussion with you know any of the Hazen\u0027s we may have with broadband form to figure out you know why did you use our protocol in the first place without talking to us but but I think that the point you\u0027re bringing to the working group and thank you for the presentation is that this is a helpful piece of functionality and you also gave an example of could we maybe extend yang to cover this behavior so that such things could be configured so there is possibility for the work certainly if you wish to be one of the authors on the document towards IETF that can be done but there are many process discussions that have to happen first no problem I think it\u0027s a will be very useful because the currently a lot of overly networking is a deployment that deployed that not only within data centers such as the vxy as well as you know one system in sd1 especially for some industry in tonight so maybe the scanner function can be used in more application scenario so that\u0027s useful and we have I think two open questions that make this potentially a little more difficult no the first observation is that ITF has sometimes republished another doc and other working groups sorry another standards bodies document in an IETF context is narf see sometimes that\u0027s actually a handover where we take over a maintenance of work for them the issue that we do have to verify before we can start to progress is since BBF is a standards body do they have an intellectual property restriction on their proposal so even if we wanted to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:52",
    "text": "do work on this we would have to figure out the status of that the start yeah but that I think a BFD rised up by ppi the IDF and as you could IDF is a host observe the FDA so I personally agree with you however lawyers do not have a larger question I think yeah okay that\u0027s Wes Ginsburg I just this is kind of interesting the what I\u0027m wondering about the interactions with the various forms of strictmode I think that would be problematic cuz millions actually have a BFD session and particularly you don\u0027t have BFD at all on the pier yeah the sort of weird observation I\u0027ve made as this has come up yeah my job over the prior years is that they\u0027re using the FDA echo packets through the job and if I have to take a guess as an engineer there\u0027s probably some sort of no commodities silicon vendor that happens to have the FDA code loopback programmed into their hardware that makes this cheap and easy and people are just using that but this could be ping you know literally any mechanism could be used that tests the remote connectivity and you know the DFT state machinery for clients could be used echo it back actually thanks to bringing this Terra 146 attention I was not aware of it and when I read it I believe they do use not only beef the echo the use a combination of pole sequence to communicate diagonals and and actually that\u0027s where I found mo more mistakes and error misconceptions and no reference to the final for example they just say we send a reply which is not accurate terminal it is terminology I can understand what they mean but the technology as well so I think that again we have this week David Sinha crop so if we want to communicate something to be there that he can put on the liaison head and we can use that and actually the good thing is that PDF member meeting is one week from this week I believe it was David that brought 146 to my attention the first time okay actually I would be surprised because when I mentioned to him he gave me this stare look that okay might be at some time back he knew about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:55",
    "text": "it it was either David or one of Jennifers internal people well could have been David Dave Allen yes yes because actually it\u0027s out of his in the old working area okay so Martin from hobby so I think this idea is very interesting as in it\u0027s very useful offer some scenario in my personal opinion I think there may be some protocol work need to be defined in this little girl because for the traditional BFD session we need to set to set it I only need to set our my discriminators right which we use particle tuner this come in turn off the remote side but for this one called one arm VFP we need to suppose so there may be some different some different work particle process need to be done for this solution so based on my understanding talking to people who seem to have some flavor that\u0027s implemented the whole issue here is that they don\u0027t want to put any BFD machinery into the effectively it\u0027s a host device at the other site like a media gateway for cable networks that sort of thing very dumb boxes and they\u0027re relying on the packet loop to simply fulfill the need so this is very bad from the working groups perspective because we don\u0027t have any negotiation that can help the BFD sender figure out what\u0027s no packet speed the receiver actually wants to get so this this is probably okay for the people who did this work because for their environment they knew what speed they\u0027re willing to support it\u0027s either very slow or they they know how fast they can safely know do things you\u0027re absolutely correct that if you\u0027re trying to do this in a safe fashion you would be using a full BFD implementation that it\u0027s only purpose is to say I\u0027m not willing to do fast they sink I\u0027m gonna go into demand mode immediately feel free to use echo you would get the same profile but to do so you would actually need to have enough of a PFD implementation from the state machine yeah I think yeah yeah for that attacked I think a great weights you know need some particle extinction because the local site and remote side but for the local process and based on current precision I think her name is some modification to the current process into you know how to handle this you know have the same discriminate no maybe no no discriminators remember this is echo and it\u0027s literally just IP packets this is a very dumb mechanism yeah kind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:57",
    "text": "of echoing yourself in a way I mean the thing that springs to mind with this is there\u0027s another power mechanism could LSP self ping where you just root you just flip the packet you just address a packet yourself and send it into an LSP and it comes back yeah kind of yeah so I\u0027m wondering about the the negotiation you\u0027re talking about is really you know negotiating with yourself because it\u0027s just a rout yeah you\u0027re just a syndicate our turn you know because of the remote side and that cannot that is very weak system and that but it can rot back as a packet so maybe we can use a priority lose speed be a fanny pack a treat but we can check the linkers quality that\u0027s enough and then calling it a DFT packet is a little misleading it\u0027s if the echo packets are just data it just happens to be to a well known port Lewis Chan one direction maybe from the echo sigh is Marie now actually do not be quite a coup start to do anything right so therefore actually for troubleshooting I also thought some other statistic collections right we may specify the format so that the echo size can optionally okay turn on to get the statistics so that the troubleshoot to look at what happened in the networks and look how many sections we adapt ish so those whole thing may be useful in some places actually but we need to identify who are the sender I think that is the important which is the exterminator always knows information and that another packet itself actually I think that this exchange brings for a good question that was somewhere in the back of my mind is would be good in this document even when we write it that explain what exactly can be verified and monitored using this technique so that to have right expectations and I want to point out that echo works on the over single hop you know okay so it could be at uh no so but you\u0027re still crossing single hawk right yeah and relaying a question from Robert Russia and Jabbar was a spoofy projection spoofing protection considered in this Eco mode and you know Greg you just answered a portion of the question which is that it\u0027s single hop only you know whether it\u0027s a tunnel or not but beyond that this is just a echo functionality and you know the remote side exercises no protocol behaviors at all so it is up to the sender to put something into the packet that they would recognize you know the BFD 58 80 spec does not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:59",
    "text": "talk about that at all it\u0027s my impression from having talked to other implementers that sometimes they\u0027ll put their proprietary stuff in there that does attempt to look for it they\u0027re not going to publicly say what they do that\u0027s that you can fire up tcp dump and no look at it and you\u0027ll probably give a guess on it you know okay thank you thank you so I think the actions for the working group is no rules continued discussion the mailing list will discuss things with the BBF and figure out how to take this forward okay thank you and that concludes our content we will probably be meeting is competitive upcoming IETF and you know thank you for coming to IETF for 1:06 they never describe why they call the DFT but 46 5 "
  }
]