[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign there's a um a refresh icon which is like an arrow Circle or half circle Arrow foreign hit the refresh I think that will work for you so we're looking for volunteers who can take notes he's a couple of people to do that so I'm going to get jump on that here in the next few minutes I'm logged in to take notes okay great thanks Carl one other person this is Hank I'm not sure if my audience"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "working but I can help with notes this time thank you very much all right I'm in uh Nancy was having technical difficulties she's gonna she's trying to rejoin so I'm going to kind of wait to see if we can get her to to uh resolve that I can start with some boilerplate uh chair stuff so the the uh this is the nope that's the wrong one I'm sorry uh that is okay this isn't the hf115 reusing those slides but this is the uh the virtual interim in December of 2022. uh just a refresher on the um note well so everybody I think everybody's familiar with the IP policies for the ITF so just take note of what that is and anything that you say or contribute will be will fit under that IP policy we are recording the session and uh just a few tips here for the meeting make sure that uh your your audio and video are off unless you're you know chairing or presenting and uh we recommend use of a headset go to conduct uh you know be nice be courteous um please contribute and uh here's our agenda it's really one thing which is to continue our focus on the eat blockers and issues and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "um hopefully we can get through all of those today and and actually uh make this a uh something we can wrap up pretty quickly so with that I'm going to check and see if Nancy is here still don't see her okay still having technical difficulties so we will move on without her I hope she can join so uh with that that's our agenda and so if someone wants to make a change or suggest something different please do so otherwise I think we are on track to begin with the eats update and blockers so uh Lawrence is that can you share that or do you want me to share it or [Music] oh there we go okay how do I share that now I haven't haven't sorry I haven't done this before um it's all right there's the screen icon if you click that you can share uh okay over here okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "foreign [Music] are saying the um the meet Echo screen okay in the right window here sorry click on the second list in the in the in the meetings now I've got the I just got a lot of windows open here yeah if you want I can share it too that's not a problem yeah just give me a minute I'm sorry I was organized for this um this is saying the slides seem to be have accepted by uh through the data tracker materials so you in theory you can just use them here from etecho right you don't have social yeah just click on just click on the link and it'll come up is that uh does that look right yep okay there we go sorry for the so okay um and uh foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:08",
    "text": "okay uh here just very quickly here's the changes we made in draft 18 which was published since London um so secbook was renamed to uh owing Boot and it's described as OEM authorized boot um uh the um the term attestations um is no longer used in the intentity claim I think it says now um uh evidence and were attestation results um and then there was some clarification in the privacy consideration section about freshness and replay protection and then there was also a number of typographic and other really minor changes oh oh so yeah so those were the three changes in draft 18 and then um you know honest the review and he found a bunch of little minor things wording changes and missing words and wrong capitalization so we've merged I think 10 of 10 of his PR PR's into um in GitHub and those will will show up when draft 19 is published uh any comments or questions on that but before I go on okay um so these are the remaining issues um with your voice breaking up I don't know if others are having the same issue oh are you in a headset um to me it's like stuttering that's from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "time to time seems to be like pixelated pixelated a little bit I don't know and then maybe get closer to the mic or yeah I will get closer to the mic and speak more slowly um I generally I'm not using a headset but generally my Mac works really well for this um I suspect the problem is I'm on a poor internet connection and nothing I can do about that um so this speaking hey we'll see how it goes yeah um I I'm actually I am in Mexico um and I have not installed starlink yet um uh so this is issue number ten um very old the issue requests guidance on how to create Yang objects for claims in our response here from the authors is that we're just focusing on seabor and Jason in in this document and that they Cannon Yang would be a step too far foreign comments or questions on that yeah so this is saying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um just quickly um so it's about the semantics here ISU because you can of course um encode Yang in C boy Jason but that's not the point I assume that we are not um trying to map um named words and yang those statements basically uh and and try and make them make them values here is that correct well I I don't know very much about yang um so the this identified such terms have you identified any terms that are being reused from Yang in the eat doctor oh no no no no no no I'm just asking I I I'm not even familiar with the issue I'm just hearing that we are declaring um you know the responses overreach for the eat document which focuses on zebra and Jason which basically says yes we are doing gang and I I don't if there's anything you wanted to say that I think you want to exclude young here uh but but the response opens it for yeah yeah so that is my confusion okay yeah go ahead Lauren sorry for interrupting we don't want to change anything in the document the document does not mention yang and we don't want to add anything about Yang to the document move on yeah and I think that was the that was Lawrence's request if somebody had an objection I think hey Hank was just clarifying that uh that he was reading the response correctly which I think is that he said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "my interpretation was that that his response was in line with the direction which is to not include Yang in the uh in the internet draft exactly yeah so if that doesn't the response does not reflect that but if you chose the issue it's gone so that's also good foreign this was a request to reorder the sections in the eat document um the request put some of the claim definitions put put their request put the claim definitions later in the document this issue is from over a year ago the document has been reordered in some other ways since also the document the order of the the document matches the order of JWT and cwt so again no uh I mean I would like to close this issue can you appreciate that again what was the other document just for the purpose of the notes takers uh so the ordering of sections in eat matches the ordering of sections in JWT and cwt okay thank you yeah both of them have the claims definitions like the third or you know it's the first intersection the claim definitions is the first major section"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "with no change for this one and in the original uh thing that's filed uh Michael says I wonder if as opposed to please move it here's the problem whatever it said I wonder if so it wasn't strong to begin with and so I think it's fine to just close this one okay moving on so this issue number two and I won had two parts one is that the issue asks how s-u-e-i-d labels are assigned the the text in the document and since uh draft 13. explains that their assignment is intentionally left open so basically the document already says the labels are not as uh are there is no process for assigning the labels so the issue only asked how they were assigned didn't say that the method of assignment was wrong or that the none method for assignment was wrong it only asked how they were assigned they failure this might be a case we're just responding in the issue to say it's allowed and left up in the profile which seems to be the answer and not change the document and just responding in the issue for record yeah that response was provided in the issue a month ago"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:05",
    "text": "uh it's up to the profile if a profile wants to require it or prevent it or whatever that a profile can do that right yeah the response does not mention profiles but I don't think it needs to it can but I don't think it's too you could add that comment in GitHub and close it uh I think the text in the document is fine okay any other comment on the Su Eid labels okay the issue also asks if the ueid and Su Eid can be the same um the response is that yes they can be the same there's nothing in the document that says whether they could be the same or not but I believe the rules for ueid and Su Eid are clear and we do not have to explicitly say that they can be the same the basically the rules imply that they can be the same but there are you know rules for when an Su Eid can change and when a UE ID can change so they might start out the same but an s-u-e-i-d can change and that would where a ueid can't so they might through a life cycle event that might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "become different even though they started the same but I believe the rules are clear and don't need everything comments that I made earlier were actually on the bottom half of the slide about uh what we would do in the GitHub is commenting on the bottom half not of the top half sorry if that wasn't clear before okay how would profiles relate to this all right Lawrence's uh was choppy so I'll just repeat what I said my comments before was um uh adding a comment in the GitHub and then closing it but not changing the text and my suggestion for adding a comment in the GitHub which I could do is did you say that um the the UE ID and the suid may or may not be the same the document the the spec does not constrain it uh if there's any constraints necessary then a profile constraint whether they must be the same or they must be different or whatever else any other constraints in the relationships there is up to a profile but right now there's no constraints and we can just say that in the GitHub issue and close it because I think the text is so we have agreement to close the bottom half of the slide what about on the top half is is that also agree to close with the won't fix or or nobody's on the Queue I assume the answer is yes foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:19",
    "text": "so this issue requests that the measurement results claim be removed uh because it is too general for a relying party to be able to interpret the you know as you know the measurement results claim um represents the results of a measurement it's not the attestation results although it might be inside data station results foreign results claim can also be in evidence if the a tester has the ability to evaluate measurement result measurements and there are products out there that do this that have the um known good values the attacker has the known good values um so the the measurement results claim does have a simple pass fail option you can just say extension result with asked or failed and that's something that an RP would know how to interpret also RP always has to understand the verifiers policy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "that just does a basic uh characteristic of the rat's architecture so I mean in that sense every claim is in attestation results is the RP needs additional information to interpret any claim in attestation results the point is that the measurement results claim explains why it is General and there is a whole detailed paragraph explaining this so again um we believe the text is fine as is thank you or uh when there's complete silence if I just jump in um yeah I think that the text is uh fine I think the one thing that the working group may want to discuss and I noticed that Eric Voyage is not on the call uh but I think it might be appropriate for the ar-4si document and talk about the relationship between uh this claim and the trustworthiness vectors I don't think any change is necessary to eat spec but I think that a discussion of this uh question in the era for us I document might actually be very useful sounds good to me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "so do we do we need to create an issue in the Air Force I repo then to capture this or so meaning uh in the Air Force I document right because the profiles can convey uh what our allowed claims prohibited claims and so on and is this one of the loud plan I have to go look and they reference High because I don't remember off top my head so this is Gary here can I add a label of won't fix keep it open indicate that on the issue that we think this issue would be better taking handling the Air Force eye document if I close it then you'll lose track of some of the right up the warrants is provided in there and also the decision we made today I would really like to close it if we create a new issue in every reference this one will be discoverable even if you close it yeah we'll close it and then uh I'll put the note in there that will say AR for I will add the label we'll fix but I'll uh but uh we'll put in their ar-4s I will uh we'll take this issue and I'll see if I can put a link to the ar-4si repo in the in that context as well okay sounds good thank you foreign to this claim anywhere mentioned in the ar-4si document and so I think it is valid to have something to say it is this one an allowed claim and if so what's the relationship uh between this and the trust or the specter okay moving on to the next uh this is this was filed against raft 13 draft 13 had a normative session on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "endorsements and verification keys that section was moved to appendix f so this so there was a significant change to the document in this area since this claim Earth's issue was filed foreign this issue and I believe in the comments and discussion on GitHub uh evolved to a request for specification of methods for verification keys and endorsement identification I think it was actually requesting detailed investigations of methods um so the response here is appendix F today provides good examples of different ways to specify the key so you could can do it with UE ID you can do it with x-time uncertificates and or the cause a kid so it appendix F describes those examples they're just examples though another Point here is that the means for handling verification keys and endorsement identification are going to vary quite a bit from use case to use case so much so that it's you don't see it as possible to pin down to in particular thing again um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "that would be something that would be addressed by a profile and also this parallels what happens in kosee does not specify any end-to-end you know key identification scheme um basically the we think that the method for identification identification of key or the endorsement should be in a separate document or other documents um for example perhaps somebody create a document that says how to use x509 certificates as endorsements so we believe there are no changes to be made in the document we do not want to strike out and provide a whole the identification scheme we feel the examples are sufficient foreign Michael was expecting but I think you can rest can you repeat the question Nancy yeah could you transcribe it if you're having trouble with your uh with your audio I'm not sure if it's a meat echo or the endpoint or an endpoint issue but I couldn't understand a word that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:21",
    "text": "yeah yeah Nancy I couldn't understand it but you said either the audio broke up foreign Ty you got the answer from Nancy in the chat one okay I'm yeah I'm sharing my screen that we're not the king of that I can read it out she says uh it was a comment to say you have an example in appendix F so I think it's okay to consider this PR result foreign objections to closing this thanks on the queue yeah sorry I mean two meetings at the same time that's a little bit difficult um so I heard um so I was confused by the issue of the first place to be honest so I have no problems with it being closed and not acted on as I I think it's about a key identification standards and I don't think we want to go there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "so I would be fine with um just abandoning the issue I think Michael who can't defend his issue had something for this but I can't put his head on because I literally don't understand it well enough so I I think uh if there's no um feedback from MCR required because we could abandon it yes foreign okay we will close this issue so that is it for um the the issues except for one that was filed a couple of days ago by Thomas and we have not worked through this issue completely yet um there were there were a few other PRS and issues filed uh in the last week or so um I have not put them in the slides or I'm not bringing them up here because I believe they are all um just a procedural or wording there's one about how to form the cddl correctly you can follow them on GitHub but I believe they are not important or that they don't require the discussion at the meeting here so this this uh what what is your plan for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "the resolution for those is it to generate another revision of the draft I think we will generate a draft 19 uh in the next uh a week or two before holidays um uh mostly it will be uh you know since we haven't had any anything here so far that's required to change it will mostly be uh just fixing the uh the spelling and the typographic errors and I think there will be one cddl adjustment but relatively more and it doesn't change the semantics it's just a question of how to use CDL most actively oops okay curious on the queue there's questions for the chairs um we put out the draft 19. will we be uh can we take it to iefg review um I understand I'm assuming most working group members particularly the ones who have gone through who have are who have gone through the uh RFC editing process before will know that this is not draft 19 is going to be far from the last draft but um in fact we're anticipating uh I think we can safely anticipate several several other versions and uh in addressing the iesg comments and if the if the chairs that reasonable Way Forward can they describe what the process will be after we put out the 19 draft so I want to get a feel for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "how many people have read the you know 18 and are familiar with with that one uh I don't um the Assumption being that 19 is going to be kind of wording changes you know minor wording changes to 18. uh so if uh but I I do want to get a sense for how many people have uh are familiar with 18 and uh so uh well let me I'm gonna think of some I'm gonna maybe do show hands here well we know honest has read that thoroughly hey thanks on the Hanks on the queue yeah and that's so I so yeah this was off timing I mean two things here um so the problem is that um I you want to have a um uh a poll first because then I will postpone my question yeah okay sorry unfortunate timing yeah so I'm signing a poll to see how many people have read uh version 18. oh in context of this issue or in general in general okay ldq for now but for this issue I think I still have a comment so I like to say that harness has read it so plus one is not it can be here let's see he said you know go ahead okay and relay my message so I'm I'm relaying it okay so add one more it looks like it's about evenly split uh eight people participating five red"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "through it three if not of those that are participating so anybody else okay it looks like it's settled down so it sounds like it seems like us folks are familiar with it uh so the next question I have is um if there are only sort of minor wording changes in version 19. do we think it's ready uh for for last call are you putting out a poll on that that are you going to get some mailing list okay take some time to type it clarify what last call you're referring to Gary specifically asked for iesg last call right that's what I think your question should be is is it okay to submit to the isg now yes I can confirm that with my original request okay so try this foreign should I assume that honest was going to vote for this yes that too harnesses reviews what was that again Nancy uh okay it looks like it's settled down uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:10",
    "text": "so so eight seven seven uh hands in favor one and not raised the person that did not raise their hand did they want to speak and explain their reason for not raising their hand foreign so I'll conclude from the voting that where it seems as though uh version 19 would be a reasonable candidate for isg review but we will want to wait until that that is out and we've had a chance to look at it before we actually uh recommend it for ASU review but I think that can be done you know offline on the list I don't know that we need to meet again Hank has this hand up yeah so um I think that's where we are through the slide deck so I was gonna come back to the uh um issue that we were looking at um just a moment ago I can't see it so I have to look at it I'll pass through at first so yeah um so I think the problem in general that I still perceive for this issue why I think it should be a fix is what uh Thomas commented on four days"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "ago that when you do this should normative statement you that it should be coming with a rationale what the exception is when so when is it okay to format it and or how would it be uh obvious to the uh relying party that it's not confronted with evidence and and I think that is a valid concern to be honest I I wouldn't know how to use that at the moment I think your comment is aimed at whom uh at the authors of it the maintainers of the issue at the people who say it's okay to have a shot without explaining how to use it this one of the authors want to respond um I'll I hate to respond to question with the question but Hank would uh would removal of the rfc2119 language uh uh alleviate alleviate the concern from your perspective I know we've had offline discussions at Thomas so uh I'm not I'm not going to ask you to speak for him oh yeah no I'm speaking for myself so I I just want to agree with the Thomas's Point here so that's basically it and um no removing it would make it worse that would allow it right that's not that's not good then you clearly can state that yeah go ahead send evidence to the underlying party and and some of that feels weird to me when is this okay how can an implementer tell that this is okay how do you mark uh evidence as such when you send it to a relying party because it has to go to the verify in the first place so so that is that is things that I would like to ask the guides about yeah yeah so so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "first off I've already I've already stated my view on this there's a they're a perfectly valid attestation architectures where the verifier is integrated into the relying party so when you talk about sending something from the verifier to the relying party you're assuming the specific architecture you're doing an e that is attestation results I'm saying I'm saying you don't sit if the verifier is integrated into the relying party there's not the concept of sending yeah is is not clear to me what that means ah okay so because you'd have a verifier that I don't know internally communicates its findings through the same system that is the relying party also I got it so but then you're never sending uh evidence to Airline party effectively you're sending it to a verifier so there's no reason you're sending it to the relying party the relying party happens to include the verifier functionality in it yeah but the architecture always sends things to roles that it happens to be on the same entity once again you're talking about an architecture the one that you're you're a co-editor of it's not all the that's not the only uh architecture that they uh yeah but he's an eid's ID and and it's it's it's it's it's uh according to the Reds working group of things I think that I'm confused more so this is um how well how is this idea informed not by the architecture of Reds then it no I think it's meant to cover more than that right I think it's that's why it's a that's why it's softened to a should requirement um but I'm saying two receptions the exceptions are quite uh are quite lengthy when you would uh when you would not want to do this that I don't think we can give the proper uh I personally speaking as an individual don't think we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "can do proper Justice to this discussion and uh inside of the eat document no uh so we the Dave Thayer's on the Queue I'm just learning how to disposition this conversation I'm wondering if we need to capture it in the in the issues uh tracker um it's already there yeah my comment has done a different topic so okay I raised my hand about the same time that uh Hank hit it up on a different time okay and then Carl raised his hand is it related to this current topic Carl yes it's on this topic um okay so should I just go ahead Dave go ahead yeah uh yeah we're just gonna come back today I was just gonna say we've we've talked about four possible uh ways to to settle this one Gary mentioned removing the the 2119 language one the must not that that's in the issue that was the the initial submission one was to to add a brief rationale to the should not that that says except where a profile identifies why you're you're you're not adhering to this should not and then the other option was just no change at all so those are the four things we've talked about and only one of them got talked about here really so I don't know if if either of the the other options there Hank catches your ear differently but that that's where we are on addressing the issue to my eye anyway so we do expect that that any address any rest drafts will adhere to the rat's architecture so so if that's the case based on what uh what sorry but that's uh when you say expect that's not necessarily going to apply you know you you know usages of that but for instance a web often uh registry which is an ietf RFC industry-wide security A.D"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "if it's not possible for an attestation format to actually uh to actually Define distinguish claims between evidence and that and results that is uh I'm an expert reviewer on that uh for that particular registry I'd have to reject it because the architecture has no contemplation of such a uh such a distinction so and one of the first one of the first things me and Lawrence were asked by the security IDs at the time when we submitted uh eat for consideration by the ITF was can this can this be applied to Fido I have to look it up it was an email from about four or five years ago but uh but so I don't really uh I think if you if we're going to say that I think eat applies in the context of the ecosystems in which it's uh in which it's being used not eat is not strictly adherent to the rat's architecture so I think the way I don't I don't think any I don't think that that the rats architecture is trying to say that eat can't apply to Fido what we want to get to is an explanation for how the rat's architecture is interpreted such that it that a phyto implementation of it makes sense in other words the just the description of the application of rats is you know aligned with or in harmony with the rat's architecture okay I don't think that's an architectural thing yeah yeah and that stated such in the um in the eat document right it says the eat format follows the operational model described in figure one that is where evidence only evidence only goes to the verifier threats architecture it literally says that so now you're telling me it is not doing that yeah but it can but it doesn't happen it doesn't have to right I mean it's uh it's there we've uh the document is is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "written as such but let me rephrase this the document is conformant with the architecture document I think in this case though the language was kept vague and I think it's the right thing to do to allow for the different exceptions let's leave aside Fido for a second um evidence can be evidence cannot it can be complete conveyed not in a token format oh sorry results can be conveyed not in a token format but in a UCCS format the working group made a very made a decision to remove all mention of UCCS in this document therefore it's up to the UCCS saw editors to decide when for instance an IAT claim or any other claim that's the Providence of the token issue gets conveyed as evidence all right sorry results sorry you get confused so if we can't really discuss that here in this document I so um so I I want to highlight but I already forgot what it was that the second option card I mentioned was nice but I literally forgot what it was to the discussion right now um I'm confused about the non-u the mentioned the relationship to UCCS I'm also unclear now about um no no we've removed everything but we're not it doesn't prohibit the IAT claim from being passed through as a result in the form of a UCCS right so how that gets handled is up to the UCCS document Ary is Lawrence your comment on this threat also sorry sorry Dave Lawrence do you have audio"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "I don't I don't hear Lawrence if he's speaking Yeah okay uh to me uh the rats architecture does inform eat and really now you know we've worked with this architecture the rats architecture for a long time years um I don't I think it is flexible enough to accommodate Fido I don't think um we have to rearrange anything I'm here um and I'm kind of puzzled by this discussion I mean uh the the whole document is you know it does use the rats architecture terms um I really would not I don't want to revisit the whole rats architecture discussion about the separation um I also point out that all of the claims are neutral I think every single claim is neutral as to whether it goes into evidence or attestation results I mean I was intentionally trying to do that yes I think I think what we need is to capture the there were like four Carl mentioned there were four different options that hadn't been discussed we should capture those four options in the issue uh and then have whatever appropriate discussion is needed I I think that you know the conversation around hey we don't have to be compliant with rat's architecture uh is just I I don't uh it's moved it seems like it's a mood or false yeah yeah it's a red herring don't worry about that uh the document is the document is conformant even the last time I had a little discussion with David Hank on the GitHub repo it was already resolved in favor of the rats architecture so it's so don't don't worry about that Carl's already said he's going to put the four options in there into the repo the problem is that I don't know how you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "gauge consensus I'd like to get this into the dash 19 draft if there is a resolution on this now um can we just uh can can you delegate this to a smaller team like you know Thomas I meant the guys are already looking into the repo just as the reviewers that's all yeah yeah yeah the the people the people who care about the issue should work together on it yeah that's that's what it's meant Lawrence it's not it yeah okay yeah well so what we'll do is when we come up with the mutually Global PR if we do we'll designate the reviewers to sign off on it and then okay and it'll be great okay yeah that'd be great yep Lawrence are you okay with that too I'm basically okay with almost any option here just to get the document through you know with the understanding that uh you know there there will be further drafts here so I I really don't want this issue to hang up hang us up for iesg review that's the that's my top priority so whatever we can do to get through into into IHS iesg reviews sooner rather than later is what I want to do okay okay uh Dave thanks for waiting Dave Taylor yep sorry I was just getting off of mute here uh and the last one I'm in the same spot as Lawrence as long as it doesn't regress anything then I don't care so um uh the issue that I want to talk about given though I think we have all the relevant parties on the call right now is I didn't see in the slides unless I missed it issue 343 which is the IAT definition that Thomas mentioned and so there's a discussion between Thomas and Carl and Lawrence and if I uh understood right uh the issue is that the cddo allows time to be in either integer or float format but the eat uh disallows it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "and we needed to decide how to do that in the document there's a current pull request open that proposes doing so in prose meaning the ctel still allows float but the text in the document says don't use float use integer um I approved it this morning and it looks like Thomas just did as well but wanted to give visibility to the rest of the group um but I didn't quite follow why we could not do it in the cddl which were a lot better too in things but I have no objection either way so I just want to give a minute for people to discuss this issue let me respond quickly is that I didn't put it in the slides because I thought it was just a cddl issue that didn't require uh you know there's no controversy about what uh what the document you know the the intent here it is just what is the best cddl to represent this and I Carston made a comment about uh dot within and Dot and that I was going to look into and maybe that solves it well I I'm the only voice that's been against doing it in cddl so I I'll speak and the reason I'm saying this is this claim isn't defined in this document it's being reused from somewhere else and I think if you if you claim to reuse something then change the definition and change the pros you're no longer reusing and if we get to the point where cddl Imports are used now you've got kind of this weird animal where eats using it one way and other stuff is using it some other way so that's that's the only reason and it's kind of pedantic but that's why I I was against uh changing the cddl profile are we yeah that was exactly the way to do it I think right in my opinion uh so the question I was going to ask Carlos which document is this being reused from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "the cwt RFC which inherits from the jwtrfc gotcha thank you um so I I did not understand your comment in there so yeah I already approved it which is doing it in prose but didn't quite understand uh why I didn't object either way so just wanted to thank you for the elaboration okay so we're going to have to cut the conversation we're at time uh so um let's resolve offline uh captured in an issue work the issue through the list and uh let's hope let's shoot for getting that resolution before version 19. okay and uh we'll move forward in that direction so thanks everybody for attending and we will look forward to continuing this conversation on the list any last uh remarks from any of the other chairs foreign thank you to the notes takers I appreciate that and uh you know have a good rest of the month and and have a happy holidays yes bye bye"
  }
]
