[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:25",
    "text": "hello daniele can you hear me we can hear you actually thank you agent i can't there's really five people in sea camp oh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "now it seems to work on my side okay daniele no i can't hear you okay do but i if you can hear me let's try yeah yeah okay now i can hear you wonderful okay sounds good yeah i think we can start right okay guys let's start so uh welcome to c cam session and you know good morning good afternoon good evening so i'm sorry that you know at the cheers we both cannot make the trip to attend the meeting physically so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "sorry about that so uh let's start from the load where so actually i think you know uh we are all family with the load wheel uh information actually and this is the kind of demand for the idf policies which means that by participating in the itf you agree to follow idea policies and you know i.t process including idf you know our patent policy and also if you would like to get more information about the load where you can you know have a look at the pcp and documents in the below next and also you know there are a couple of tips that we should be aware you know uh this time this meet is a kind of mixed meeting so uh including in person participants and remote participants so uh there are some tips for the uh on-site you know our participants uh first we have to make sure to sign into the session you think online tour with echo and also use the mid anchor to join the mic q and especially please keep audio and the video off if not used on site version and the last one is very important because it is relevant to our health so uh please wear masks unless when you're speaking at the mic and so the remote participants we also uh have to make sure your audio and the radio are off unless you are speaking you are you know chilling or presenting something uh to avoid you know our internet bandwidth competition and also we recommend to use a kind of you know headset you know to to make you are much clearer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "next and there are some information about this meeting like agenda in the mid echo you can just you know open the links next so and there is also some contact and guidelines i think this is more like a kind of supplement supplement to the you know load wheel this thing's more described in the bcp 54 in sudbury uh it says that anyway we should you know be polite and you know respect each other at all times i think this is quite very important no personal attack we can only just focus on the you know uh technical stuff next and for session this time we have only one session with two hours actually i don't think the time is you know are friendlier for the especially for the mode participant for the asian people but also it's not friendly for the you know uh in in-person participants because this is friday afternoon maybe some you know in person participants may leave for home at this time okay next so this agenda so this time we have my um you know our plantation uh presentations so uh this year a kind of you know a visa agenda so let's follow the agenda and let's have a you know an efficient discussion so uh administrative actually uh we are using the mid echo i think we know how to use it yeah next so uh for the meet takers i think you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "know how men can help us but i'm not sure or sky is key or not it seems oscar you know uh is not in the meeting so uh anyway if anyone you know i could you know capture something slow on my uh tour that will be a much appreciated but anyway i asked how many to help the children blushes so uh anyway this will be uh automatically uh created based on your you know mid echo information not information uh so no need to do anything and for the ipr process though this is quite very important reminder about the ipr process so usually you know prior to moving to the next step in the working group process uh the the chairs we are sending the ipr polling and then uh which requires the authors and the contributors of a draft to respond to ipr polling as soon as possible otherwise it may delay your draft to move forward quickly next so uh another reminder about the main list we always you know are encouraged working group to use the many list as much as possible and we can for example discuss any open issues to some drafts and also we can introduce some new drafts and to attract more you know interest from the working group and also we could you know uh introduce or discuss some potential on new topics after our seacam and also uh be aware that working group consensus is determined on the main list even though if we you know get some consensus in during the meeting but we still need to bring to the uh list for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "confirmation next okay it's for you daniele okay let's see if it works so a brief update on the document on the status of the documents of the working group actually we have two documents in the isg processing the applicability of gmp ls to ot on rtn beyond 100 gigabits and which which has been there for a while now and the recently pushed young model for flexibility the topology i would like to thank sadrian once again for uh volunteering to be the shepherd for this for both of the documents actually we have five working group documents uh on agenda we have the microwave topology young model uh the young model for otn slicing the young model for layer 1 [Music] service models um the it's all young models basically the optical impairment topology and the rfc 1993 visa then we we are running the apr polling for the layer one types and the otna topology young if i'm not mistaken we received all the replies uh for the layer one types but we are still missing uh two or three of them for dft and topology so please um answer to the to the polling as soon as possible so that we can start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "like to to run a joint last call for for both of the documents then we have the otn the tunnel model these this one has been updated with consistent description on terminologies tree diagram and graphic and graphics it's technically stable uh i mean uh the authors said that they are trying to keep in alignment with with the generic uh model actually this is this is one of the many documents that have dependencies on the itft document from fronties we have also the transport ndi applicability stick statement this is a document that already went through the working group last call all the comments have been been addressed this is a pretty long and extensive document we tried to reduce a little bit we uh we reviewed it uh trying to cut some uh some fat and just leave with the meat around the bones uh i don't know if uh italo or dan have some updates on the progresses on the progresses of uh of the diet of the document please or or done if if you can hear us okay please i don't know i don't see that so well we have looked at your suggestions and we are going to review the document and update based on on your suggestions but we still need to do the work okay okay i mean at least you're fine with them that's a really good starting point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "moving on to the other documents these ones are so we have the client signal young model uh there is a number of pending issues resilience port layer etc uh the the authors are working on that then we have a set of uh documents which is uh moving a little bit slow but i mean i i fully understand that because we have a fairly reduced number of authors which is working on many documents in parallel and it's of course some of them are are progressed with the low priorities we are speaking here about the um dwdm interface lmp extensions but if i'm not mistaken this is already applicable also to the dwdm interface parameter young model then we have the flexi the young model for flex internet which was recently adopted there was a quite quite good support but after the adoption no big changes uh uh uh on on the documents so a little bit more more discussion and the more review from from from the entire working group would be would be great then we have two documents the basically the tunnel model for wson and for flexigreeta these are both pretty stable documents they've been out for a while both of them are blocked by the itf te model uh we were considering to merge the the two documents since both of them uh have uh common layer zero attributes so i mean this is something that we would like to to to discuss to to to reduce uh the effort from from the sg from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "reviewers to analyze a single document instead instead of two finally we have liaisons and communication we have two of them one from the etsy isg uh this is a a follow-up on the a young modeling for sdn sbi this is mostly focused on microwave if if i'm not mistaken and this uh the deletion is to announce the next uh round of applause test arranged by etsy you can find the uh the link to the to the liaison here but you can find it also on on the mailing list this was just for information we have also another liaison which which we received a couple of days ago so pretty fresh i i i just scanned through through it uh this is uh a liaison an invitation to update the information the imt 2022 and beyond roadmap so if if you're interested you can find a link to that as well here and on the main list if there is no comment i would move to the first presentation which is the uh young data model for microwave topology if i'm not mistaken scott is presenting it hello can you hear me all right out there in yes chair land okay great well welcome everyone to the um yang session for c camp it seems to be something that's very popular these days what i'm here to do is just to present very uh very quickly a update on where we are with the microwave topology yang"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "it's work that's been going on for a while we have a team the team that's up on there that are the authors of the of this update to the draft are ones that we participate in conference calls like every two weeks so if you're interested in this work we do have a lot of conversations so please join those if you go to the next slide please so the status is very simple we've uh we've taken the work that we were doing before and we've migrated it all to github we're using the uh the github templates from i think it's martin thompson and so we're using that to track our issues so if you're interested in this go there and you can see where we are and see the latest drafts we had minor changes very minor changes to the yang module we've completed the topology model figures fixed and validated things we've added some instance data and this is from then from daniella she did she did a great job on producing some some more examples so that you can see instance data and how it how it is used and we validated that using tools like in yanglin so if you go to next slide the so what do we have for issues so if you're interested in some of the issues that we're currently still working through and there's some tweaks around bandwidth utilization and there's a pointer to the issue and an issue around operational mode and this is something where we're trying to decide how to model the operational mode and trying to decide if we need to update the 8561 to support a different way of of supporting uh operational mode so if you're interested in that i have a private draft that i've started it's not public yet at all there's no zero zero or anything yet but there is a um github for that as well if you're interested in looking what we're thinking of doing there next slide the liaison that um daniella just to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "talk about is this etsy liaison from the microwave working group this is this provides a little more background on it and if you're interested in this i like this type of work because they're using the yang that the it the ietf creates they're using it in plug fests and actually validating that it works and finding issues and reporting back and those are all very useful things so there is a new an invitation here on what they're going to be doing next year so if you're interested in this kind of work especially around topology or around configuration microwave that's what this is about you can find more work there and find background there so go next slide please we're going to try to get the draft we want to get all of our issues done and and get all that stuff done and try to get a last call by next ietf next slide i think that's it is it the big thank you slide or is it the big empty slide i don't know what's next none of them none of them okay so it's uh so we have adrian in the queue and adrian's in the room thank you so much we're in the room but we've only got one functioning microphone between us hi this is adrian uh i'm standing here looking at scott which is kind of surreal for an online meeting um so thank you for uh re-spinning this this draft uh um and i i know you do all the work in github and and so on could you do me a favor and try to keep it alive going forward as um because it's really hard as you say when when people outside are picking up this stuff to use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "and they can't quite tell whether we've abandoned microwave or not i've been fielding questions on that oh thank you very much for that yes uh one thing that we're trying to do is do a lot more with our with our meetings and and publicize this using the github tooling but something that uh we should do more of is when we have a meeting we do put the minutes in github but we should do a better job of putting it out on the mailing list as well that would help people see that the work is still progressing especially if we're trying to get to last call by next meeting we need to start doing these last two issues and make sure that the mailing list sees the work as well that's a really good input appreciate that anything else i don't see anyone else request for ties requesting the floor go ahead so i have can you hear me yes okay i just have one you know open question for discussion so so far actually there are two drafts about young models for microville one is uh this draft about microwave topology another one is i've seen 85 61 about the young mod for microwave interface so i'm wondering yeah i'm wondering if if it needs a draft to define young models for forthano stuff like otn tunnel or you know double sun tunnel well that's uh i'm going to answer it the way a good chair would answer that if there if you feel that there's work that's necessary in that area please submit a individual draft and then we'll look at at doing that work i i think that there's the the work to be a little more serious in my answer the way that we're trying to do this work is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "we're trying to do it in a very modular way so that if people want to have things that run over top of this it's easy to to create augmentations that will then you do the other the the new functionality so hopefully that answers the question in a sensible way thanks okay thank you yeah all right thanks everyone thank you scott well actually i didn't have the feeling that this work was uh was stopped probably because i was following following the the minutes on on github etc but adriana raised a very good point um sending a link to the list would would be definitely helpful well my my response to that is just because i'm on the floor and nobody's requested it yet i think that it is very useful to remind people to do this sort of thing to continue the discussion on the mailing list is even if you're using github to make sure that the entire working group knows what's going on so thank you yeah definitely next one hello um danielle you wanted me to control it or you can help me control the slide i can do that for you okay perfect um so hi everyone um my name is iowa and i'm here presenting the second dra revision of the draft for the framework and data model for otn slicing um we have the co-authors and the contributors on next slides okay so since the last revisioning um becoming the working group of draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "we have updated both uh the text as well as the yam data model for otn slicing um so on the text side the the main change is that we added a section that describes the realization of ogn slices with the network resource petition um along with other cosmetic updates um for the young models so basically um there is a young model for the northbound of the otn slice controller which we made a shift from originally a stand-alone young model by into a an augmented model based on the um the model defined in the teeth working group of network slicing and bi yang and then we introduced the uh the constructs um that are common for um transport and network sizing and then we move along with the definition of the models um so you could see on the right uh the model relationship for the northbound interface being uh network slicing yang at the bottom then we introduced a transphonetic slice and then next will be the otn slice which contains otn technology specific attributes um so on the mpi basically the southbound of the ogn slice controller we renamed what was called idf otn slice into ietf otn slice mpi for the obvious reason that we wanted to preserve the name of ietf4tn slice for the mpi for the mbi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "next uh now or at the end do you prefer to take questions now or at the end um yeah we can we can take questions okay so my question here is he here you use the the itf transport network slicer because uh i guess here you it's it's a common layer between otn and other transporter layers like for example optical i guess or i don't know ethernet or whatever we can okay so um the transported network a common layer that applies for all uh transport network technologies including otn uh optical and uh microwave possibly right so i mean i like it has already been done for the common types like the layer zero types layer one types etc probably it would make sense to extract it from here and have it in a dedicated document because uh i mean one day if we want to build a specific i don't know uh wdm slice or a microwave slice having uh that the common transporter network slicer defined inside the dltn document is is a little bit ambiguous i i would say so uh i mean this is just my preference i'm not uh uh i'm not asking you to do that i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "asking the the the working group if uh what's what's his opinion uh here we we we can take it to the least uh uh but i mean i just wanted to raise uh to raise this point if that's a common uh module i would uh i would remove it from the otn slicing document and make it uh and make it calmer yeah sure um chairs that's a good uh suggestion i i we we definitely can discuss that and then basically can move it to a common model that applies to all transport technologies sorry sorry to interrupt you dhruv is that a reply to this question to this comment specific to what you just said okay please go ahead sorry yeah i think what is currently happening is the idea of otn slice that is currently not defined uh there is a section but that section is currently empty and what we basically have in this document is the itf transport network slice so what confusion is happening is the document is called otn but the yang model that is currently the main focus is the idea of transport network slice so i've urged the authors to think a little bit more and come up with a good strategy like you know maybe we may even have to rename the document if that comes to it that's an option yeah we can we can dedicate this document to the transporter network slice and have in a separate one otn specific augmentation that's that's fine as well yeah i see surgery in the cubicle surgery a short answer yes he's right it's partially right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "in the sense that from nbi uh prospective you're right so there is nothing uh specific for tien but the document is considering also the mpi extension for that point it is specific for otn so this is why we have not changed nothing for the moment but surely the suggestion from from transport uh networks lies that can be a different a separate document uh is is a good suggestion but the the the point is that at the moment the the the model is is dealing with two uh different uh type of uh model one for an mbi and this is an extension of the draft in which you so drew is working and the other one is for mpi thank you okay the presentation yeah i agree with sergio and on top of that there is also a framework which is really otn uh specific so the it's only the transparent nato slice the model which is generic so maybe we can figure out how to split the two dot the two pieces uh into two documents yeah okay so thank you please compliment um what italo has said so from the yamato development perspective we wanted to have the basic framework for transport network slice ready as a generic model and then we know what exactly we could put over um the otn slice model so basically we do it as a step-by-step approach but as i also agree with with the chairs and other comments we could consider"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "separate those two models into two drafts we could discuss that over the mailing list of that call okay so yeah next slides um so um for the uh consideration of using nrp for otn slicing so from from a constructor point of view the um what we see is that nrp could be used to to resolve the scalability issue that are mostly applied applicable to pacquiao networks and to help reduce the complexity of realizing slices in the data plane and control plane so the nrp is a con internal construct but could be configured by the uh underlying sdn controller which and the configuration could be pushed uh through the mpi to facilitate the slice realization um so now for otn um and possibly other transport networks um the resources um are like much course granular because of the uh because of the uh time tdm nature of the uh of the network uh so in this case uh we could see that uh the use of nrp it's still optional but certainly will have its benefit to support large-scale networks and also if we consider that in the future uh when we see uh for example otn data plane will start to evolve um for example there are proposals about uh considering to develop a sub one gotn um so in that case then the complexity of supporting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "slicing for otn networks will also become much much more complex and then in that case the use of nrp has certainly has its benefits so all those texts text has been put into the draft for the consideration of the audience um next yeah so we put in the draft a diagram about uh how we could realize ogn slices with the nrp uh so from the uh from the from the uh diagram you can see the nrp is used to map otn slices from external configuration into a internal topology right and that each of the nrp topology is is uh linked to an underlaid otnt topology which is received from the from the otn um pnc controller or mdsc controller from the from the southbound and um so basically um the otn slice controller could choose to use the uh nrp for resource reservation right and in that case we we see that um the uh cardinality between otn slice topology and nrp topology is uh one to one um so in that case um then we don't need to to specify to directly basically make a coloring configuration on the underlay t topology but if the nrp topology is not used then when the user configures multiple slices and decided to to map it on to directly onto the underlay topology then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "then we need to sort of color each of the resources of the online topology and send it to the otn um pnc controller so that's the two options that we can see of using nrp versus not using our nrp next page please so on the young model ends this is a brief glimpse of the young model for the transport network slice so basically it introduced a section of network topologies in addition to the base model from from these so from a northbound perspective a user could configure a transport network slice by specifying topologies and then it could also designate a an explicit path based on the topology to each of the connectivity constructs okay next page please so um there are a couple of open issues um of of the modeling so one open issue which also has been mentioned in the t's network's license modeling discussion is how we could define uh technology-specific attributes right so currently uh the the design in the teas networks icon is to try to use an opaque definition of attributes that can and and try to capture technology specific um parameters um and they are in the form of key value pairs right so what we see is um there might be some issue with this uh approach is uh in that you know the most important part is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "there is probably need to be a implementation implementation agreement uh in addition to the yale model to make sure full interoperability could be achieved because the the attributes are more opaque and you don't really know what is the what's the meaning behind those opaque values right and some other you know concerns is about those opaque values cannot be explicitly validated with the young schema and it may not may have an issue capturing complex attribute structures um so with regards to otn slicing um so the um our preference is to go directly with explicit and technology specific attributes and probably we're not going to use the opaque definition of the of the attributes um so but that will continue working on that and to discuss with the with the network slice young team and try to figure out the best way to move forward juve question event finish your presentation uh you wanted to ask a question or you want me to move forward oh okay because i have multiple questions so it's better to do it at the end okay yeah so okay next page okay another issue is to so right now we could see there are there could be multiple options for the mpi uh model uh one using uh nrp and the other one of not using nrp and in which case we identified um some gaps in the current topology and we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "added an option for for coloring the links in the in the model right so the question is really if we define a standard draft whether it is necessary uh to include multiple optional npi models or we we you know it's better for um to go with one option so that's something you know probably we could raise this to the working group and see what we can do with the with the model okay next page okay here are the next steps so we are to address open issues and then we continue to work with the nether slice and bi yang and to align the two models um so and also we are going to define um otn technology specific models based on the common transfer net network slice model which includes adding a technology specific slo sle for otn and we are to support both connection based and resource based slicing and also support for multi-technology links like those links with which is non-otn um yeah and um the github repo and um we have a weekly call uh every thursday now um we would like to uh welcome and more um participants um and we like to um to receive more comments from the working group thank you okay droop and adrian and then you i i closed the queue because we are already 10 minutes late yeah i'll try to be uh very quick uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "with respect to nrp uh i think we need to also clarify would there be any interaction between nrp in the ip layer and the nrp here or are they going to be completely independent because that was not very clear from the document and the related question from the yang modeling since there is a model for nrp in teas would there be any interaction between that model is that model also supposed to be some kind of generic model whereas the nrp otn is going to be something specific these things are not very clear from nrp point of view so i think little bit more uh thought is needed uh the second thing which i wanted to talk about was the topology part since we have added that topology in the in the model and we had one discussion in the tease also that what if a teas model used the vn type 2 mechanism where we put a reference to an abstract topology same as what we do in vn type 2. would that meet your requirement or you still need a topology separate from that in the t so uh like think about that and like you know discuss with the tease authors and let's come up with a good solution here thank you okay let me make a quick comments yes um so i agree with you um one of the uh main uh driven factor for for defining a common model for transport is we don't have an option to specify topology in the base model um so yeah but short answer is it depends and then we we could discuss that offline to figure out the best way to have the support for topologies hi it's adrian i wanted to just take the time to say thank you for doing the work to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "integrate with the [Music] the tease slicing service model since i asked for that the document's much cleaner as a result and then since the the discussions moved in that direction um we do need to step back and try to understand whether a slice is supposed to expose anything about the underlying topology in that concept of a slice service and it may be that the type of work that we want to do here exposes topology and therefore we should stop talking about slices and continue to talk about virtual network topologies and if we want to integrate ourselves with slicing we have to understand that the slicing service a bit like a vpn service is has an opaque view of the of the underlay thank you thanks a lot next one is omiano can you hear me yes okay uh thank you and good day everybody this is hamir from huawei and i'm presenting this level 1 connectivity service model on behalf of all the authors and contributors next page please yeah so this one is a brief update on the status and it has been a while since our last presentation it was in itf 109 for version 13 and after that we have actually a few updates over there but i think the major one would be uh to address the comments in the young doctor alaska review uh we provided more this detailed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "description uh in some of the lyft notes and we moved the json example to the appendix so basically it tried it was trying to to clarify uh those descriptions in the models that may cause some confusions and we are having one github repository uh available uh on this early one csm and we check it out because it's very close to the working group last call and we figure out there are two issues to be discussed so that would be the next two pages next please and the first open issue is uh actually a hello high level one the question is about okay how to coordinate the performance monitoring stuff regarding the layer one connectivity in this document and the other document so our current scope is we are coordinating with the performance monitor metrics specified in math 63 and it would be useful if we could also reconcile with itu-t document like g.a.26 but we also have received some comments say whether it is useful to coordinate with other pm models like the one in our working group as individual draft client signal performance monitoring and some other like the vpn pm ippm and whatever so yeah uh well but but that part of the work is just starting so we are providing a few options that can be considered as resolutions and the first option would be okay how about if we remove the the pm related part and then proceeded and leave this work to other tpm models and this one is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "the authors uh having some kind of preference to this option and the second option would be leave it with only math 63 alignment and the option three is okay we should redo the pm part i see john try the mac uh now the next page please okay and the next issue is about the descriptions in the young itself and the problem was according to math 63 the configuration of the protocol coding function and the interface functions attributes should be consistent and there are some kind of constraint when given the definite when people give the definitions of such kind of parameters we were trying to describe in the young grammar but after uh checking with the young experts in that mode we find okay this is not accomplished achievable and we finally decided to to tweak only the uh descriptions in the module so we will do a review another iteration of global review and update to the description by adding the constraints okay next please okay then we okay i think we are listed to discuss about the three options for issue one and if we can reach our agreement we can do an update and request working group last call and that's all for the draft presentation thank you so i would i would suggest to i mean since we are pretty close to the the last call of this document i would bring the two open issues to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "to the main list to see what's the opinion of the working group and then i think we're done there is some problem i i i can't see the video any longer i i didn't know if it was my problem or it's in the room looks a problem in the meeting room look at the chat okay network issues okay but the others can can still hear it looks like the remote offline part is good yes okay it's the on-site people who are let's move on then since we are already pretty pretty late so we have slot 4 presented by sergio okay good morning good afternoon good evening depending on location so i'm sergio bellotti i'm going to present the update of the optical impairment topology model on behalf of cultures and contributors next slide okay so as we have a weekly call the major activities since its routine we have the usual weekly call on tuesday from 2 30 pm everybody is welcome to attend and so the the the meeting is open and welcome"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "to us other uh other people we updated both the text and the young model the the first update has been done uh related to uh an issue that is there from from a while is not trivial so i mean we started to have a general requirement regarding the otsi terminology alignment with g807 we have not completed that in the sense that uh surely before uh to have a stable version uh and to be ready uh for for last school and uh and the young daughter review we need to have a complete review on that but we started to do that we we added a section at the 2.2.3 section uh to clarify the relationship so first to clarify why we need to have ots ig information in the context of the topology model and what we we agree is that the the presence of the utsi is important in the view of the otsi global unique identification so in the model our approach is to have a hierarchical approach in which we have a no tsi group id that is identified uniquely the ots ig in the network and then they contain otsi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "identifier that is providing the the the local uh scope of in the context of this side group [Music] there is a lot of noise i don't know if for everybody is the same well okay uh then we we added a a section regarding a unidirectional trial so the the point is that the the in the case of unidirectional transponder a unidirectional 3r the transceiver of each optical transponder receive the signal from one cent and transmit the regenerator optical signal in the other urgent adherence segment so in the case of carrier for the carrier frequency we can operate a different frequency optical frequency between the receiver and the transmitter but uh in the model we have defined the transceiver capabilities that is the transceiver mode and this is a property of the transceiver it is applied at the at the same time to the transmitter and the receiver so the transceiver mode has to be the same in the two segment of the two side of three hour generator so for this reason the transceiver mode can be cannot be changed in the context of um of uni-directional 3r we added specific tests for that and then we started to have a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "section regarding the protection architecture for the young model we we fix two issue uh that is basically uh regarding the uh tilt target uh to to clarify the the context of the tilt turret it is related to the upper and lower frequency of amplifier we introduced modification regarding the protection modeling this is a work on going but we started on that and we started to to make a modification and we have other issue that is impacting the young but the the these are fixing in the context of itf layer 0 type but is still related to the to the optical impairment next slide okay uh so we we said that we started to work on the optical protection uh so in case of the optical protection uh as depicted in the in the up part of the drone uh they at the splitter the signal uh is a is a dupli optical duplicated before entering to the airdrop part of the rodent and at the selector one of the two signal from the drop ports of the rodent is selected there is no problem in that there you have end to end otsi a single one in case uh but the problem is uh uh is is uh is uh uh in the conte in the case in which you have one of the length that is uh with the triar regenerator because in this case the part the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "end-to-end part or tsi is blacked is broken and we have no more end-to-end rtsi next slide so they they what we need to have in the topology model so in the topology module the path computation need to know the existing otsi in each omx section for the reason to determine what are the optical impairments of the existing otsi on the calculation of the optical flexibility of the newer tsi and the opposite so the impact of the new rtsi with respect to the existing one so in the case of protection uh the the question that the the the autos put on the demo is how to represent the existing ltsi already there in the network uh so we uh there is a we have two optical seniors at the up are the at the input the selector that may have optical impairments impact because is is linked to the different parts and in case and the optical feasibility has to check anyway in the two parts because we need to be independent of uh the action related to the switching for the protection so uh our solution next slide uh for the for the representation of the otsi is to have only one otsi but with the representing all the associated parts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "related to the otsi so in this case that is related to the same picture of slide 3 we have one otsi but we have an impact on the optical impeller with different three parts related to the same otsi so in the model from young perspective we associated to the otsi with a list of parts that we may we name n and c part there is a basic physical assumption that at the ingress of or and aggress of a splitter and selector dots identify is the same and the nmc are can are different the nmc parts are different in the same same way the in that the oms section will we will have the reference to all the utsi and the reference to the related parts for each other next this is a the modification of the young the on the right on the on the left we have the the definition of the ots ig and the related otsi and for each otsi we added the the a list of a related nmc part identifier at the same time in the context of the oms section uh we have uh the the the the media channel group the ltsi g that is related to the specific media channel and the list of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "otsi related with the specific related nmc part to specific to that to the ltsi next so what are the open issue that we are needed to work on the first one is that we need to complete the optical protection switch that is a work on going um then there is the the model the the there is a a an issue related to supported remote optical transponder the model is already able to support the remote optical transponder connected to the wdm node but we need to explain in a specific text how the model is is supporting the different scenarios there is an issue that is related to the expert in in life ref we open we discussed with the expert like robertson about the net mode in the network because we have in mind that to uh sudden to use unchester function but there is still debate on the topic and for example in the context of the flex grid we practically decide to come back to the relative path part there is a a need that for a review technology that has been addressed partially and that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "there is a a an issue related to the boundary between layers the only one because the the model there are some functionality like effect inverse multiplexing that is a layer one functionality but is in the scope because he is a related to the transponder so he's in the scope of this document and we need to clarify in the text that then there is a a specific uh issue that is related to the process improvement and a new one that is related to the usage of container is not a big issue it's just a need to review when the usable container as in immediate parent of a list is really needed in the model or not we have our github and every there is the minutes there there is all the issue that is described so everything that is summarized here you can find that in the github uh next next step okay we need to complete the otsim protection model we address the representation of the otsi but we need to adding the report optical protection capability including oms protection we need to address the rest of the list the the issue that at the moment are eight if i remember well uh analyze possible enhancement uh apart protection that we should cover as future and the intention would be to have a stable version by a next itf 115 and then be ready for a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "young doctor review that's all from my side thank you questions welcome i'll prepare the next slides i don't see any questions so sergey you probably can start with the 1993 base okay they um we have a first presentation last time about the rfc 1993 bs and that these slides [Music] represent the fact that we changed the quotas because we encompass the cover part of both the documents so the original rfc 1993 and the layer zero type extension draft so this is why there is a long list of quotas uh next slide so a short background so we we um we we have obsolete um this document the intention is to obsolete 1993 encompassing the content of the rfc with the layer 0 type extension drafts there is a specific github and basically the work has been started when in the view to match the comment received at the itf on under 12. we are we have restructured the document draft itf layer zero type extension to become"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "rfc 1993 now for itf 14 we fixing the uh the issue 48 so the content of the layer zero type extension have been moved into the layer zero type uh younger so we have only one module the encompassing uh all and we okay we delete it in the repository the uh [Music] the itf layer zero type extension yang we fixing a lot of uh issue for uh these itf um partially there are three issues that i said before in the presentation for optical impairment that is directly related to the optical impairment topology model next thank you okay this is a first issue that we we fixed we added a new modulation format and the description uh that we realized was missing in the model next uh here practically the 4233 is related to uh to fix a wrong reference um from the the the for the left uh we need that to we have modified the reference in the definition of the operational mode uh there is a wrong reference for the iqt instead we uh added in yellows in the in the slides uh a specific the specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "reference of the section in the optical impairment draft in which we describe what does it mean operational uh mode on the right part uh there is a wrong reference with respect rfc 6205 in the frequency definition and we delete that next okay here uh the the the the we have fixed uh three uh related one to the other uh issue that is related to the penalty definition and the associated accumulated value uh the originally the model uh presenting the the combination of chromatin dispersion and polarization moist this person with associated penalty so is a was a triplet a list of triplet now we have a separate list of pair accumulated effect and associated penalty and we also modified the penalty description and we modified that align with also the strictly aligned with what open config is providing next so this is the modification related to the pair of effect plus penalty so we have now the list of chromatic dispersion penalty polarization dispersion penalty we have already the pdl related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "penalty already made with the effect plus associated penalty that was in the original document next thank you uh we clarified the meaning of an attribute that uh it was uh original provide a lot of discussion uh in the group so we we had a the central frequency step but was there was some misunderstanding on the meaning and uh we clarified that the attribute is dealing with the granularity of the transmitter turnability of the carrier center frequency and so we have updated both the name of the attribute with the transceiver tunability and the description of the attributes next we clarify the intention this comment from jana and that is correct the comment so we need to uh revise the section of the january as suggested next so next step we still need to reconcile the test in the introduction from rfc 1993 with the one from layer 0 type extension and we need to complete the appendix a in which we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "listed that we should list the changes from lsc 1993 and we need to fix the remaining issue that is provided in the our github uh that's all for my side thank you questions we know young data model for network hardware inventory you hear me you hear me yes perfectly okay thank you okay hello everyone i'm chapter from hawaii i'm glad to do this presentation on behalf of all the contributors our job is dealing with network hardware inventory management and provides a young data model which can be used in the northbound of network controller that's like this after last presentation in camp we have triggered some discussion on the main list to find a suitable working group to continue our job but no feedback is received so we continue to specify our jobs in camp and keep some other working group informed these are the updates to our job since last itm meeting for the first part of the of our work uh we have apps uh we added"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "uh more attributes to the young data model based on the model defined in rfc 8348 and some integration experience at first we have identified some common attributes such as uid name areas description and location which can apply to all the unwanted objects and secondly uh for the component object of narrow element we have reused most of the attributes from fc 8348 with some refinement that will be introduced in detail in the next several slides please notice that these refinements are limited in the scope to our draft we don't plan to update abc8348 and third for the right object besides the common attribute we have also defined some specific attributes such as height wise and depth and for never element we all agree that most of the attributes in absolute 834a defined for components are also applicable for network the second part of our work is we continue the discussion of scalability issues raised in last version the conclusion will be also introduced in the following slide okay let's go with the refinement introduced at first next page please in the data model of fc8348 a component parallel reference attribute is defined with this model uh if the refcom client want to find the uh find these components grand prime or higher hierarchical level component you need to do the retrieval step by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "step which is time consuming so we suggest to provide a full release of hierarchical parent identifiers to to reduce this repeated work this model could also support more philosophical retrieval function for example the kind can get one or more uh component level to find his contained trial components okay let's start let's take please after we will the uh attributes defined in fc 8348 and we collected some requirements from operators we think that there are some components with the attribute missing in rc8348 so we have designed a choice case structure as a placeholder for defining these extensions the cases are distinguished by their cast so that different component specific attribute could be defined in a separate container the details in each of these specific info containers are still under discussion next page please this is a minor change in rc 8348 uh the preferred value for model name of the component is his prime number according to the young description actually the part number is more recognized term than model name so we have renamed the attribute to part number directory network please here's a here is an open discussion about the design of location in fc 8348 there were two attributes named by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "physical index in parent relative position which can be used as location info but if the kind want to have a components absolute location the client needs to retrieve its parent component one by one we're currently evaluating two different design approach to solve these problems uh the first option provide a hierarchical structure just like the parent identifier identify list these in previous slides this line this design can support similar flexible retrieval like i mentioned previously but this structure is less flexible and risk risks to be applicable to optical network animal only the second option is to define the location as a string attribute for optical narrow animals a string pattern can be defined to contain similar position information like option 1 but because because it is a string format a different pattern can be used in other scenario so the same so we consider this option is more flexible but the same concern is we are not sure whether this string pattern is applicable only to optical network enemies or not but we have noticed that in open config open complete also use a string pattern to provide location info okay let's fly please and for the discussion of a scalability issue we have checked all the discussion programs in github if you are interested"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "in the discussion progress you can you can have a look at the issue issue 32 in github here we just want to introduce our conclusion due to a time limitation we think that the scalability issues uh will surely happen in big networks uh regardless what kind of young data model is adopted and this issue can also be found in other data models integration such as 4g and servers or tunnel etc the root cause of the scalability issue comes from the limited transfer capability of http particles maybe some other export mechanism can help to solve this problem but it is truly out of school for our job the full synchronization scenario usually happen on day one at day one of the first integration the api used mostly in in in daily maintenance are never ending based and there were limited data in one level animal so the scalability issue may be less impacting as originally we have also considered an alternative model uh which define inventory object uh directly instead of a gillette generic component so it is it's much easier to understand but it it would be less flexible to support new in one to have hardware type than defining a general model object as done in in current model so we plan to continue our work with the current with our current model okay let's pay please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "as a summary we have introduced a attribute discussion and scalability issue discussion today and for the next step since we have decided to continue to move forward with the current model and enrich a lot of attributes on it we think that our draft is now ready for second working group adoption uh we also uh we are also looking forward to get some input from other technologies such as ip and microwave to cover more application scenario and we also plan to cause some more open issues before next itf meeting if you are interested in interested in our job we want to welcome you to join our discussion and we have a weekly meeting every wednesday and if uh and you can find more info uh mission from github thank you okay that's that's all for my presentation uh presentation today thank you again thank you thanks a lot uh so yes just just to recap i mean uh when when this light this draft was first presented that we thought that it was a good idea to discuss with the net mode if what was the right place for it and i mean uh in the end we decided to continue this work in c camp um does does anyone believe that this is not the belonging to to see camp maybe the question is uh mostly to john do you think well of course any progress will be discussed and aligned with the with network we will have a sort of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "frequent uh liaison relationship with them about the draft but i mean if uh if there is interest in the working group to to progress the work in c camp uh i'm i'm pretty fine with that okay thank you since you asked me i'll come to the mic and answer but my only answer right now is i don't have an intelligent answer for you i'm sorry reserve response okay thanks we can we can discuss this offline but i mean thanks thanks a lot to the others for uh uh for the progresses and to to explain uh the issues and the uh homing of the draft thank you next one we have now we tallow if i'm not mistaken yep thanks okay thank you mr chairman i'm italo from huawei um i'm presenting a new draft on otm computation next slide please on behalf of quarters and contributors okay the initial proposal for otimpa computation rav was presented uh into in itf 112 and together with w zone flexigrid and the feedback in the itf 2013 discussion was to split the otm part on a different rafter so now we moved the otm computation into this new drafter the work is quite straightforward we are augmenting the path computational rpc defined by teaser witho technology specific attributes defined in layer one types and we are keeping these augmentations in alignment with the other models since the computation tunnel models needs to be in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "sync and at this point that we don't have any major technical issues to move forward the document next slide so the next steps is of course to get feedbacks and comments from the working group and progress it accordingly we will keep alignment if there is any change in the authentic model which have an impact on the computation we will keep an alignment and we will complete the document adding the security management manageability considerations which are currently empty sections and we believe the document is now ready for working group adoption that's all thank you on to the empire competition yeah just just a very minor commenter keep in alignment with the ltn tunnel model but also probably the fat computation modeling computation yes you're right yes but yes i guess i agree i mean it's uh it seems to be something pretty pretty straightforward in in my opinion i guess we have a similar presentation for the optical one right yeah it is about the optical and next slider okay the document itself has not been updated yep okay the document has not been updated but as i said before we removed the computation otn so the document is now focused and will be progressed only to address uh w zone and flex degree the path computation like before it is an augmentation of the computation reference and reusing the common types in the llc 1993 bs and alignment with the tunnel models for ws and reflected reader so also this one is quite straightforward even though we have a little bit more open issues given the complexity of the wwm technology we are discussing those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "issues together with the flexibility and tunnel model weekly calls on thursday and what we have done we have reviewed some use cases for the wm tunnel model and identify the some changes to the tunnel common attributes which has been reflected in the rsc 1993 b's draft update which is it is a grouping used by our model but it has been updated in that draft next slide please the major issue that uh yeah the major yeah uh okay yeah yes this is a major issue that you're facing now is whether we are able to merge the ws and flexibility composition modes in the current mod in the current graph we have two modes and we can see that there are some things which are different like the label the w zone and flexibility specific labels but there are a lot of items which are in common within www specific constraints like osnr margin and layer zero tunnel common attributes are really really the same between the two models and and there is a desire to try to see if you can merge these two modes into one model we have the similar discussion also for in the context of the tunnel model whether we can merge also doubles and flexibility tunnel modes so the suggestion here is maybe we need to investigate defeat the technical impact whether this is possible for both tunnel and pac computation and then we can bring the option to the working group and hopefully have the common approach between composition and tunnel model on merging the the two little modes the wizard and flexity part next slide okay what are the next steps okay is still to progress the worker getting feedbacks and comments on any part of the document we need to do some editorial update to remove what is now moved to the other draft to avoid any overlapping"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "we have to evaluate this option to merge the two modus into one model and and as i said before we since we are we need to keep alignment with ws on flexibility tunnel modes and the rfc bs as well as the computation model in the teaser so if there is any impact there with any change there which impact this model we need to take into account and other security manageability considerations to the document never even if there are more open issues here than the previous law and the previous draft i think we think this this open issue can be addressed through normal working group process so we think this draft is also really for working group adoption thanks thank you yeah i mean you already said that i mean uh ideally we should try to keep an alignment between the tunnel models and the fat computation models if we merge zone and flexigrid on one side we need ideally to merge it and also also on the other uh personally i had to look at it and my personal opinion is is that uh a merger would would be possible i don't see any major uh major issues speaking about both the tunnel model and and the part complication models i don't know if if if you have found anything that could be a show stopper here for the merge have you eaten uh yeah it's just to understand the implication okay great thanks now we have the last presentation of the day"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "iowa again please again that describes a problem statement and identified gaps when we are to connect [Music] you mute yourself there's a lot of echoes okay so um a recap of uh what is the motivation for this draft uh basically it's it's simple um the cloud traffic can be carried over ip based in networks from end user to uh to the to the cloud but um with the with with that we could also um carry the traffic over uh uh and underlay uh optical networks uh to achieve uh high quality and premium services uh such as you know cloud vr premium leased alliance etc and um this uh this approach uh is not a replacement of ip based solution but more complements what has been uh available with the ip based network system so the traditionally speaking the connections in in otn networks are more like pre-configured aesthetic with a fixed mapping between the client services to the ogn connections in the network so now with with the cloud-based traffic um the traffics are more uh dynamic uh so in order to make the optical network um to better support uh cloud-based services uh we would want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "make the ogn more dynamically configured and because that we are looking into the the gaps with current control plane support for um otn networks next the page okay so a quick update a summary of the updates so before this revision we spend quite some chapters talking about the use cases which a lot of the use cases are actually asking for requirements for uh for otm-based data plane uh so this is not the focus for ietf so we have moved uh and consolidated all those use cases into a description of within the overview section and we clearly state that the data plan requirements are out of the scope for for this draft uh also in this revision we added a gap analysis for the current control plan protocol and we also started adding uh some framework description um for this um for this uh draft next page please okay so from the requirement perspective uh so cloud services are usually uh hosts hosted in multiple clouds that are in different locations and in order to support that we need to um we need to support multi-cloud access and that multi-cloud access could be done by running layer 2 vpn or layer 3 vpn over otn so this uh so the support for the p2mp and mp2mp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "connections can be done by by layer two and layer three with otn typically we we still have just point-to-point connections but the potentially we could have the control plane support also for p2mp and mp2mp directly over the otn networks next page so one one of the key problem with current otn is if it's if it's all static and pre-configured then when there's a change in cloud traffic we will need to ask the network operator or uh or some tools to configure the network in order to meet the change in traffic um so that's uh where uh so the the the thought is okay if we have the otn network to be able to understand um that what is the current uh traffic coming into uh coming into otn and what is their qrs requirements then we could adjust uh dynamically otn bandwidth and the ogn tunnel the connections through the otn network to make to better support the um the the client traffic uh doing that requires um the uh the so the otn uh edge devices uh to be able to sense some uh information about the traffic and exchange the reachability as well as the declined information associated with the pe nodes and in order to be able to dynamically map the client services onto"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "onto either existing otn connections or it could start creating dynamic odn connections on the fly and we are looking into how the current control plane can do that uh next page um so as we said like um there's potentially a gap with the current control plane protocols in order to communicate the client information between the otm otm pe nodes and doing so so if we exchange information directly between the otm p nodes um you know if you look at the network you would have to create like a measure of communication between the p nodes but so instead we could uh use a reflector such as the controller to help with the exchange and so there needs to be a protocol between the pe nodes and and the controller between the p nodes and the controller to do this job so there are some possible solutions protocol solutions available in the ccap space psap ls or bgpls it could could potentially serve the purpose now with the optical network so we typically there's no bgp support on the otn devices because also i think this is this is not an updated version of the draft but anyhow so basically there's no bgp extension support for optical networks and um that and we believe uh with pc pls it could be a better candidate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "for the extensions next page okay so in order to support that uh what we need to do is under on pe nodes we need to identify what type of services are coming into the otn network this could be and this could be done by inspecting for example packet headers that arrives at an ogn pe nodes and the information such as source and destination mac source and destination ip address the vrf identifier and vlan id etc could be used to to identify the type of service and then with that service information the otn network could map create a mapping between the type of service and onto an existing otn tunnel or if needed it needs it can be it can create a dynamic otn tunnel within the within the network and um even even further uh if um it sends that the the traffic demand from the client has changed uh so it could actually make a um some dynamic bandwidth change uh on a bandwidth adjustment on an existing origin tunnel to meet the demand of the of this of the client service next page so um yeah i think this this one has already been mentioned uh the the service information could be reported uh to the uh the controller and exchanged between the the pe nodes so when the psat protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "is considered then we could define extensions as a p type report message next the page also on the configuration of service mapping um the um we need a control plane extension to push the mapping table between uh between between the service to uh odu connections from between the two pe nodes as well as between the p nodes and the controller which server says in the reflector um and uh in that case when the psat protocol is considered then we could define extension as a p-sub-update message next page yeah so just a few next steps we could consider to integrate the framework section into this draft which we have already started working on it with this revision and then we'll prepare the draft um to ask for working group adoption um and also i would like to call for interest and any anyone interested in his draft to join the work and contribute to the uh to the to the to this draft and we also would like to solicit the comments from the working group and then based on that we could discuss start discussing about potential protocol extension i believe this is the next the last page yeah okay thank you any comments or suggestions thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "i i have uh we have two questions probably two to two silly ones the the first one is uh um so you're saying that the bgp is not uh commonly used in uh otn uh otn devices because it's an overkill i mean pgpls is much lighter i i thought it was uh uh pretty much uh uh common to have at least the bgpls i'm not speaking about b2b but bgpls in uh on devices isn't that yeah this is uh as far as i can um as far as i know um there is there is not much of a bgp use in optical networks and also like i said there's there's no extensions for optical networks in bgp or bgpls so that that's probably another gap that prevents bgp from being used in in optical domain okay and the other question so we have requirements like multi-cloud access then we have uh um service identification and mapping i mean going through going through the presentation i had the feeling that this is uh not very different from audi and slicing is it uh this is uh well i mean otn slice is uh could be an application uh so you could create an otn slice by using the support for this cloud to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "user to cloud mapping this is basically this describes a possible implementation at the control plane to support uh one type of voltage and slice if you if you consider that but the the uh the use of this work is mainly to uh introduce the the service driven capability for otn so that you know we could better support cloud-based services by directly running that over otn networks so basically without without audience creating otn slices you could still use this capability to support to carry otn carry data data centered oriented traffic i don't know if i made it more yeah yeah actually yeah i don't know if uh slicing is a subset of this scenario or or this scenario is uh uh uh is the other way around is this scenario is a subset of slicing but i mean this is something that we can discuss we have two people in the queue yelina please i think we need some uh calculation among several concepts one is uh the idea presented by iowa and another is the the layer one ot layer one vpn and also the third one the uh otn slicing just uh danielle mentioned uh to my understanding the differences between the for example the layer one vpn and this idea is that um actually we are the same using otn as the underlay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "for the overlay network i think for l1 vpn it is a kind of carrying layer 1 services but in this idea i see a lot of layer 2 layer 3 services because data centers always use the layer 2 layer 3 services layer 1. so i think that's the in my understanding that the key differences between layer 1 otn sorry layer 1 vpn and this idea and for network slicing my understanding is that now slicing is only for the otn resources itself not touching on the overlay layer i'm not sure if i understand correctly but maybe i could the author of this document of this uh document could check yeah that's my comments thank you uh yes to um respond to your comments yes so the otn slicing does not capture it does not care what kind of services is running uh it just captures the requirement for that for let's say a qos of the slice and then um as i mean for me this work could be used to serve as the realization of a slice in the in the otn network with control plane okay groove uh regarding the work that you are suggesting uh extension for pisa are they really audience specific or are they quite general like some of the things that i see which is saying identification for slice that would be common whether it is uh like you know normal uh network or it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "is otn so just think about that as well it's because the work is already happening and if you have any specific requirement maybe we can uh try to have one extension which takes care of everything rather than having audience specific piece of extensions for things which are actually going to be quite generic yes uh drew good comments um i i think uh the a lot of the definitions uh are uh should be common um so i i so i agree with you we need to define the the extensions as common as possible um it's not it's not i think it's not otn uh specific but could be used by by this scenario to identify the type of services okay yes you know okay since there is time i take the opportunity to answer to the question from daniele i think that it is both the subset that you mentioned in other words i i think that this solution can be a one way to realize an audience license so this is a subset of slicer but ots licensing can be one way to request the to express the intent for a service that is realized by this solution but maybe other way to request this service to be realized so it's both and a subset of this license is accepted of these thank you okay thank you make sense thanks for the qualification so given this is the last session of the atf meeting i think you would be happy to have five minutes back and either uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "run to the airport or go for dinner if you are in europe and go to sleep if you are in asia thanks a lot everyone bye bye bye [Music] bye thank you thank you bye"
  }
]
