[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "If I do it, enact me, will you do it in here? Is that a yes? Okay. Alright. That's horse trading. Alright. So I'll remind you that the note well Please, this this is what governs the way we work here in terms of your rights, privileges, responsibilities, Please make sure you are aware of this before you contribute. I'm I'm Also, a brief reminder of living the code of conduct, And bottom line is please treat each other with respect at all times. We have a very long agenda. Which is, Hopefully, the first part will go very, very rapidly. And then, it'll slow down as we get deeper into the agenda. We have 2 sessions. We'll go as far as we can today. And then we will move to, you the whatever we don't get to today, we'll go to the the second session There's a bunch of pages to this. There any agenda bashes. Hey. Wouldn't it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "cool to talk about the, non draft for the CSR to provide fresh freshness for it. Absolutely. Okay. That is a, At this point, I believe it's an individual draft. Is that right? We have not yet adopted it. So Yep. We'll deal with that. In, section 6. Thank you. Any other agenda batches. Okay. Then, This is the part where many of the Presentations do not need slides, but the first one up did provide slides. So let me go find this this Hello. It's John. Can you hear me? Welcome. Boy, are you screaming? Please Oh, am I screaming? Sorry. I I I don't usually talk that loud, so anyway. Okay. If you can hear me, great. Greetings from Canada. 1:30 AM here. So I just have one slide to present. It'll be very quick on the camera we're camera SIP and info update. I guess when the slide comes up, you can go to the next slide. Yeah. So this has worked with the rest of Toma Fumman as well. Sure you all know and love this draft. So this draft, very quickly, there was a bit of, a bounce going on. So at the last, since the last IETF, it was temporarily bounced back into the working group because there was a bunch of cussions, on whether the ciphertext, should be included as an input to the KDF anyway, so a bunch of discussions, long story short. Ultimately, no changes are made document. Other than we highlighted at the introduction of the document. The required security properties of a chem algorithm, and that was already had already been in the security section at back of the document. Security considerations already contained that. So, anyway, that basically, so bounced back. And right now,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "the doc is currently in the RFC editor's queue. So Yay. So I don't know if there's any questions about that, but, Better. Any questions? I don't know what that means. I'm not seeing any John, and I don't see anybody in the Okay, great. Thanks. Right? K. The, next draft is the nfeku It is also in the RC editor's queue. As a matter of fact, it's in auth 48. So bets like the the the the absolute last stages before it becomes an RFC. Is there anything the authors need to give us an update about k. Seeing none. No one jumping into the queue. The next one is, PKCS12 using PBMac 1. Hubert I believe this is also in the RC editor's queue. Is there anything you need to share with us? K. Cool. The next one is the X 509 policy graph. Which, David Benjamin's document and I think it actually is an RFC now. But, no, it's still in the R Sander's queue. Okay. Any Is David even in the Nope. room? K. I saw it just I spoke to him in the hall a minutes ago. Alright. few"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Alright. Fair enough with that. And, The next one is header protection. So this one has been having a lot of discussions in IETF Last call, TKG to Did you send slides on this? You did? Okay. Yep. They're there. Yes. Okay. There it is. Okay. I'm gonna talk about both, the header protection and and then email security guidance. Document in one side deck. They're both clearer. Right? Yep. It's one side deck covers them both. Pretty So the head of protection document has had some substantive changes since last meeting we got a lot of good feedback in the, from last call and, ISG review. This is a list of some specific changes. There's nothing really radical here. We didn't actually change specifically what's happening, but what we did there is a registry for the header confidentiality policies, requested for my Anna. We've clarified something about, you know, what the header confidentiality you could produce Again, it's not an actual concrete change, but it is, a a clarification there. No longer edging, IANA, about the content type parameters registry. That doesn't exist, and we don't wanna create one here. And we expanded some security considerations and tightened up the musts and the shoulds for conformant mail user agents. So the idea is if you're gonna conform to this, let's be a little bit clearer about what you should do. Or what you must do. You're not gonna conform with it, well, then you're not bothering with those Master Associates. It now formally updates 8551"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "because the wrapped message section actually makes a little bit of a tweak to the the older style of head of protection that no one have actually implemented or deployed. Just wanted to add a pointer from 8551 to this. And we did some cleanup of the pseudo code just to get the variable name more consistent across it. It is still in the misraff state. Waiting on the end and email guidance, next slide. So one thing that has happened Since we are when I added it the review, they passed it on to the designated expert they came back with a question about how the if you'll recall, draft introduces 2 new fields that are HP removed that is ahead of production removed, and HP obscured that are used so that we have a cryptographic indication on the interior of the message about what was done to tweak the outside of the message. So that we don't leave recipient values or agents struggling to infer the properties of header fields that had been obscured or removed based on the confidentiality policy. We don't need them dealing with the external data, which isn't actually cryptographically protected. The question that came up was, given that these 2 header fields are going to contain header names we need to say anything different about them? Because the header names are case insensitive but header field values can be case sensitive. And I think the answer is we don't really need to say that much. But we may do one more rev of this draft with just a little additional note that says when the header confidentiality policy itself is comparing header names, It does so case insensitively. But I think all we're gonna need to do. If anybody has any thoughts about The case in sensitivity of header name, header field names, and wants to recommend more text now is the time to do it. I suspect this last little revision is not gonna be a big deal."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "But that's where we're we're looking at for that can move on to the and I'll grab a strap unless anybody wants to pop up and end, question about head of protection? So, this is Russ. Alexei has a whole lot of big experience with this, I think And he's a coauthor. So I hope that's Yes. He is. Ah, he's walking to the mic. Hi. Yeah, I did reply. I think it's fine to actually Other than the clarification that they are compiled cases sensitively, There is no need for them to be in any particular case in the, HP, obscure the HP removed itself. There are no specific cryptographic properties we need or anything like that. So It just needs to be included, and whenever you search for it, you'll need to communicate what you are looking up and what you're, you know, comparing with. So that's just normal usual stuff for email, basically. Does that make sense to everyone? Okay. So the Antennale guidance draft has also gotten quite a bit of really I thoughtful and, interesting feedback during IESG you in last call. I'll I'll hit tackle the right hand side of the slide first. We have added 3 more sections to future work that came up in the discussions we are not trying to answer these questions in this draft, but we are pointing out that webmail needs to considered, as a special case that mailing lists may present additional challenges and that the human readable names in email headers, in particular, are really not tackled by any of the current proposals. About how to do end to end mail cryptographic protections,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "safely. So those are highlighted. Again, this draft has a big appendix. This the future work appendix, and we're just trying to make it a little catalog here of things that nobody's bothered to write down how to do properly. And we've added to that. I see Roman in the queue. Do you wanna wait till I finish the slide, Roman, or you wanna jump in? Okay. Please finish. Yep. I heard it. Thanks. So the changes to the non appendix part of the draft We clarify that there are different kinds of mail user agents that we might be thinking about the conformant mail user agents the legacy conforming the legacy values written in which are 1 that don't know about header protection, but can handle encryption and decryption. Uh-uh. Encrypted value for agents that are kind of be, pretty difficult to work with, but we wanna just comply are are useful for those as well. Been kind of the Sorry. Not just for header connection, but for all of us in general. So clarifying those categories. Again, we've tightened up the musts for user agents similar to what we did for header protection. And then, we are the the other substantive changes are that we have explicitly recommended you encrypt your drafts, because if you don't encrypted drafts, you're leaking the content of the message to The mail server where your drafts are stored. We've added a section about how to deal with weak encryption. So we had a section for how to deal with signatures that don't validate including signatures that are too weak. We've added a section about how to deal with messages that are encrypted with algorithms that we currently know to be weak or suspect which basically divides that process into, whether you think you're looking at an archival message or a new message coming in, a little bit of guidance there. And we've clarified that really we expect there to be 3 set states for sending mail. You can send it normal, send it signed, or send it signs it encrypted, but we acknowledge that when you're, receiving messages"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "There might be a 4th state which is an encrypted message with an invalid signature. I'm just trying to clarify that's a little bit weird, but that's sort of a property of how The Email Ecosystem is working right now. And we just have to sort of deal with it. Next slide. So one question. The the ISG review has now been cleared for the draft. Believe it's ready for the RFC editor. One question that did come up during the review was whether this document should be considered for best current practice status instead of just informational, And at the moment, I believe we are leaning towards just going ahead with informational. Try to move it to the best current practice would probably require another round of ISG review. And we would prefer to just, like, get this document out. There's enough you know, future future work section that, if people are interested in be engaged. We could probably do a biz on this at some point. And maybe that's the point when we consider, DCP approach. So yeah. Next slide I think is the last slide. Yeah. And so just wanna highlight for folks in the room here the probably big questions for you. If No. Is what we just talked about for the head of protection about the question about case sensitivity on the header names. Didn't sound like anybody had any any questions. And then, if you really think that the e to email guidance draft should be PCP instead of informational is a good time to speak up because otherwise, we're gonna go ahead and do it informational. And I hope folks will start thinking about trying to address some of the future work section because we've outlined quite a number of challenges that exist. So I think that's it. Roman. Hi, Roman, Roman generated responsible. Adi, it's I came up to Mike to ask"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "that exact question about informational and BCP. If I don't hear otherwise, we want BCP. When the when we move on to the next slide, I'm gonna just send it to the RFC editor. So now is really the time to mention it. And then lastly, I wanna say there's been a tremendous amount of back in forth on this document. Thank you to the editor team. For may for incorporating all those comments and we're explaining to the all the other reviewers why why this is some of the, some of the discussion points that they brought up have already been indicated in Yes. Indeed. Thank you for being so responsive. Ron, Ron Gondwana. I I wanted to comment on the BCP versus informational. BCP is best common practice. I don't think this is in common us yet. Hopefully, one day it will be. But you can't really publish that before it's been tested as a common practice. So I think information is the right thing at this stage and then come back with a common practice later. Does anyone have a different view If not if so, come to the thing now. Okay, Ryan. I thought BCP was was, best current practice, not best common practice, but I'm not actually arguing with, in about the outbound show. Okay. Okay. So, The next two to went forward in a surprising order, RC, 8399 BIS is now an RFC. It's 9540 9 And the other one, the with a slightly smaller number, before, 8398bis is still waiting in the ARC editor's queue. So That's where we stand on those. So the next one is the pea kicks the next category are the PKIX related documents? And we had, cert binding for multi auth in working group last call,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "and that past working group last call, and has now been submitted to the, ISG. They haven't done anything with it. As yet as far as I can tell. So I'd be surprised if there's an date, but if there is, Please come to the Microphone? Okay, Mike. Mike Jenkins, NSA. Yeah, we're, we have, comments On it, and we're addressing them. Okay. So the AD review happened? Yes. I'll go ahead and give it I missed that. We're actually in last call. Okay. Thank you. RFC 5019bis That's the update to the OCSP for high volume environments. Go ahead, Sean. It's in working group last call. Right? Alright. I think that, just The other day, I said the draft was updated. Is there anybody thinks they're they have an issue that was not resolved. We're just waiting a few days to see if anyone says there is one. Okay. The next one is, the no revocation available. And Tim put that in last call, Maybe 3 weeks ago or something. We're waiting for a consensus call. I I believe that a update was posted to resolve the last issues. Waiting to hear whether everyone agrees with that. Okay. 4210 biz, Hendrick. I think you said it slides."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Hello. Good evening to Australia. Can you please. So next slide, Yeah. Can you back your volume off a smidge? You are booming in here. Who? I don't see a place for us to do It's just too loud. The remote people are really loud. And I don't see a place for us to turn it now. Okay. I will I will try to week. Not that loud. I don't know how to Tweak my my mic. Okay. 6712bis is like it was the last, month or changes are incorporated and we are waiting for 40 10 best to catch up. Next slide, please. So there were quite a lot of changes to 40 10 biz. So, mainly, we did incorporate now all the changes from CMP updates RFC 9480. We did update, the pop mechanisms to support cam keys. We did, prepare a section on cam based message protection. Which is in line, and using the approach from CMS Camera. We did also add some clarifying text on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "how to use, password based Mac with non H Mac. In case, key expansion is needed And yeah. So the authors feel like we thing. Did now follow-up on all the actions we had from the ADs and from the working group, there are some, Feedbacks, on the issue tracker, in GitHub And we got from from Thomas Gustafsson on other parts of the document, which I will briefly introduce on the next slides and ask working group for guidance how to to proceed here. We would Still like to get feedback on, the CAM section. As it is now, completed in CMS Kammarajas kind of our role model is, approved So I think this is a good good chance, good point in time to to look at the CAM based message protection sections. Good. As Hannah's already mentioned, there is this, draft on, providing a freshness nonsense for, attestation in case this, would be, adopted by the working group, we could, of course, also incorporate the syntax for the CMP messages. In 40 to 10 k. Next slide, please. Yeah. So this is, the slide I also presented the last, meetings on the cam based message protection. I just wanted to briefly highlight, where we did changes, here in bold. We added a cam context, octet string as an optional field,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "to kind of have offers the same flexibility as in CMS MRI with a UKM with the UKM field. So more details on how how to use it. Is in the, document but maybe this, can other info already, incorporate some mandatory or 2 mandatory fields. So a base, a static string as well as the transaction ID And using these 2, we have a com we have a contact separation but we learned that there are some or there may be some, chem algorithms that need further. Context, and therefore, we also added this field as part of the camp PB parameters. So the algorithm identifier as well as the other info which is then, part of the KDF. Good. Next slide, please. So now coming to the open issues on GitHub, the first, feedback from, tomas was on a section of 422, the section 422, describes a a mandatory shame for CMP. A certificate management and, in the meantime, We have indexes, CND in this doc We have RFC 9483, but we also have the L and the UNIZIC, profiles. So therefore, Thomas felt like it is not current anymore to to specify a a mandatory to implement a shame in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "in this place, and, therefore, he's yeah, asking for removing normative language here. We did talk a bit about this topic and felt like we could either do the minimum change here and just rename the section and And or remove the normative text, But when looking more into the document, we figure out that section 3, 4, and 6 all contain a lot of normative language at various places which are not not really needed if you see that there are profiles that do specify these things in much more detail. So this is the option 3, which could, also mean changing these and, removing at least lots of the normative text there. The question is now, as this was not yet part of the The tasks, the authors or the editors got from the working group, how to proceed here. Are the editors recommending option 3? Pardon? I Are you are you the group of editors recommending option 3? I'll take that as a no. It it is it is a matter of, how how far we wanna go. So I I could do this change. I could provider, pull request on GitHub, doing these changes, The the the point is, Yeah. Is this,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "gap. It it it would mean to modernize that the document, quite a bit. And this may be meaningful as it is kind of in some options outdated. Mike, are you in queue to address this? Okay. Does anyone want to offer, Hendrick any, choice among these advice regarding the these 3 choices. Alright. Sure, Russ. Mike Ellsworth. So Hendrick, the slide doesn't really clearly state what the problem, is the problem has to do with whether entities can communicate directly with the CA And it for the way the wording if I understand correctly from issue 43, the The issue is that The current wording sort of implies direct connections and not RA brokered connections, which, of course, people do RA brokered connections all the time. So the common practice is not compatible with the current wording. Right. That's the core. That is a point, but it also kind of overruled, the stipulations in the different profiles as this is at a central, part of the document giving some requirements like to use this implicit, non implicit confirm so to use a second round trip and in some of the profiles the 2nd round trip is omitted. And, therefore, how to say it As we do have profiles, it feels like it is not, good to have such a a meta profile in in this part of the the basic document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:10",
    "text": "So the the proposal is more to to leave the mandatory to implement messages, to the profiles and not stated at at this point of the The way I read 4210, it's saying you can support any profile you want, but you must support the second one. Mhmm. I think it be would a significant change to not have to support the second one. We'd have to get working group consensus to make that kind of change. Is anyone advocating that kind of a change? Not hearing anyone. I think they wanna leave it alone. I I know that Thomas was advocating this change. He's not, able to joined the meeting. So Yeah. Okay. Then he needs to bring it to the list not to get home. He he actually brought the issue to to the list, in early February. But, we further discuss it in the GitHub issue and, also personally in a call So but I can also bring this issue back to the list and, see what feedback comes. Yeah. I think that, I think that's the right path forward. K. Thanks. By the way, I'm still I'm sorry. Go ahead. I'm still in queue for my original appointment. I'll hold till the very end. Just don't kick me. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Okay. So next issue also by by Thomas on section 4.4. So fact section 4dot 4, provide some text on root key update. And, it it kind of, Focuses quite a lot on using, or implementing key update delivery via LDAP directories. And, he says, so this is not how how things are handled these days. Necessarily anymore. So there are other ways. So there is a to do it via general messages. And, the newly offered, see a key update content message, but you could also do it via, URIs in the AIA, extension of the certificate. So therefore, he advocated for updating this section. So He already did a first go on on this And after a discussion, I did also provide a a full request on this. The question to the working group is do we wanna go into this topic? Do we wanna update the section or Should we leave it as is? So it makes sense to me to, remove the dependencies on LDAP. But it's important that you preserve the old with new, new with old because that's Yeah. Right. I believe 4210 is the only place that's documented. I also checked the, the references, and, and there are why the number of RFCs referring to this description, Yeah. But but also this quite, quite big, picture this tablet picture also focuses quite a lot on,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "doing it via LDAP, and maybe this is not how most of the people do it these days. Okay. Alright. John, are you in queue about this topic? Yeah. Yes. I was just going or just you can't see me. I was just going to agree. Yeah. We definitely need to keep the link certificates language in there. We definitely use it. And, yeah, it's very useful. So I don't think we're going to, like, yeah, has to be backward compatible. it Like you said, I guess that this is the only place exists anywhere. We need to keep it. So K. Thank you. Good. So, as we have a a pull request available, should I merge it and submit the version or Just Yep. Yeah. That's fine. Wanna look at the pull request first. Only way you're gonna get consensus is to post a draft. Okay. Good. Thanks. So this is, the point on, this Yeah. Not incompatibility issue, but the issue on potential incompatibilities between using password based Mac for pop and for message protection in 42104211. If not, Mac is used, if a Mac Hmac is used, but a Mac algorithm that requires a key of a specific length a key expansion mechanism may be needed, which specified in a 4210 and not in 4211. Probably because, 4211 says H. Mack is a mandatory to implement, MAC algorithm."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "But still, people could use a different one. So we did some clarify or added some clarifying text, to 42 Canvas. The question discussed among the authors. Was where there is some at least iratum needed for 4211 or not. So it is just if no one request this aratum, it's fine with us. But we wanted to bring this to the attention of of the the group. Anyone, worried about the size of the key for CRMF Not hearing anyone care. Right? Okay. I will close that issue. Thanks. Okay. So One change. John John's jump in the queue. Sorry. Sorry. I just had a when you say close the issue, you mean you're not wanting to put the text in because, I mean, we did run into this issue. No. We we did put but it the as you have it in 4210, gonna do anything about Okay. Yeah. As Okay. long as it's clear, it's clarified in 42. Or the update we're doing. Okay. That's fine me. with Wanted to make sure I understood. Thanks. The clarifying text is in version 8, the current version of, 4210 biz, but there is no hint or clarifying iratum 40 to 11. And and finally, that was a question to the group. Whether that is is needed or requested. K. Thank you. So a final issue So as we introduced, root CA key update content"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "which, made the old with new and new with old link certificates optional in this struck Sure. It is different to the previous CA key update content structure where all three certificates are new with new new with old, old with new are all mandatory to provide. We see quite some use cases where we do not need all the link certificates. Therefore, we provided this new structure where we have some optionality and Thomas requested to also offer this optionality to the, The CA key update announcement message And, therefore, we proposed to add this new, definition, to come with version 3. So it should be backward compatible, but it should offer the option to also use, root see a key update content with a op link certificates. There is also poor request. If Yeah. If this change is, additional change is fine with the group, I would merge a pull request. And when you have concerns with this approach, I see no one getting in the line, so go ahead. Okay. Thanks. I think this is it. Okay. Don't know what that is. It's Back up slide, if someone wants more details on the can based message protection. Okay, Mike. Okay. Mike Elsworth. Also, sort of speaking on behalf of Sean Turner. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:05",
    "text": "That's unfortunate. Yeah. So we've been since asking 116, maybe even since 115 for review of the chemical miner stuff. I wanna ask again. And, like, at some point, this draft is gonna get to the state where it's all done and we're blocked waiting for review. Right. The And maybe I'll give a bit of an overview to help spur some people to go look at it that we're doing two things Kim's. One is the straightforward thing if we want to encrypt a cert for itself. As the sort of indirect pop thing. That's relatively straightforward use of chem. The other thing which is, like, weird is where CMP needs to establish a max key. To to integrity, protect messages, Bob has to do a chem for Alice, so that Alice can get a MAC key to integrity protect her message to Bob. And, like, that's a weird use of chem that doesn't follow any other patterns and other other uses of chem that's coming through. It's like that's gonna need review because it's weird. Know how we do that. Like, do we just, like, point to people? Like, David in the back, who I know has the expertise to do this review, and because we how do we how do we get review? You you you do what you just said. In addition, in addition to calling for that specific, hey. I need review of this idea. Please look at this section. Right. As opposed to Look at all the dips in the stock. So you could hit the the arrow key on your keyboard on the next backup slide and that you know, Where do you wanna go? Forward. Forwards. That one, Yeah. Like, yeah, Hedrick has had the slides in the slide deck for, like, for our ETFs now. Like, these are the mechanisms we need to review on. Okay, Point to the slide in your call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "Sorry. Yeah. And I I I've was remiss and didn't say why I was here on behalf of Sean Turner. Know Sean Turner's gonna say that. Yeah. Okay. I saw him. Hey. I'm Sean Turner, and I am in the room. I'm gonna have exactly the same problem for the CMC documents that we're starting to work on. So It's not just a one off. It's gonna get used in multiple places. Okay. so we're seeing a new design structure So here. And, I mean, we wanna good. It's like, remember, we had, like, the make sure it's diffy hellman pop mechanism, right, Right. Basically need that for these if if that these certificates are ever gonna be used where you trying to get a certificate that is purely you know, on KybroSure, then you don't have a signature, a way to sign it. Now some people would argue that one ever's gonna do that because most people that use these things get them from enterprises and they make them essentially and then give them out to you. But I think that, fill out the matrix of things you can possibly do we do need any way to do this. Thanks. And anybody who's got the expertise, please speak in little words so I can understand. Thanks. I'm probably wrong, and feel free to tell me why because I'd like to understand. But if this is really an important thing that's going to be used in multiple drafts, and it needs its own sort of review and things like that. Is it sort of asking to be a draft on its own, explaining this new idea? So hey. Sean Turner again. I was kind of just gonna basically point it with the CMP stuff does. So there's not, like, an argument, right? Like, at the end of the day, they specify it, and then I'm gonna be like, for this other certificate management protocol, we do exactly the same thing. It's called different fields. So I guess you could pull it out if you really wanted to, but I'm definitely not trying to slow them down in any way. Just because it's 2 separate protocols, don't know. Maybe you could put it in one draft and then point to wherever, but I don't know if that's better? We tried that with CRMF and the 2 continue to evolve in their own ways. So, It doesn't always work. Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "Okay. So, please, Everyone reviewed the stuff on the slide. And send concerns to the, the mail list. Any there's still two people in the queue. I think they're old. Is that correct? Okay. The next document is Rfc, 7030 CSR attributes. I don't recall slides from Michael. No. I didn't say that you Okay. We think we're done. Anyone Think they're not. Okay. Yeah. I've read it. A bunch of read it. Alright. So, Michael, you I don't recall where we were. Did we do working group last call yet, No. Okay. So that's where we are. So would the minute taker please televa chairs to make a working group last call. Because that's how our memory will make a difference. And to see off if we forget the authors can focus please Yep. Yep. Okay. Next up is, the lithium certs. Sean to take myself up. Hi. I'm Sean Turner again. I think I can do the lithium certs and Kyra shirts in 1 fell swoop. The only updates that were done, their new versions were pumped out, We changed the names from the lithium to MLDSA, and from Kiverr to MLchem to match the nest stuff, and we're still waiting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "I think I put some warnings in the Kyra draft if we put any examples in there that these are like, pre finalized diversions in case anybody did anything with them that they would know that whatever they implemented was probably gonna be wrong. So, that's it. So, basically, we're still in the process of waiting and no matter how hard you ask me or how many times I'm not gonna put annoyed in this doc You're not gonna put A testoid. We're gonna wait for the nistoise. This action produce lights, Yes. Yes. They will. Hi, Rowan May. So There's this document for on mldsa, in X509. And then there's a document for SLH DSA in in, CMS. But but but there isn't one for SLH DSA in Yes. There are. Oh, they're just not all adopted yet. Okay. Okay. In We'll be getting moment. Yep. Further down the What is missing is foul? Right. Right. Okay. So, Sean, that covered both. And so now we're up to, CSR at the station. Mike. Did you sometimes He did. I sure also. There it is attestation evidence. Oh, yeah. Hello."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "Alright. Is there actually a camera Yeah? Yep. Is it No. looking good? It's looking at me. Yeah. Cool. This is what? No. I don't think so. No. Okay. Alright. So the, yeah, this is the IETF lab CSR attestation. So it's the draft Yeah. Next slide, please. This is the whatever kind of attestation evidence you have, here's how you put it in a CSR Internet draft. It is this is just the sort of refresher of what we're doing. We're This draft is not specifying any new attestation formats. This group is, this office group is doing that. We're doing that in rats. This document here is just whatever bucket of bits you have. Here's how you CSRA. So we're defining a new CSR extension attribute evidence or extension evidence if you're CRMF. We carry evidence bundles, which key which carries evidence statements and also a bag of certificates. So this, this is just refresher from last time. We have this sort of tiered architecture thing because, you may have a a dev a device may have more than one signed statement. It wants to convey to CA, you may have 3rd party endorsements from the manufacturer or nest or somebody, he may wanna bundle multiple things. There may or may not be certificate chain overlap. You may or may not grew things. So we end up with this sort of tiered structure. At the bottom of the whole thing, an evidence statement is an void. It's a it's a type I call it tape Yeah. It's an OIDOID and a and a generic value slot. So you can assign yourself an OID and then stick whatever data you have in there. I wanna point out this internet draft is not. Is it explicitly not telling you how to put evidence into a into an issued certificate. This is merely for a device to provide evidence to the certificate authority"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "the certificate authority can decide whether or not to issue that cert. There are totally valid use cases where people might want tested evidence type stuff in a certificate, We're not touching it, and we're not touching it because there's privacy implications to that. It might be okay for you to tell your CA, what tax level your HSM is or the unique serial lumps, unique unique ID of your whatever super cookie, whatever. Tell your CA, but you might not want that published in the CT log. And there's a whole rats nest pun intended of this implication is better that I think need to be addressed We're not addressing them here. Next. Okay. So the only really substantial substantive change. You can see there's a lot of version revs. In Prague, we were at 2. We're now at 08 We did a lot of version revs. The only there's only one normative change since then. And that's that the evidence statement has added a hint And so in in discussions, we've been having regular design team meetings every every other Monday. Regularly for almost a year now. And it came up that the person who is parsing this evidence, who is deconstructing the CSR, and then has this signed object. It needs to you know, rummage around and find a library to parse. May need a hint about which library it's supposed to call. We imagine that each vendor might provide their own parsing library And so you need a hint on the outside of the envelope to to hint about Yeah. Which which library you're supposed to call that will know how to parse this thing. And so we've defined it Sort of as a general name, but with the weird legacy stuff ripped out. We expect the most common here is gonna be a URI or a domain name or something that uniquely identifies a few code. Rich looks skeptical. Too many goats. Kate?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "If that's the way people identify their software, I don't know if the URI is uniquely identified as software library in all cases. Maybe? You go to the mic. That's that's ritzoles, Akamai, Mike, non aficionado enthusiast I think there's too many choices and having a nested structure in there. I mean, make it either text, which would be a library name in a version string or just a URI the points to something that's presumably readable or release notes or something like that. Just pick 1 of them. Okay. simplify this further. So Basically Yeah. enough There's complexity elsewhere. Okay. Thank shine. you for the These. Okay. Next next slide, please. This gotta be a tagline. Put your complexity elsewhere. So we have a bunch of non normative changes. We've added we've greatly expanded the explanation and context text. We've added a bunch of samples and appendices show you how to use this. Within the design team, we've had long discussions on freshness, how do you how does the CA know that this evidence was generated you know, somewhat recently or was generated in lockstep with the key that it's it's a testing or whatever. And that's all good. You're like, yes. Consensus is that basically, yes, freshness is good. Knocks are good. But not always possible in a CSR context, we know people like to reuse CSRs. We know that CSRs are sometimes generated in the air gap network and then carried out. So the you don't get to assume a full round trip from the CA to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "device, the whole, like, the TPI or whatever doing the attestation and then back to the CIA. So it's good where you can do it. You can't always do it. And, regardless, that sort of implies a carrier protocol. There's some communication within the CA and the the device. And that's, like, that's all well outside the scope. The CSR object itself. So harness and Hendrick have a have a draft. Doing exactly this in CMP. And that's the place where it belongs. It belongs in the protocol and you say here's how you put an attestation notes down so that it can be embedded in the in the CSR. So that's this is all good, but doesn't belong in this draft. Yeah. We've now added a bunch of appendices. So we've got 2 concrete worked examples. At the Hackathon this weekend, we did a super good job of coming up with a TPM too, example. So we have, hackathon code that will actually, query your TPM on your operating system and then generate a CSR with it inside. So that's awesome. And Haunas provided a complete PSA token example. The next sort of weird thing that we're doing and this is this is new is we're creating 2 2 new IANA registries in this document. One is the first one actually, let's go to the next slide. Expand on this. So the first one is the obvious and straightforward one. IETF will undoubtedly need to register Oids for a bunch of different evidence. Formats, our rats document is going to be the first one we want to do this. So we need a a registry where we can assign a wigs for evidence formats. I think that's pretty straightforward. This draft is calling for it for that registry to be created. The next registry is less straightforward. And this basically is trying to answer the question if I'm an implementer, I'm trying to implement this draft. I'm trying to implement a parser for this thing. I'm I never gonna ask the question. What is the set of oids that I'm expecting come across when parsing these things in the wild. And has anyone written in a summary table of all the oids that I can expect to see. And so the second registry is This"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "And we're curious on community feedback here, but this is whether this is a thing I am he wants to do Can we ask IANA to to have a public registry tracking OID's registered in other SDOs. That you can expect to be used here. So the structure that we proposed is is this. OID description reference document, which in the example that we're doing here is a TCG document. The change controller for that OID is TCG. I expect there'll be discussion on this one. Next. I'd like to push back on that idea. Understand why it's helpful. To the people here But how do the other s know they want to tell I am. They don't. So the way the way we wrote the text is that Anyone can submit. A way to be added to this. You just need to reference a document So that when anyone comes across it, they can help help others discover the OID to spec linkage. Okay? That works for Commercially or or publicly available. I can put the OID, and here's a URL for a document that will let me learn how to do it. But not an oil It's private. Right? Just just just Okay. So it'll just be a first come, first serve registry. Yeah. And please look at the wording. We did define the IANA considerations where we ask this registry, we did do outline a a process for ask asking on a mailing list for these for a new entry, and then, designated expert review. So it's really I, it's really expert review."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "It's really, So I got please please take a look at the text that we proposed and see if that makes actually, what we do. sense as a workflow for this sort of weird type of registry. Yeah, this is the thing we definitely Michael Richard and then Mike. I think what's weird is we normally ask Iyanna to give us numbers. It was the next number 4 345678. This case, entities, entities probably already have their they're Oi because they already have arcs. If they don't they're probably not tall enough to play here anyway. Indeed. And, and, anyway, get to ask for a pen if they they can go want. Good enough. The the the thing is that normally we do this was So obliquatory, that you add something here, But what what Mike is trying to do is make it clear to to Implementers, Here's a bunch of things that you might get. And when your customer calls you, and says, I've got this thing. That showed up. You're like, oh, we didn't implement that one. Oh, look, it's this new thing. We can actually figure out What does that even mean? Right, from there. And I think that's a u as you said, it's a useful service that didn't happen. The the the the the protocol, wouldn't be broken. It just would be harder to implement Right. Okay. So it's not the normal thing that we're ask that we normally ask Diana to do. But I don't think it's that weird. I think one of you should swing by the table this week. And that's. Sure. That's a good idea. this. If they would push back if we asked for Fill? Thing to Yeah. And any chocolate too. Yeah. And take some chocolate. Oh, you're there. Yeah. Rich. The TLS ALPN and now I just lost the other one. There are registries where people come with predefined names, and we just say, oh, is there a documentation for it and put it in? So it's not that unusual. Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "That was Rich Sals. How come I is that the queue? Yep. Okay. Do I do I have more slides? Yeah. Cool. So next steps, I mean, this document is getting really quite mature. We have reminder, we have quite some time pressure. This is all work to try and satisfy a cab formal garment that went into force last summer and is really horribly, hideously manual right now, and we need some automation for it. So I think pending the hackathon, which went quite well and generating this, the sample that's currently missing. I think this document is really, really close to working group last call. How really, really? Is or it is almost? Once that sample is in, I believe it is. So that's gonna be put in Once I can finish writing those Python scripts. So Next, drove. Yes. Okay. Alright. Any any further questions for Mike? Last Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So that was the last of documents, removing to the the smIME Related Doctor. So the first one is 5990bis. That document's already been through Last call. There's at this point, the last rev, I think, resolved the issues. Anybody has any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "that they feel are unresolved Please scream on the list now. The next one, is, lamps, CMS, Shaw 3 hash. The working group last call asked that we have, support for K Mack as a KDF, NIST assigned 2 OIDs. So for that, And they're in the document now. It was posted right before the cutoff. Literally right before they cut off. And I, posted that that was the only open issue And once this had the oides that are posted, So I believe this one is Ready for the ISG. If anybody thinks otherwise, please Scream on the list. Okay. Who's gonna talk to CMS Kyber? That's me. Okay. Alright. Good. Did you send slides? Yes. I did. There we go. You can go to the next slide. So, I did a fairly, big rerate of the draft. Restructured it based on RFC 5990 Biz. And also aligned it with the CMS, Camry, updated Kyra to MLKM instead, took the Kmart that Russ just mentioned from the other draft. Reason being because mlcam uses Shaw 3 and shake under the covers. Updated security considerations, and we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "2 implementations with hackathon artifacts. So So if anyone has any more, Please let us know that hackathon, or the hackathon email addresses or the or the GitHub next page, please. So, yeah, for the changes for the mandatory to end implement components. We put in K MAC. Based on comments last last time in Prague, we put a S 256 as m 2i for the 192 bit security level. Because AS 192 is not widely as widely deployed. We put in the must support for KMAC without customization label because the shared secret is not be used in this context. There was a question, and I think this is gonna come up in Mike's presentation later as well. What about implementations that don't support Kachek the CMS level. And then the alternate question is what about implementations that only want to support kachek, at all. Is there a concern there that we're we're requiring the use of K MAC? Where catch up is not available at the at a hotter local. So we'd like feedback on that. Next page. Does anyone in the room want to address that point? That, should they be supporting as approach that allows Shaw 2. Esticate, yeah, Please, Please explain why if you have that before. Hey, Daryl Piper. Because Deb said so last time that's all. in Iraq, that Okay? And then I guess the question is if we want is how how does this get in there? Like, if you put 2 mandatory implement, to implement algorithms there. That doesn't really help"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "Debt's question because it's still mandatory to implement a shot 3 days. 1. Do we put no one mandatory to implement ones and just say do whatever you want. Yeah, like, more information on how to proceed with that, if that's how we want to go Next page. Yeah. So the the In one case, many years ago, we did one where you must support this for that. Okay. But, that doesn't that doesn't When it gets to the ISD, you better report to explain why are you doing this because at least in in that case, it happened. You're you're creating non interoperability situations with 2 classes. Right? You're either gonna be able to communicate to one of them and not the Okay. John might have a comment. John, I a think this is qualify, know, Deb's you point is 1 has fielded experience and one is theoretically better. Point. And I I have a fulfilled experience myself. Holding It Yeah. So my comments, John Gray from Entrust think it's somewhere, the person that was just there, so it's shot 2 is more widely employed. Obviously, it's been around. Much longer people have that implementation stop 3 isn't as much deployed. So I think it should be there whether it's or or something I guess that's up for a debate, but I think it should be if if he had a choice between 2, shot 2, and shot 3. I think mean, we had actually was it in this group? We discussed, I don't know, one of the groups anyway. Crypto that's, you know, widely deployed well used Let's make use of that. The reason not to use file to. I don't think so. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "guess that goes back to Deb's comment from the last IITF as well. Yeah. And I'm not them so I can't speak for her, but I'm not I'm not opposed to an or myself. In this particular case, Again, you're gonna have to justify it Scott passed. Yeah. I'd like to point out that if you don't trust Scott Fluor Sysco Systems. I'd like to point out if you don't trust Shaw 3, I believe NL the security of MLKIBER, MLKEM book goes away. So if you if you do trust it, you and as long as you don't think there's good, which should be easy to check back. Shaw should be 3 safe. Yeah. So I thought that I thought that Deb's point last time was more that shot 3 or shake might not actually be available at the level that CMS processing is happening. And not that it's not trusted. Yeah. So anyways, Go ahead, John. Yeah, I was just gonna say, the crypto layer level. Right? Like, you might have access to, you know, your algorithm that contains Shaw 3 internally, but maybe you don't have access to the algorithm by itself. You have access to shop too. So I guess that's that's the issue you're talking about. Right? So Yeah. That's, I think, having the choice is good. Okay. I can add an over with justification and then let people fight about it if they want. Okay. Continuing on. There was and and And does Mike have a question? Yeah. Mike Alsworth. Pause you for a second. Just to highlight the you also we also changed, yeah, change to to K Mac, right? Is there Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "Ask for review on that, whether there's substantial differences between, like, H Machhaw 3 or just bear ask for your TMAC whether those are relevant here. Or relevant security reasons. Yeah. That's a good question. If if anyone has any opinions on whether the difference relevant then. Sayschool. Right. So, the section here, basically, this draft is very heavily based on, RC 59 90 biz. Thank you. Very much for us. It made my job easier. During the review, it was pointed out twice independently. That section 1.4 of this draft, and by extension section 1.3 of 5990 is. Which is the, what's the title? The the processing summary. Was possibly a little confusing because it basically restates what's happening in the CMS can redraft except with less detail. And so I guess I'd question rest of the group is, is this confusion confusing should it be removed? If it should be removed, should it also be removed in 5990? Is next question. Come. Come. Come. But that's a good question to the whole group. But have if RC 5990bis having just completed working group and group mask call. If if if if if if if if if if Yep. Yeah. If this should be removed, someone should have screened before but Yeah. He's parallel. Look at this. And and make sure that we're doing the right thing. Okay. And next, I think there's one more slide. Maybe 2. Yeah. So what's what we're waiting on is obviously the NLchem Boyd's for NIST, we're gonna some encoding examples once we have the final draft as well. But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "as mentioned, may or may not remove 1.4, but if nobody screamed about for 59.90 biz, and maybe not. Harmonized security considerations with Kyber certificates. I don't think that draft has any security considerations. So feel free to steal ours and we'll reference yours. I think yours should be a higher level than ours. So we'll reference yours. Have to add an ASN 1 module with s 9 caps and chem algorithm definition, although I think that one also should be defined in cyber certificates. If you guys wouldn't mind, if you do mind, then I'll do it. I think next page is just a thing. It's Hi. This is Sean Turner, author of the other draft. Let's coordinate so that we can do this smart week so that we don't step on each other. yeah, that you're right. The And, security considerations. I think we're like say something about side channel attacks, which we threw him, like, a year and a half ago, yeah, we need to put a little more thought and, what actually needs to go Okay. I believe that's it. One more slide. It says thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Daniel. Thanks for your comments on the other documents during their last No problem. Okay. The, Next one is CMS using SphX Plus. There's been no changes since the last time when we just went through and changed things plus to, the dash DSA. Name. Next is composite cams."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "Mike? Good. Fun one. Alright. Next, please. Yes. Okay. Let's start with the elephant in the room, which is a carryover from CFRG, from for you. You know, elephants in the other room. So I obviously wrote these slides more than an hour ago before the the CFRG session. But, so just I figured I'd give a quick summary. For those who have not been following the CFRG action here. On January 31st, the CFRG chair started a call for adoption for the higher research area of hybrid camera combiners. The call for adoption was left open for 5 weeks. It's the thread received a whopping 150 responses many of which were themselves not short. If anyone write every word, you're a hero, so the consensus here was yes. The topic is adopted and CFRG just an hour ago announced, yeah, the topic The whole research area will be adopted. Of the CFG charitable form and design team. The exact goals of this effort are still very nebulous. How many chems are we defying name what combinations are needed. It's a lot of clarity still up in the air. But what is clear that this document here at lapse is a subset of that work. So Yeah. In true idea of fashion, we don't know what we're building, but we're definitely building Okay. Next. I clicked it, Yeah. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:06",
    "text": "I clicked and it says reestablishing connection That is why. Welcome to hear. No. We cannot cables, right? Okay. So with the elephant in the room addressed, let's we'll talk about the editorial changes we've made recently. So changes in version 3. We have removed everything that's not mlchem. Based. So now since all the combinations doing here at mlcambase. We've changed the title of the document to be composite ml chem for Houston. Internet PKI. And CMS. So we'll get to the end CMS. That's also new. We've added a few more co authors who are have been actively participating in this work years makes sense to list them. We have added text to the introduction to justify where and why this mechanism would useful. Sort of citing regulatory regulatory encouragement we've added a section use in CMS. So we know that it's convention in lab to define the algorithms in one document and then define the use CMS in a separate document. So this text was written so that it could be standalone and moved out to a separate document if we want to. But for now, we tucked it inside here. So this is defining how to use it. With us, MRI to do CMS encryption. And then similarly to Daniel's talk for a minute ago, Dan. We switched to all the KDFs for both for both the chem combiner itself and for the use with with MRI, to use either Kmac 128 or Kmac 256. Yep. Why is it dance stock, Texas, Still to do, we need samples. The hackathon is actually coming along quite nicely at producing samples. So at some point, I might just slipe slide some certs out of the hackathon repo and stick them in here. Of course, we're waiting for the outcome. So this document is we're gonna get blocked waiting for the outcome of the CFRG effort. And we also, of course, need to synchronize with other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "working groups that are doing identical things. Kem's in HBKE, Jose, Jose, open PGP, And these are a little bit different then hybrid chems for example, in TLS because The protocols I've highlighted here expect long lived non ephemeral chem keys, which maybe have some implications on how they're used in the protocols. And then I have some open discussion points. So, yeah, this is the elephant in the room is how do we align this draft do we wait? Do we go forward? Do we Yeah. Do we, expect that this draft to sort of hurry up hurries up in weights. To for CFRG to finish their effort, and then we take recommendations and adjust this draft to align. Or do we So is this sort of a get it ready in park it, or Do we wanna do we wanna be doing active cryptographic work here is sort of point number 1. Do you wanna wait till the end, or do you wanna discuss each of the move as we get to However, Okay. Discussion Point 1. Anyone want to respond to that. I'm currently waiting for I think we're written. So Okay. So I in regards to your, you know, hurry up row home. Sorry. Rowan may in regards to your, hurry up and wait question, mean, I think that lighting a little bit of a fire under CFRG isn't necessarily a bad thing. Open questions. The real root sauce is now standing up. Yeah. Don't wait because I think also this might have the I think it's a benefit. Of of having other working groups say, oh, wait a minute. There's one already here from quote, unquote, PKI. Exports."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "So you know, but, Having a specific combiner and showing 2 use cases of it. That might also help people say, oh, well, maybe we should just pick 1 and adapt it for our use case. So, yeah, don't wait. I can say that not being one of the people who's gonna be writing it, but, yeah, Anyone wanna offer the other side of that one. Okay. I'll I'll I'll offer the other side, which is we're seeing active academic work showing that the naive combiners don't have the security properties you want So I don't know that we wanna get ahead of the academic security analysis. Which is not happening here. Well, remember how this worked out in TLS? The they put forward something, and then the academic folks went studied it and told them how to improve it. Mhmm. If you don't put a straw mat, they don't study it. Okay. Next then. Yeah, this this is Daniel raised the same. So everything Dan said plus here we have the extra complication that we are not just taking a shared secret and, and deriving a key from it, we're in fact taking 2 shared secrets and deriving a key from it. That does change the security analysis. So where MRI can sort of free lease swap between K Mack and HKdf shot 2. It's less clear that you can do that safely here because HKDF shot 2 is not known to be a dual ERS, So there's there's a whole additional layer of questions here about whether shots you provide the same security properties as KMAC So this is, like, I recognize the desire to have HVAC to based combinations. But again, security analysis is needed to say whether that is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "an allowed equivalent substitution or not. Go ahead, Glenn. Quindang at Nest I think our group this group here is not tasked with the crypto analysis and, crypto review and So those two issues, we happen right now. They, I, I definitely recommend to be, to be a at the, Because We we're not tasked with the the job to to do crypto analysis here. And those 2 issues need You know, form of verification read through a proof papers and look at all angles to see any flaw in there or or or or we have cover all the angles things like that. So it it takes it takes it takes time and, and, and a lot of expertise And we he had not tasked to do that. So I recommend 22 that their supply chain owes them to to help. K. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. Discussion Point number 3 relate to the, the user key material so that Russell, guess this was on list. Right? Published your comments. So do any of our composite cans require a UKM? You said I can imagine a way to to use DH and ACDH that require a UKM. And I think this discussion is, again, broader than lamps. Is this sort of relates to the discussions of do we need to bind public keys and what context do we need to buy in public keys? Cause that is, I think, the obvious thing that would go into UKM. Right? Is that what you're referring to there?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "So receiver public key. Well, our RRC 20 361 or 2630, one one of those had a way that you had to use the U CAM. Which was the way to use Tiffy Hillman with CMS. Which was a way to use, which specifies the way to use Diffie Hellman with CMS. And, it was based on The X Nine.42 spec. It needed the U CAM. And so if you are doing Ziffy Helm in that way, you need the UK And that's that's distinct from doing that binding at this MRI layer. Correct. No one's running to the mic on this one. Probably because there's three people in the room Alright. Next. So, yeah, the the grand summary here is this document is stable. For, I mean, stable but not finished. We're expecting We're we're, yeah, we're heavily pending the outcome of CFRG, which may you know, trash the entire design here and force us to rewrite it. I don't know. But for now, it's stable. And that we're we're continuing on with hack with a hackathon you know, people are implementing this draft. The open quantum safe is implementing this draft. They've got artifacts up recently that it's gonna be an upcoming version of OQS. So there's implementations growing. I don't know what we do. I mean, this procedurally, this feels like a bit of a hurry up and wait kinda document. So I don't know how we go forward with it, but For now, it's fairly stable. Okay. Any further questions? So we're now down to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "Less than 5 minutes left. Don't think we can get through the next document in that time. So I think that this is a place to to call it and we'll resume this section, of of documents at the next session, which is later in the week. Okay. Go ahead. Can I have the fine work? Because so I may not be at the next kind of lens meeting due to other conflicts. So I am your outgoing kind of sec AD. And the good news is you are gonna be in excellent hands. Deb Cooley is going to be the AD kicking over. She knows a lot more about to me. So, great hands, in in administratively, though, I'm gonna do something that typically doesn't happen because I am not rolling off the ISG. I'm rolling off being kinda sucky the I do still have a number of Lamb's documents kinda with me. I have talked to kind of Deb, and the working plan is everything that I already have that's asked public. It's gonna stay with me. So all of those things That are in IETF last call, I'm still gonna push them through the IETF. To to, sorry, the ISG. Thank you, sir. And so kind of the benefit of that is we're not gonna lose any time in the in the AD kind of transition. So things will kinda continue with their velocity. And congratulations on your selection as IITF chair. Thanks. Alright. Then we're done for today."
  }
]
