[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:55",
    "text": "say appear and Mike and [Music] good morning good morning I don\u0027t know how to say good morning in Czech does anyone know how to say good morning a check can you go to the mic say your name and then good morning check I\u0027m sure there\u0027s somebody you can say it properly unlike me but don\u0027t bleed in John\u0027s gutter so this is the always exciting never though routing area open meeting I\u0027m sure all of you are here for that meeting so I won\u0027t even tell you if you\u0027re not here for that meeting go away I know that probably people are outside in line waiting to come in as well so and I\u0027ll girl this is alia Debora is somewhere you probably want to reveal too many confidential information tell you where she is this is not well hopefully you have all noticed that the note well is slightly different this time and for those of you who are cheers you actually put the new not well in your slides we are going to have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:58",
    "text": "description about this and some other IPR stuff for a little bit later in the in the program so what I got talk about it right now there\u0027s also that always projects some other resources and tools throughout a wiki the routing area Directorate that we\u0027re gonna have a report from them as well later the blue sheets are going around etc as always we want to ask to please please please review documents the mission of the ATF is to make the internet work better that\u0027s what we have our documents that we produce for people to go implementing will deploy to go operate to go do whatever they do with the RFC\u0027s and high quality RFC\u0027s are important and this is the job of everyone the job of the people writing the RFC\u0027s of the working groups themselves of everyone in the working group of the chairs of the Shepherd so the abyzou everyone else electorate so please please review documents there are more keys in your keyboard than plus and one please use them as well please give us feedback if oh here\u0027s that work we\u0027re not gonna ask her where she was but you know so feedback to Elise if you have feedback order things we\u0027re doing well are there things we\u0027re not doing well please tell us if you want to use you open mic time at the end you can if you want to talk to us individually you can as well if you want to talk to the NomCom for example you can as well you know it\u0027s always a good thing now the NomCom has been given us feedback even when we are not up for selection for example so the last noncom period the long-term collective feedback pretty much for everyone and gave feedback back as well so that\u0027s another way to do it if you want to do that the agenda which I did not do in my slides here but as reflected on the online agenda is this one that I\u0027m gonna show soon that move somewhere I have a little duck and other things there is this agenda so we\u0027re going through the administrivia stuff of course I said Lou is going to talk a little bit about the note well the new node well Adrian is going to talk about RCC 701 what sanctions are available and why it\u0027s really really important to declare IPR early and then we\u0027re going to go into the lightning round of director reports "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:59",
    "text": "and working group and both reports and then I\u0027m gonna have enough time at the end to discuss the feature of the routing area the future of the world anything else you want to discuss that including of course I said before feedback to the ADIZ to the area to anything you want so the area hasn\u0027t changed much in the last since last time we haven\u0027t closed any working groups yeah oops we have created any working groups and we didn\u0027t in the last period we charter any workers rights I think I could yes it\u0027s not showing here either I don\u0027t know what\u0027s happening we also haven\u0027t changed the assignments of responsibilities to any of the working groups things have been pretty static but that\u0027s not a slay how we see things going in the longer 18 month plus time yeah so we see many more groups you know progressing there\u0027s probably a couple of working groups that in the short term we could close or finish the work and we see groups already maybe recharter that we should be talking about that as well so you know working group in general I think is progressing we just haven\u0027t done any upward changes we do have a bomb today after lunch that is in the routing area it\u0027s called the ideas Bluff hopefully while the chairs is here to talk in the lightning round so we can talk about it there that\u0027s it so in case you don\u0027t know who your ad is again this is Lea Debra and me El burro and those are assignments right now this is of course can change or we can shuffle chairs around or anything else we feel like so one of the issues that came up last IETF as a result of some of the work that was happening in that mod eagerly anticipated work I should say sorry this question so one of the pieces that came up was discussion on how to handle the revised data store or the network management data store architecture and MDA which I think it\u0027s demonstration that I\u0027m not the only one who can\u0027t come up with good acronyms how to handle guidance for yang models going forward because on the one hand we now have a really great planned architecture for how to handle different data stores and so what this means is things between you know configuration being able to see what was written but not necessarily is our the intended to be able to see that the operational state is to have what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:59",
    "text": "when you go and look at them are actually simpler much more easy to read yang models that aren\u0027t forced to depend on things like lots of groupings but that technology also needs net conformist comp extensions in order to be implementable and we all know there\u0027s an implementable right you know there\u0027s an implementation lag I would like to see the existing IETF models able to get finished and go out but you know RFC\u0027s are carefully chiseled into stone and so we had this dilemma of how to handle it so we decided after quite a lot of discussion that what we would like what we are recommending is if you\u0027re doing a yang model it should follow the nmda structure and for many models that works just fine there\u0027s not a need for a distinction between the configuration state and operational state however for some models depending on what\u0027s being modeled it does matter and for those we can have another module in the appendix which gives the state information so that\u0027s possible to do that until the revised data store work has been fully defined as far as the functionality in that MA in Netcom from rest comfort is really far along and in fact before that has a chance to get implemented so the yang models should be fully usable with being able to access the information needed now the gate should do it NMDA is something that you know it\u0027s a shut because this is the IHF and we\u0027re all really well aware that each example and use case you know each particular model may have some differences and its unique reason so we\u0027re certainly happy to talk about it but this is the recommendation Rob Wilson gave a very nice presentation on some of the details of this in our to GWT and if you haven\u0027t tragically seen that then if you\u0027re interested I would really recommend looking at and if you have any questions I guess I\u0027m the 82 hunt thanks any questions on this or anything else that we\u0027ve touched on did you all have coffee already I would like to propose that we assign someone to bring the ADEs coffee for next meeting anyone want to volunteer for that thank you Aryan it offered me half Novus Cup that\u0027s I might have last.fm to have full person so I\u0027m happy about that at least someone replies so I can ask for these days okay so we\u0027re gonna go into our next topic in the agenda which is Lu talking so I got stuck talking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:14",
    "text": "about this in MPLS and I guess the it was interesting enough to end up being asked to do it here obviously I need coffee too by the way so we have a new note well if we look at it you\u0027ll see that it looks a lot like the old one so what are the significant changes the the most significant change on this page is that we are now pointing to RFC 81-79 than the old RFC so there\u0027s a new document covering IPR disclosures in the IETF that means there\u0027s a new document to be familiar with the that document updates a number of items in a way that is intended to provide clarification to the disclosure rules based on questions that have arisen since the original document was published I did talk to the authors about sort of helping educate the folks on the details they\u0027ve posted a nice vlog that tells you identifies the areas that have been updated but they don\u0027t say what\u0027s been updated the plan fro is for George who\u0027s the lawyer for the ietf to prepare a detailed presentation on that and actually discuss it in Singapore I\u0027m not sure where it\u0027s going to be presented in Singapore but if you\u0027re really interested in being walked through the details as well as asked questions about the details of 81-79 there\u0027ll be an opportunity there but what are the key takeaways number one there\u0027s some clarification on what is a contribution they\u0027ve written up I mentioned that the authors wrote up a little blog one of the things they mention there is is anything that you do to contribute to the process or to provide input to the process that we follow here in any of the forums that we provide that includes rooms like this our email jabber any electronic media any personal media in any of this worms any contribution even as something as subtle as a frown in a public forum can be taken as a contribution so for example John just contributed by sort of smiling at my comment now it turns out I don\u0027t have any IPR on this so it\u0027s not a big deal but if I was talking about a technical idea and he smiled and that was taken by maybe the chairs a support and he knows of some IPR that\u0027s related to this and the reason he\u0027s smiling is he yeah that\u0027s my thing I\u0027m gonna get it advanced he just contributed and he would under the new rules be obligated to disclose so the document also tries "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:20",
    "text": "to be pretty explicit explicit on what do you do if you don\u0027t want to disclose or can\u0027t disclose we\u0027ve all come in to see situations or many of us have come into situations where we know that there of some technology that we personally are patent a patent an ink or that the company work for that someone working with has a patent in the process and they don\u0027t want to talk about it what do we do that that\u0027s going to happen this is clarified in the document it basically says you can\u0027t contribute at all you can\u0027t smile or frown when that discussion has taken place when that occurred with me personally I never entered the room that the working group was discussing that idea that I was working on I didn\u0027t subscribe to the mailing list I occasionally read archives but in no way did I contribute in that area that was my personal take on how to deal with the situation you all should read the document become familiar with it and decide what your own personal take is on how to deal with compliance with your IPR disclosure responsibilities one other thing the document does that the previous document did not do is point to RFC 67 and one which covers sanctions of what can the IETF do when someone doesn\u0027t comply with their SLOS or responsibilities adrienne\u0027s can actually going to talk about that a little bit the one thing I want to talk about the last thing I want to mention is what is the responsibility of an IPR holder so someone who is not a participant in the IETF but holds IPR what is their responsibility to the IETF process turns out it\u0027s nothing they have no responsibility to disclose their IPR they have no responsibility to come to the IETF and talk about it they have no responsibility to say that the thing you\u0027re doing directly matches my path we can\u0027t compel anyone to do anything who is not involved in our process what we can do is tell contributors folks in the room what their responsibilities are and then if they don\u0027t comply with responsibilities take steps based on that and with that we\u0027re gonna hear from Adrian he\u0027s going to talk about those steps any questions before I run away thank you thanks [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:23",
    "text": "I\u0027m Adrian I have more slides than Loeb that promise to be quicker even how full the room is maybe the ADEs if babies think this is an important topic there may be other fora for distributing the information so I am NOT a lawyer that\u0027s actually quite important for me to save my own protection and for you to be aware of and I\u0027m also not studying law so this is this is important legal stuff it affects your life protect yourself and your employer your employer probably has somebody responsible for all this use them get advice find out what process you should be following and use them to file disclosures on your behalf so that you can hide behind them while still fulfilling your requirements so why sanctions the point is that we want people to disclose all disclosures are good because they help us understand what we\u0027re building and why but the late ones can be disruptive we might have to go back and revisit work but they\u0027re still better than no disclosure very late disclosures for example disclosures that come only after an RFC has been published I can actually be really disruptive we may have to return stuff to the working group we may have to rescind an RFC with completely different mechanisms but there still better than no disclosure because still you actually know what IPR is out there so what do we do what does it mean when somebody files a late or a very late disclosure or when they completely failed to disclose well firstly it shows a lack of respect it shows a lack of risk for the ITF for the people who work here for the industry and my opinion it shows a lack of respect for the work that an individual is doing it can be really disruptive because we\u0027ve invested a lot of time and energy in a particular solution and now we need to go back and decide whether we do it all again it may trick us into making the particular protocol choice that we thought we were making and like I\u0027m a toss of a coin but actually if we\u0027d known about the IPR we\u0027d have gone a different way it may actually be bad in law and I\u0027ll come on to that in a moment and just essentially it\u0027s an abuse of the igf process by being here you have signed up to follow the ITF process so what do we do about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:25",
    "text": "that RFC six 7:01 describes and sanctions that can be applied by the ITF to people who abuse the IPR process it\u0027s pretty clear that the punishment should fit the crime okay so we have so far not had any executions for violation of IPR rules but there have been cases where where minor things have been done the decisions and punishments are made by the working group chairs working with their abs for support and if you are a working group chair and this sort of thing happens I strongly advise you talk to the ad straight up so that you\u0027ve got backing for whatever you do and you should also talk to the individual concerned because they may have a legitimate reason why something went wrong and you don\u0027t want to punishment then too strongly my team might want to you might enjoy it but you shouldn\u0027t so what might happen in the ITF 6701 has got this long list that ranges from just having a chat to having a chat in public so that everybody knows it\u0027s happened or even a reprimand some form of name and shame that can actually be really quite powerful you might move on especially with the repeat offenders to say well you\u0027re not going to actually edit anymore working group drafts or we\u0027re not going to accept any drafts that come from you because you\u0027ve you\u0027ve blown it too often and you might remove somebody from editing position you might even deprecated their RFC\u0027s and at the far end of this people can be banned from mailing lists and that starts with a temporary ban which I think it\u0027s 30 days from a working group mailing list and escalates to a year-long ban from a working group list which can then be picked up automatically by other IETF lists so it becomes a full idea one year ban and in absolute extreme cases that can be made into a permanent but revisit able ban from IETF mailing lists so we can at the top end of this say you just messed us about too often no more participation there may be mitigation but a lot of mitigation I think is is fragile excuses so there really is no excuse under the law and the law is you will declare if you\u0027re making a contribution but you know stuff happens so every situation has to be looked at unreasonable excuses I have heard I forgot oh you forgot that\u0027s still a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:25",
    "text": "violation I forgot about this patent well whose patent was it you you have a duty to remember I have so many patents I can\u0027t be expected to track them all well actually you can be expected to track them all you are expected to if you believe you\u0027ve got this problem that you\u0027re so prolific in patterns then stop being prolific in the ITF you can\u0027t have both nice one I asked my company to disclose but they didn\u0027t well what you\u0027re promising to do when participate is that a disclosure will happen in a reasonable amount of time so when that reasonable amount of time expires and your company has still not disclosed get out or file a third-party disclosure against your own company that\u0027s kind of fun but that happens when you move to a new company okay you had you wrote a patent with company X you\u0027re now a company why you can\u0027t influence company X to disclose that patent but you know about it you can either do a third-party disclosure saying I believe company X may have IPR that\u0027s all you have to say or don\u0027t participate and the last point is that courts may also apply sanction so this is why your employer really needs to pay attention because in the end patents may come to court and courts have been known to be quite aggressive when they hear that a standards bodies procedures have been violated they can do things like force that the patent holder to license at very cheap terms or they can even strike down a whole patent so this patent is no longer valid and so your employer probably doesn\u0027t want to mess with the courts because they had the whole point of them having IPR is is to use it profitably I will also accept questions or coffee Lou is going to get me coffee damn question water please hi I realize I forgot to say something it\u0027s all ask you a question when am i obligated to disclose when I know that my contribution is covered by my company\u0027s IPR or anyone\u0027s like the art I believe that George has used the words as soon as reasonably possible so this is a good discussion for George we should ask him but I think it says before you actually make the contribution or as you\u0027re making the contribution so I think that\u0027s interesting and I think we choose as in the response as chairs to be a little more lenient but I think the rules say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:25",
    "text": "as soon as you are making the contribution you\u0027re supposed to be making the deck let\u0027s interesting we may have tightened that up and certainly exactly I think this is one of the changes if you if you observe that and say I will always disclose before I contribute then you\u0027re safe then you check thoroughly suppose I have a patent on on an area given area I don\u0027t believe my gradient is impacting that work but at the ATF does is there a contact point I can check with as a contributor not not the chair or and how can I know that the ATF believes there\u0027s a my my APR is impacting your work what\u0027s really interesting about this is that should never occur because the I the ietf should never make a judgement on whether or not IPR applies that\u0027s whether a disclosure has been made or it hasn\u0027t been made that\u0027s not for the IETF to decide now another individual may go look at a patent and do a third party disclosure on you saying hey this this IPR exists I found it and I think it applies but we won\u0027t judge that it\u0027s not the IDF\u0027s role to judge the applicability of a patent that\u0027s courts job so I\u0027m Louie Anderson I have question I think to alien if we say that or maybe Louie I don\u0027t know if we say that we need to disclose as soon as you make a contribution does that really mean that we should do an IPR call on every new document that actually sent to the working group so this is six seven oh two which is discusses measures to ensure that people are conforming to the VIP our rules and 702 is really clear that you do not ever need to do an IPR power on anything okay so working group chairs are applying six 702 differently depending on how they feel that their working group has been burnt in the past some of them don\u0027t do IPR polls at all because you will notice that by being named on a draft you\u0027ve already made the commitment some don\u0027t do polls at all because they the note well when you sign up yep everything you see the note well so you\u0027ve already made the commitment but others are giving IPR polls at key times just to remind people so back to your question should we do an IPR poll every time lower pawns a face in the room at least I think that would be disruptive to our process yeah that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:26",
    "text": "where I\u0027m going want couple additional things it\u0027s the working group chairs call and how that\u0027s run today there is a question in the Shepherd right up that asks about has I don\u0027t remember the exact phrasing but it is is there IPR and have you asked if there\u0027s an IPR so there is some obligation for the Shepherd it\u0027s not on that working group chair actually on the shepherd to ensure that the disclosures that everyone has followed the disclosure process so how do they ensure that the only way I know how to do it is by by asking it it\u0027s actually only applied to what doesn\u0027t contribute it\u0027s not to the working group members in general I don\u0027t believe that\u0027s true that may be how it\u0027s so we just heard from Joel saying that the text is as low as characterized I think the obligation though of on IPR disclosure applies to anyone who contributes in in on a particular Peck so if you contribute on a topic you have that obligation whether or not you\u0027re just sitting in the room or you\u0027re the editor you\u0027re the author the obligations are the same according to was it 81 79 whatever the new RFC numbers so slightly other subject and when we have it we actually ban someone from a mailing list because of IP IP or disclosure violations we actually stop that person from doing a kind of future IPR disclosure so it\u0027s something that is kind of a bit blunt if we if we know that that was named or more than one document in the working group if I ban him it can\u0027t make it as loose on the other so I just made a contribution there and which people who watch in my face would have noticed that\u0027s not the case company disclosures are made by the made through the web package for disclosing so you can do that and you can obviously you can read any mailing list and see what\u0027s going on so you can be aware that there\u0027s also sorry before you you ask a question if you want to say real quick there it is true yes we don\u0027t have to ask everyone it has been I think a good prayer he practice in the area which i think is a good practice to remind people whether they have anything to disclose at key moments many working groups right it\u0027s been my experience adoption working group let\u0027s call that should be enough to remind people that they need to disclose right in case they whatever happened so I just wanna say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:28",
    "text": "that that I think we believe that this is a good practice and something that those of you who are already doing it should continue to do so yeah I know Gabe can put a loud kiss I actually think it\u0027s a good practice for working groups to make this call earlier because as it stands today you can have a standard that could very well be an IPR by a company and an implementer it would be great for implementers to know if there is such a case than how do they go about handling such situations so a working group would be a right place right and operationally I think is to follow moreover I said when it\u0027s a key moment there\u0027s a tendency to do that at adoption and at last call and that sort of travis burg so the question is that\u0027s in the Delta about 3 to 18 months between filing kpr and it appears first time on light so I\u0027ve witnessed there\u0027s possibility after declining IPR which is unavailable online so it\u0027s unavailable in general to say I don\u0027t know what your care is but I don\u0027t like it so I want your document to progress she looks available which could take any time afterwards so I think you\u0027re alluding to what does the working group do what if IPR is disclosed and whether or not you can read it or not the process is the ITF doesn\u0027t discuss the substance of the disclosure whether the or the validity of it now working group participants are more than welcome to take whatever steps they think are appropriate to then vote or to voice an opinion on whether or not they support the work that has been covered by an IPR disclosure some groups are really want to push towards sort of open licensing I know this has been in the security area they have made it they\u0027ve intentionally avoided encumbered technologies that\u0027s been the choice of that group of the groups doing that work in a particular working group if there\u0027s an IPR disclosure the group can decide whether or not it wants to proceed with the technology with the draft with the based on that IPR disclosure it\u0027s a working group consensus process it\u0027s not about the validity of the or the applicability or the correctness or necessarily even all the details certainly it\u0027s helpful for people to form their opinions based on what the details are but in terms of our process we\u0027re not going to discuss those details will only discuss whether there\u0027s consensus on a document I\u0027m moving a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:29",
    "text": "document forward sir so I think part of your point Jeff is that it\u0027s impossible to engineer a solution around IPR that you can\u0027t see exactly so one of the influencing factors that individual participants may consider when deciding whether or not to engineer around a solution is what the licensing terms are now for clarity I am NOT seeking to influence the way that companies license their IPR however however if they license if the license that comes along with a piece of IPR that you can\u0027t see says if you implement this we will come and take your firstborn then it\u0027s likely that people are going to try to engineer around it whereas if the license says hey you know what we\u0027ve got IPR but you can have it for nothing then people are probably not going to try to engineer around it so that that comes into the mix when looking at this but we still have that problem if somebody says discloses either the IPR here but I\u0027m not telling me what it is yeah I\u0027m it\u0027s a problem yeah knife is a problem so before we run off stage just a reminder you just have two people talking about their personal opinions here talk to your company attorneys read the documents for yourselves and if you have questions and want to hear from the IETF Saturn II that\u0027s that\u0027ll happen in Singapore but right now you\u0027ve just heard from two individuals not anything beyond that even though you show him right even though we may wear certain hats in the IDF these are were just two individuals talking about our personal perspectives thank you and when you consider your legal options remember that I didn\u0027t actually say anything you guys agree with me so good that\u0027s that\u0027s a good thing and my jokes are not protected by any IPR you may repeat them at any time you want good okay so we\u0027re gonna go into the exciting world of working group updates and we\u0027re gonna go to the wiki sure so I noticed that despite my requests babble hasn\u0027t filled itself out yet do we have a babble chair in the room to give their report Oh Thank You Russell excellent now I don\u0027t have to ad-lib you don\u0027t have to yell at me well I thought it was already filled "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:29",
    "text": "out so there you go that\u0027s our coordination we need a better coordination between bevel what happened in the working group this week is we decided to go offline to talk about unicast loz that meeting is happening today we agreed on a consensus around several changes to the available drafts for the Biss and pretty much that\u0027s it we\u0027re moving forward there was a presentation about beer in babble but or Babel but we decided to sideline that until we think about it more before we call for working the production or anything until we see requirements and you know stuff like that so pretty simple meaning lots of energy in the room lots of really cool ideas being floated so best this next needle Martin or Thomas will be here today they are here however so the working group was making progress as usual with the very clear and straightforward EPM and VPN type documents this is one of the type of documents that I would encourage everyone to go read they\u0027re very very inspiring there\u0027s work going on of course new work in 2003 and yeah bottles and everything else you can read the numbers out there so since we\u0027d like to get through this quickly I\u0027d request folks who are the networking group chair for the next alphabetical working groups to start queuing up or being prepared Thanks we could make this take longer so BFD is not meeting this ITF the work that we have in progress right now is the multi point documents are going through working group last call we\u0027ve got some feedback on there and we\u0027re waiting to hear from an implementer in terms of what their implementation does in terms of matching the spec we\u0027re having some issues of the PFD yang module in terms of how it interacts with the IG key modules you know and the IG PE chairs will point out we\u0027ve gone back and forth on this a few times you know the solution that\u0027s currently in both documents is neither of them will actually talk to each other this actually asked to be addressed and we\u0027ll try to get a short virtual interim after the session we had some fun in the MPLS session about the DFT directed in the future this is partially an issue an IPR partially a matter of whether or not the working group thinks it\u0027s these will feature and potentially change to 58 84 there are also two other drafts for VfB they\u0027re being presented in the MPLS session this Friday "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:30",
    "text": "dear Greg is here don\u0027t worry I\u0027m here can you open up so I can read you look nothing in there hi there that\u0027s not true just refreshed well let me refresh it again we just had this dialogue I\u0027ve put this up that\u0027s bizarre huh all right we have bunch of drafts that actually come another last call now we have one an acute architecture graph we\u0027ve got one outstanding discuss on that but I think has been addressed really well by the list and the authors but whoever\u0027s got the name the discuss hasn\u0027t really fed back yet the other point that\u0027s probably gonna be launched now from the group is our work towards justifying move from experimental standards just following the the Charter information getting the draft in place reaching the you know the full four bullet points that are from there and then feedback in the field I put it up this morning there was an edit merge that took place when I first did it someone else had it and then I merged it and saw the diffs it was pre-coffee but so so please remember that we\u0027re the middle of the week so ideally you maybe put information even before you mean so some of you may actually have to go on refresh notice right so yeah thanks Shirley foresee camp I\u0027m happy to see that our contribution is the right private right part of the branch of the merge so we\u0027re meeting twice as usual we have a joint young session with other working groups of the writing era teas on pls MPC is time exhausted by teas we are meeting on Thursday afternoon session one and immediately after with our cecum dedicated session I lied so we still have to design team some work for microwave one for transport and bi the microwave the design team is doing pretty well going faster they had the two deliverables both documents are now working group documents they also participated at to the hackathon and the day one as best contribution regarding the transport MDI we two documents now we are in the process of adopting them young models we have a number a huge number of drafts or optical OT n IP over WDM and we recently adopted also UTM topology and the tunnel models which are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:32",
    "text": "an augmentation of the t\u0027s document the Tito college and the TA tunnel model stay tuned we have one rough in the editor cube it\u0027s been there for a while because we decided to to put it on older and have the general and emotionalized working tease and make this work depend on that a lot of lessons we write a lot one of going to the itu-t four-plex Ethernet and three incoming liaisons on flex Ethernet Oh TNT from I tube and BBF ok Pat Taylor dead net so the focus for this meeting is moving forward on the data plane we think we\u0027re converging on pseudo wire MPLS and IP / 802 dot 1 TSN we\u0027re also looking at the definition of the service parameters and we\u0027re talking about the traffic treatment that\u0027s required and we\u0027re going to have discussions on security and there\u0027s also a little demonstration of the debt net data plane actually protection for failover so there\u0027s a cute little Lego robot that is balancing and we show that yep we can keep from losing the packets and keep the robot to balance without falling over when we take a link down so that\u0027s basically it I\u0027m out u.s. we had two sessions this week we have two main data models topology and rip-rip has both info model and and regular model follow they\u0027re both past working group or working group last call we are grateful to the yang doctors who are reviewing and we hope to have this back at the ISSG and approved that\u0027s our hope there are interest in to date new data miles a fabric and a split between data plane and user we need two editors for two main documents so our second half of the session was an editing - which again we are grateful to the new revised datastore team that came and gave us a suggestions I am looking for a few editors or authors for the two main documents for the ephemeral datastore and for a rest comp thing if you\u0027re interested in working on that please see me the second session will really be an editor session I will be there but we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:32",
    "text": "will probably change the location I\u0027ll probably just be at the registration desk looking for an editor please contact me most of these documents are done and we think if we just have a long editing session we can close it off here okay I guess I need to step aside and wait for the ideas off and then I\u0027m just going to stand here because our idea okay it looks like the ideas about chairs are not here to moose in ski and Brian habberman are the chair to that bar which is going to happen this afternoon right after lunch at 1:30 I\u0027m not sure where so like any other bar while we\u0027re here we\u0027re gonna talk about the problem safely and some discussion about what needs to be done and then this is intended to be a working group for me Bob some of the normal questions are gonna be asked is the problem statement clear is this work that the ATF should do who\u0027s going to actually do the work and then we\u0027ll see where we go from there so please go to the ideas off this afternoon okay idea idea is Thursday 9:00 to 12:00 our topics are we still are considering trying to respond to operators and make sure we\u0027re getting through thing i sat again at the Grove working group and we found we\u0027re still not getting through some of the things the operators need so again we encourage operators to be there and tell us what we need to do we\u0027re trying to get rid of squatting by early allocation or changing allocation so please come and see the chairs list we really have things on the list on bTW pls John\u0027s got a really good discussion thread there if you want to talk about it John\u0027s here and he\u0027ll take care of it say John okay other things we\u0027re going to talk about our flowspec our flowspec b1 head again operator input and we believe that the revision that now makes it clears up any speck problems is ready for working group last call we have bgp tunnel attributes route server b FD interaction to make sure link loss that is piece taken care brought that should be route leak not lead prevention I need more coffee and we have new work that\u0027s either reviewing gross stuff on congestion or fib or link logical come and see the new work and listen this is a good idea RS we have a little extra time this time so come and ask questions by yeah so ice ice Matt on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:37",
    "text": "Monday oh I guess the vs item would be that we\u0027re discussing combining OSPF and ice is again seems like the last time we did this I say a lot more sort of separate stuff and we have a lot more overlap lately with segment routing so that\u0027s one of the reasons that we\u0027re looking at all so they get cross-pollination between the two so we talked about this in the in the working group and surprising sort of 50/50 split on whether people wanted to do it or not there were a lot of opinions I\u0027m sure that will carry over maybe into the list in the meantime the plan is to run an experiment and we\u0027re going to try to combine the list that\u0027s appearing to be harder than we thought it would be but yeah we\u0027ll figure something out so ice ice meal will go to OSPF OSPF Millwood is is and hopefully not loop and then we\u0027ll run a combined session not just a back-to-back session so everybody can leave after the first one that doesn\u0027t care about the second one and then we\u0027ll see how people feel about it and whether it seems like it works or it\u0027s a hassle go from there the other issue the other things I guess of note are we have two new RFC\u0027s the auto configuration and then the this update to multi topology and also we have something the LG bundles is about to go RFC it said in this wrap Oh l2tp txt I don\u0027t see anybody here they\u0027re not meeting he had one new RFC and that was on their ipv6 tunnel okay Lisp met on Monday 1:30 we\u0027ve had one RFC recently published very many thanks to our 80s and to the RFC editor and tyanna because we ran into a little code point allocation problem and everybody worked together to solve it so that was great we\u0027ve got one document on her final iesg review one in working group last call a bunch of things we\u0027ve adopted for interesting work the real key is those two main documents right there sixty-eight 30 bits in 1633 bits both are in good shape are progressing our goal is to get those two proposed standard and we are hoping to hand those up soon I don\u0027t know what soon means yet the per Adrienne\u0027s screed somewhere but we\u0027re trying that\u0027s the thing that is currently the high priority for the working group and so we\u0027re going to do that there\u0027s some individual drafts there have been some individual drafts that requested adoption and not enough people spoke up and so we said well okay there\u0027s still individual drafts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:46",
    "text": "Lynnae I don\u0027t see Justin or staying here when they didn\u0027t meet this time I didn\u0027t have to say that the same as there are IP are possible sanctions for not disclosing there are possible sanctions for not filling out the wiki and one of them that adrian mention as effective is naming and shaming so I\u0027m officially publicly shaming Justin and staying for not filling out their their status here at least in the other cases where the service will fill the chair was able to stay that here nothing double chain to them so a case my name is I meet there\u0027s a steady progress on the lip extensions that have been I think making the progress and the in the mailing list I don\u0027t know if you guys are standing there because you have to say something about money or not yeah but neither chairs here but we\u0027re both you\u0027re working on some other things and so we\u0027re talking hopefully about d-lab extensions so so there\u0027s stuff going on this this meeting even though the chairs are not opening session so it\u0027s great that work is making progress that\u0027s what\u0027s expected still third round up opportunity for radio okay so I\u0027m Louie Anderson speaking for MPLS we have had capital thing that has been kind of rocking things a bit George couldn\u0027t travel and our secretary couldn\u0027t travel this time George because of financing I think and tarik because of weather it was raining in Toronto so we had one session yesterday Nick and I think we actually could made it through that second acceptable level we have a new session of Friday we can just continue on the agenda and on Thursday we had the joint session on gang models so in that first session we had we discussed one document and I didn\u0027t want to be particular but you\u0027re already mention it it\u0027s a bit indirect in document we discussed the IP our process and I think we are closing on that one and we have technical comments on the document that we haven\u0027t closed yet we also have quite a bit the new work coming in not like it was like five years ago but it\u0027s actually picking up coming new dowse coming in and pretty good shapes we have three new our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:47",
    "text": "seasons last time and interesting enough we have two drafts that are very interesting for the mpls working group coming out of the pals and if we look at the list we have about twenty documents updated since since Chicago thank you hi Matthew Bochy for mvo 3 so we\u0027re meeting this afternoon at 3:20 we make all the progress now on data plain encapsulation so the working group is kind of selected draft you need for standards transition within the working group the last ITF we held an experiment and held some roundtables discussions on control playing security and data plane related work and the security work certainly security roundtable was quite productive and has resulted in some new drafts in the working group that we are discussing this afternoon ran requirements and architecture and solutions for security with drogyny we also another thing of note is that we try to adopt a couple of drafts that were an output of the routine working group Valais REM design team and a lot of pushback in the working group to adopting these mostly regarding the desirability of a common header across different encapsulations and whether or not this is really necessary am I currently trying to resolve this issue in the working group so it\u0027s quick status update 1u RFC since the last ITF use cases for dCPP ends and the MDI three multicast framework is currently with for their AZ linden we met yesterday we had our nice intimate meeting are adjacent to MPLS chris already covered the fact that we\u0027re going to have a truly joint meeting in Singapore as an experiment with the like like topics interleaved for instance if we have segment routing or attributes we talked about attribute reuse or things like that we talked about both protocols back-to-back in terms of OSPF specific highlights the extended attributes for OSPF III we have two we have two implementations when we\u0027re gonna proceed toward our publication on that and that\u0027s really a great milestone because then we\u0027ll get to a truly TLV based protocol not only for the that LSAs we\u0027ve added in recent years but the base "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:47",
    "text": "lsas the te attribute of been discussing this for a long time we have a meeting among to talk about how we get consensus forward let\u0027s see it\u0027s tomorrow that\u0027s an ongoing discussion and we didn\u0027t have any new RFC\u0027s but I think the segment routing draft is ready for ad review again and the tunnel end gap draft is also ready for ad [Music] and emails for pals we we\u0027ve actually had some work of interest come up lately there\u0027s been some problems observed in the field with Ethernet pseudo wires as a result of some implementations or operators not using the control word I\u0027m not on Ethernet pseudo wise with the result that some MAC addresses in the embedded Ethernet frames of being looked at by the router and being identified incorrectly as ipv4 or ipv6 with result that ecmp is being applied to Ethernet flows which is the wrong thing to do so working on a draft to make sure that people are aware that you really do need to be using the control work for Ethernet so the wires and the the two co-chairs of the working group are the co-authors in this draft so Mathew Bochy has agreed to be the Shepherd for this draft and and to run the process other than that we had one other thing come up in our meeting on Monday that was a proposal for a pseudo wire yang data model however I have to thank the best working because the the best working group has been very happy to work on a unified yang data model for both l2 VPN and pseudo wires so we spoke to the authors of this proposal and tell them to to basically fold in their work with the ongoing working best so we don\u0027t have multiple solutions going on for the same problem other than that we\u0027ve been extremely prolific and working towards shutting down since November 2015 the last year in three quarters we\u0027ve published 14-hour seas we have four more that are coming out soon and right now we have no other working group drafts but but the but the one on Ethernet pseudo wires will be the last one we think and after that we\u0027ll be talking - Debra about the future of the working group genomic-based competition element "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:47",
    "text": "working group we are meeting yesterday evening riding a bit with the best departure for the social anyway it was mr. listing meeting one of the major heaven related to the PC working group is the chant of secretary Daniel King step down so we thank him for the work on Ravi as agreed to be our new secretary so thank to him - main topic this Turkish yesterday the use of the PC as a central controller some work related to the stateful DC extensions and the Yorkie call ways of using the the PCE some optical specific extensions on we may also mention the disagreement that ended the session yesterday that may require some talk with Deborah who\u0027s already aware of the topic there from the administrative perspective we have we haven\u0027t published in EOC since the previous meeting but we really think we will have a bunch of them before the next ITF because we are for Indy receive little q3 with the AG on some other coming up in the near future so we hope that considering dependency between a set of the documents there they will be released soon on published as RFC s thanks so protocols for IP multicast are still alive and well for better or for worse we met yesterday morning with an Bondi ops group back to back we\u0027ve done that for several ITF now and it\u0027s worked quite well I foresee us continuing to do that on the off side a lot of interesting use cases for multicast and discussions about deprecating ASM and Wi-Fi multicast and on the protocol side pim a lot of progress happening on Yang we have public publication requested for both p.m. and IGMP MLD yang grass there may need to be some update with new yang config formats happening but they are progressing a couple new documents that are progressing Stig presented a draft that appeared to be well received with regards to accessing an ipv4 prefix over an ipv6 next hop and when there\u0027s multiple RPF neighbors that are v4 neighbors how do you choose so that\u0027s its that\u0027s interesting network so otherwise we plan to meet again in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:48",
    "text": "Singapore thank you hi for all we are going to meet tomorrow in the afternoon and then we have a working group last corner document like a use case for use of a ripple in form where we had some updates to RFC 65536 t5 50 so we want to the work group to decide if they argue or not and then we are working in the working group topics that we have recharter and we have the seasonal routing header finished that is the RFC 81 3 8 okay so the topics that we charted and we are working currently it\u0027s like constrain multicast routing multicast for repo and our projection the modifications already be a ripple they want to be presented tomorrow and we are now and we are not going to present like this modification and get model for MPL this time additionally we are going to have hair related internet represented tomorrow as well it\u0027s about the parents election okay thank you Rosen we are meeting twice side here highlight good progress in the health models representation routing in data center progressing on seven charging fast convergence is going to presentation VPN plus which has to do with slicing some other stuff so we all step short presentations and informational drop er Ian must have put together you talk about systematic approach to latency which definitely affects routing status we\u0027ve got one year of C young model for keychain two drafts are with SG we are going through working group last column young crowding types and there are few more drugs that are in process SFC Monday the important work is we\u0027re trying to get the nsh document completed we are this close of course we keep being this close but I think we have a draft 15 which addresses all of the comments the working group members made either on the list or in the meeting so we hope to be able to hand that off on Jim and I have to do our reviews and then I\u0027ve got a shepherd write-up for the ad as soon as that\u0027s done a lot of discussion on OAM lots of different things people want to do with OAM different approaches to em we\u0027re trying to get the framework so that we can say okay all of the OEM solutions have to do this much the same and then you can do your own thing for what you want to do for the problem you want to solve so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:49",
    "text": "can get clarity we\u0027re trying to move that work forward there\u0027s some work on the MD types for how we carry metadata work is basically making good progress cider so Cindy is not here she then travel chris is here so I\u0027m gonna have to chain again sandy and Chris we\u0027re not pulling this out cider didn\u0027t meet this week so actually this is Chris powers here you might want to check the revisions because I went and looked at the revisions on the wiki for example Greg did in fact post something on beer at version 31 so you might be for shaming I just want to you know save you from that shame of false shaming you might want to check the history there I\u0027m not saying that this is a case but it could be there so it\u0027s because Greg\u0027s are down there in 30 and 31 I just want to point out right so Greg is there so before the record we didn\u0027t actually chain Greg I I understand I understand I just wanted to avoid any unnecessary shining\u0027 okay so after review the history I\u0027m going to renew my chaining of Chris not Chris Myers Chris morrow just so that were clear and Sandy the chair so the sides are working scigirls i was saying didn\u0027t meet this time mostly because as you may remember from a couple years ago we pretty much finished to work we opened a new working group that has been meeting last two ICS where Chris also chair called cider ops in the ops area or we now that\u0027s causing of course operational working etc cider still has one draft in the working group that should be really close were already in working to bless call once that goes through the process we are gonna close working group right now we have about eight or ten documents in our 48 the RFC editor has been doing an incredible job in getting everyone synced and and we hope to do in the next few weeks hopefully or maybe a couple months publish everything as services who know the cotton spring so spring is not meeting this week in term of highlights we have the spring conflict resolution "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:49",
    "text": "which is under working with brass quorum which is good because it has been a long discussion in to working group starting in I sighs I\u0027m moving to spring so we\u0027re progressing as of today we have eight big documents in our is G ends my stuff next steps we still have a few ones to progress we have started in shitting a description on possible early shelter although we may adopt a shoe or a couple of one in the meantime them up statues we have just then sent to ing as yet interact draft so monix part of the eighth one I\u0027ll ask part of the review of zom your skills we\u0027ve got to command that it\u0027s more than the new use case our only tidier to stop tracks we have to discuss that I\u0027m telling me a big thanks to to our Laurel which has a big set of large document to Trimble so thank you I won\u0027t be run for teas we met for our regular session yesterday morning we have what is now like this customary joint young session coming up tomorrow afternoon in terms of highlights the modeling work that\u0027s being done as reached of an acceptable level of maturity the tea topology model is nmda compliant now and as padarthas its last quality the tea and RSVP models are not NMDA compliant but there are significant portions of the models which are sufficiently baked in terms of ECT and the framework and requirement Stockman\u0027s are almost ready for last call there\u0027s a records from the chairs to pull in some text from an individual draft or either one or both of these documents apart from that these of sufficiently cut there are also a few other documents and the day CT number love which are progressing quite well and getting ready for adoption we also adopted some new work this this drafter that talks about srl ESPYs and RSVP LS these coincidence that caught our not recently in terms of darkman status we have one new RFC six of which we put in publication request in recent weeks and there are two new adoptions and I\u0027m glad to be last trill tremors commuting a lot of existing work we have about 17 drafts going to working group last call we know this because a prior to that I hiatus we know this because we\u0027ve been gratefully accepting the revision that the that the ATS did to the routing Directorate we trill had a lot of drafts that we\u0027re sitting waiting for routing Directorate review they\u0027re people who have been very good to review things for us thanks we have nice engineering "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:50",
    "text": "solutions by the way if you\u0027re in vo3 you should really look at some of the stuff that\u0027s going through at the end at least you can learn from what what we\u0027ve gained we have areas of work that are being convened it completed in these 17 drafts for directory service multi topology multi-level security ECM we are having this time very focused drafts on things which these reviews uncovered for example TRO over IP we finally got a really terrific COO review from Magna Switzerland and he pointed out a whole bunch of things previously we\u0027ve gotten a really good review from Alvaro on and the in director on optimization and we\u0027re just talking about these things and some things with wine green living we\u0027re presenting one or two less pieces of new work that will are in the middle of Dobson prior to our hiatus so and then this is one of the drafts so if you are one of the people in routing who\u0027s asked to review all these drafts know that ahead of time we really appreciate it thank you great thank you to everyone what we did not change it\u0027s great to thank you for closing with thinking that the rectoress we\u0027re gonna go John is going to present a quick report on the routing directory we know that many of you are part of that so thank you for that work one of the reasons that I like this it\u0027s not just that it is you know so exciting for everyone but also because it informs write what people are doing the work comes around the record some things that popped out at me just because I\u0027m thinking about that is there were a couple of there\u0027s a couple of work that for example could be leveraged we could leverage other people reviews is not only that we talked about at the beginning reviews are only the work of the route directory it\u0027s the work of everyone and we can leverage say other working groups for example there was some architecture work I think on multicast like a picture for something that fit me is there right there\u0027s a bunch of multicast people in him there\u0027s some work that I saw in the raw report around multicast well you know we don\u0027t have to adopt the work anywhere but we could send it for a review there\u0027s this work that was called just now on its oral aural existence there\u0027s something similar in spring for SR and LTP interoperability so you know there\u0027s some synergy right not overlap necessarily but some synergy between the working group so it\u0027s good that we take advantage not just of the central review opportunities that we have but of each other if we already have expertise in the area or elsewhere in the ITF that\u0027s a good answer to that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:50",
    "text": "so with that John please he\u0027s going to do a quick ok so just a quick report from the rats and directorates covering the last four months and this is on behalf of myself and Amy who\u0027s the other coordinator for overacting directorates thanks so I just a reminder of the role the rats and Directorate is a panel of rats and Gary experts and they\u0027re appointed by the ADEs we currently have 46 people on this panel and by job is on the panel to provide expert reviews of drafts which can either be out by ATF last call either from inside the routing area or from outside the routing area or before we get to the ITF last call while the documents are still in the working groups we the director can do early reviews and those documents so if chairs want sort of external pair of eyes to come in and have a look at a document see you know just to get a second opinion on it or you know just to do some sort of quality check then the Directorate do that too we tend to assign our reviews across a Directorate using round robins so if you\u0027re on by Directorate it means you could end up with some random drafts a review you don\u0027t need to be a deep expert in that area of technology in fact it\u0027s usually better if you\u0027re not because then you can sort of take a higher level view and look for for wider issues maybe check for readability or things that are not explained which a working group will not necessarily see but we\u0027ve become really important once you get the the draft over longer the process to the iesg but we will occasionally handpick reviewers so if the chair needs a particular expertise to review a draft then we can do that too okay more information on the wiki these statistics just to show you what the Directorate has done this last ITF period we reviewed 32 drafts there are about 50/50 split between ITF lascall reviews and working group reviews maybe a few more of the ITF last call the the way the drafts we\u0027ve reviewed rate breakdown by by area sorry by working group kind of changes each time so there\u0027s you know it\u0027s how we had lost some wrath on working group and quite a few from tease but that\u0027s just sort of a kind of counting goes as drastic umber of the cycle in terms of results three percent of drafts we reviewed who are not ready I think that\u0027s just one of the 32 the rest of the time for Directorate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:52",
    "text": "for finding nits in 21 percent finding issues which are you know problems to discuss but not necessarily blocking problems in 58 percent of the drafts we reviewed and 20 21 percent had nets which are sort of editorial things so I mean the 58 percent figure is cave the directory does find real issues in post document all it is really worth having you address reviewed in the Directorate meantime to review a draft by the director is about 15 days and I think that\u0027s just a factor of the fact that most chairs ask for a 14 day deadline on the ombré review and people are pretty good and sticking to deadlines then finally just a big thank you to everyone who works in the Directorate and does these reviews because you know it says non-trivial exercise it takes time and we\u0027re very grateful for your efforts hey good Adrian Farrell so thank you right back at you administrating this I\u0027d like the ADEs to comment on that 58 percent because clearly you\u0027re right that having the Directorate finally 58 percent is really good but clearly you\u0027re wrong that 58 percent of documents get this far with issues it\u0027s not that because that\u0027s not good I agree that\u0027s not good now we notice that maybe roughly have our early reviews which are reviews that the chairs requests earlier in the process maybe before we can do let\u0027s call or some point now I think another that\u0027s the point you\u0027re trying to make whether I want to make is that we shouldn\u0027t expect external of the working group reviews to find the 60% of the issues the 58 percent that has issues that maybe we need to we should have resolved in the working group before and obviously more stressing is that three percent that is not ready now not all of these drafts are inside the routing area once in a while when there is ITF lascall of documents that are related to the routing area we ask for review of those as well for example recently we went through the exercise of making the ap6 specifications interest and routes and so we asked the director to review those documents because we thought the other related strongly related to the routing area so some of these documents and I we have a breakdown of that or not but some of them that may have had issues we\u0027re not ready fitted adults I think it\u0027s important thing the port where that I want to make is that this is one of the reasons why I have said a couple of times today that it is important that we review we review that we all contribute to the work in the working group I see too many Plus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:52",
    "text": "Ones and too many just yes as you support yes yes yes yes in the working groups and we should be working just because you trust me and you think I did a good job doesn\u0027t mean that I didn\u0027t screw up my draft and in my personal case I mostly do so a please review review the work and I even though the directors doing a great job and again we want to thank everyone for that it is important that we do the reviews inside the working as well so just outs but maybe next time I\u0027ll try to do two pie charts showing the early reviews and last coal reviews because I think maybe you know the combining them might lead you to think that more of the last coal reviews had quality issues and they really did low Anderson I was actually doing the comment on the yes and plus ones but I don\u0027t want to do that I want to say something totally different I don\u0027t know about the rest of you but I need to state how much actually accrete appreciate the improvement of the work in the routing area Directorate over the last year and with the people get getting in and actually taking it seriously and we knew actually now we actually do in good reviews thank you very much thanks yeah so I was just gonna say you already picked up on the two charts but overall mentioned that we also do reviews up outside so if we want to measure ourselves also maybe separate out non routing it\u0027s it\u0027s sort of very very hard to read that non area is the top line on the right-hand chart we did two out of 32 yeah just for that - oh just for that 58 for something right it\u0027s not statistically significant this time to me yeah over a longer period yeah maybe and just come back um I I think it\u0027s a bar so we should really try all to to try to review the documents earlier in the process but I also I don\u0027t see anything wrong with the Directorate reviewer giving a mark that it\u0027s not you know ready has issues because I don\u0027t see these as failing grades I see this as just trying to improve it\u0027s no different than if don\u0027t is G review if you get a discuss when your document don\u0027t take it that you failed or something it\u0027s it\u0027s everything is meant just to improve and there\u0027s nothing wrong so we don\u0027t want that the Directorate now starts giving a plus plus is to everybody when actually just just to make this chart look good yeah I mean the goal is the whole point of having the reviews is constructive criticism and getting them better but I also want to echo Alvarez point the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:53",
    "text": "responsibility for producing quality documents out of the working groups is not the directorate\u0027s what\u0027s not the area directors it\u0027s everybody\u0027s and one of the aspects of going to around Robin is that you\u0027re now dependent on I mean obviously we all have expertise but it kind of expertise in everything and so you know it\u0027s an unfair burden on the area directors and on the Directorate to expect them to be able to do all of the detailed technical quality review that needs to be coming from the working groups and I can tell you that I think our experience of issues when we do AG reviews which is frequently after the writing Directorate or at the same time is probably on the well higher than 50% so we\u0027d really like to see better work and more reviews thank you okay so now we are odd to open like anything you want to discuss please get up to the mic John John Scudder you people who were awake through the whole lightning round I\u0027m sure noticed see talking about in the idea our portion about code-point squatting blah blah blah I had considered asking you for some time during this meeting for no it\u0027s one of these boring but important topics and I didn\u0027t get around to it or preparing any materials but I\u0027d like to suggest that either at a you know one of our periodic chairs virtual meetings or something it might be a worthwhile topic to talk about code point allocation and in particular I\u0027ve been surprised by the number of people especially IETF old-timers who you might say to understand or you might say have different opinions about how the different I Anna allocation policies actually work and I\u0027m concerned that we\u0027re not making enough use of Ayane to do work for us and instead we\u0027re trying to do the work ourselves and we\u0027re not as good at it as they are sure please remind us to revisit the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:54",
    "text": "topic at some of the future chair chats another was the last idea for the ITF before Jeff the representation on considerations around allocation swelling and early years and other things I think he did it here so we\u0027ll but please look at the materials and I think I know John you\u0027re talking about other you know further beyond that the other thing that I want to point out is that whatever the RFC was for IANA considerations was just missed and it is now some other RFC number in the 8000 series most of the work that they did there they try to clarify some of the procedures and allocation policies and other things it might be a good idea to to also talk about that or to get maybe Aiyanna or someone to give us a refresher or or an overview of the changes and things along those lines you know I think that would be great I in particular yeah I remember Jeff talked well but in particular I\u0027m suggesting what what you said which is to focus on the I Anna part of it which I think a lot of us think we know what\u0027s in there until we go and read it and then we\u0027re like oh actually it says something different Rick Taylor just trying to cover a topic that was missed out because the many entry in the wiki was missing since the last meeting we\u0027ve managed to get RFC 81-75 out which is delet which I think has applicability outside of manet if you have interested in BFD or you\u0027re working in a call routing protocol or ITF is is deal app is probably of interest to you when you start to get beyond the fix Network so can I just ask people to have a look at it see whether it\u0027s applicable to some of the corner cases you have with your core working group work I think this is following on from Alvarado\u0027s comment about some of the working groups are doing and producing work has much wider applicability than just their original niche so 81-75 is worth a look thank you Eric for around for a reminder Justin and Stan did a presentation maybe two or three ATMs ago about the work that had been to holiday including including deal up the fact that it could be applicable to other things was the last there was actually a lot of this question in the ASG about that please go find those slides the other thing that we had started a discussion after that presentation with some of the other working groups here for sample role about the fact that there is you know you should bill \u0027ti and then things that we can share just because we\u0027re doing mechanisms that we seem to be targeting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:54",
    "text": "at mobile your ad hoc environments or IOT environments that doesn\u0027t mean that those aren\u0027t applicable to core networks or my sources right some of the methodology and enhancements that we do into core networks could be applicable in other places last Saturday just chilly a story because we have time we spent seven hours and I\u0027m not gonna go through the whole seven hours which for seven hours in a coordination meeting with the I Triple E and one of the topics that we talked about was around multicast and wireless environments and as we were discussing you know one of the things was well we\u0027re not trying to do things like multicast and Pam and it doesn\u0027t work over a 211 really well but during the discussion before some work that had been going on in six low for example you know extending the 6lowpan they were discovery mechanisms it could apply or could solve some of the problems now in general we maybe I don\u0027t know people are thinking about that we see IOT enhancements and maybe we don\u0027t think they they apply to other things I\u0027m not saying those drafts are the solution to every problem with both us in wireless networks but it is something that we need to consider the more we cross pollinate and we talk to each other that we reuse solutions I think probably the better when we can of course so anyone else one of the things that we keep thinking about ourselves and that we were up for a very short discussion at the run director and routing chairs meeting on Monday is where we\u0027re going what\u0027s the future of the routing area or routing in general one of the new things that we see many of the working groups as you saw are making progress most of the work groups all of the work comes from making progress of progress faster or slower some of them we consider that could be to the point where we could even close some of the working groups at some point in the relatively short future so what happens next are we ready for the next revolution of whatever it is is there work that we should be looking in the IETF specifically in the routing area to do and I\u0027m sure the answer is yes more importantly how do we attract that work to come to the ITF is there work that we\u0027re not looking at because it may be to research you because it may be for runners are too big or too small or move too fast or too slow so what we want to we\u0027re know the answers to those questions for us but want to hear from you and more importantly we want to ask "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:55",
    "text": "you to please work towards that as well in other words don\u0027t just tell us oh there\u0027s a new hot technology you should bring it to the ITF you\u0027ll help us do that as well we are only three you are a lot more than three and we can again responsibility is the responsibility of everyone so if anyone has opinions thoughts flames please stand up talk about them send us email later talk amongst yourselves write something down any other option okay thank you Rick Rick Taylor again I\u0027m the chair of delay-tolerant networking which is in transport currently we\u0027re not chartered to do routing because that would probably be a routing area task but we\u0027re we\u0027re out of the IRT F we\u0027re now into the IETF and we\u0027re trying to standardize how do you push packets and data around in deeply disrupted and heavily delayed network so it\u0027s email 2.0 done properly so at a certain point we\u0027re gonna have to solve these routing problems and what kind of transport focused and I\u0027d love to see more guys with the deep routing expertise who are sat in this room or sat in this room\u0027s working groups to come and help us solve these problems again they\u0027re not Charter items yet but at a certain point we\u0027re gonna finish our current set of documents and we\u0027re going to read charter and routing is gonna be there so we would like to kind of engage with you guys sooner rather than later can I suggest thank you for its the suggestion can I suggest talking to Chris Powers and Jeff tensor of the chairs for our GWG this sounds like it would be a really excellent discussion for that working group to bring in and educate folks on what that problem space is so at least people start thinking about it know to pay attention sure I mean my transport a teammate might tell me off because we\u0027re not chartered to do that work yet but it\u0027s coming so rtw G\u0027s chartered to do discuss new work where we\u0027re not sure where it belongs yet so it seems like a really perfect fit perfect so that that reminded me of something else there\u0027s this other working group called a IP wave which is called vehicle to vehicle communication or something like that and they have been working right now on just running IP over you know 2:11 LCP yes during their original charter discussion they had routing items in there not only because right now they\u0027re working on how do we connect the car to the infrastructure pretty much and how to our IP over that there to peace but in the future you want to probably communicate between the cars or between the car and someone else and you are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:55",
    "text": "gonna need some type of routing stuff in there so the worker you that whoop is not charter to do that but we also know that at some point the the the need for the work will happen most likely we might not charter that working group to do that but we will need a place to discuss and do it so if you have time go to the TN go to IP waves start looking at those problems because they could come so it\u0027s personal view so we know the proximity of our cloud placement stuff is coming to us VM containers getting out of data center being placed somewhere else and it\u0027s important to know how do we get the cost of getting there how do we do this in loop free manner and regular routing stuff so there\u0027s some very early stuff in tears but it was a lot of us and it\u0027s humming so it\u0027s quite interesting work fortunately unfortunately we need to work with Etsy and this because those are the ones who define our destruction layer works but it\u0027s interesting work I think we should take it another reminder to me already said the running area working group is chartered to take on any discussion of potential future work in the Charter the main part of the Charter who talks about how the earlier group conservatives a mini bomb type place right where we can go discuss things that maybe is not mature enough for an actual bomb there are things that the ing for example has been making statements over the last years has been around then we can accelerate work you we don\u0027t need to go to two Bob\u0027s and one not working non-working reforming one and then something else and then whatever and then figure out a bunch of other documents before we can actually start work if work is well defined well understood and more importantly not only something that is interesting for the ATF but something that people are going to actually work on then you can see you about them and something about it if it\u0027s my idea as much as it would be a great idea but it\u0027s only me who\u0027s interested in it then it\u0027s probably not something that we\u0027re going to want to work on so you\u0027re part of this also socializing the potential work that we would want to do so that we get some some support behind us and some you know people work to actually write and again review documents any other thoughts ideas then I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "yes we\u0027re gonna leave you the remaining 45 minutes to go brainstorm this topic and talk about ourselves in case you need the coffee there\u0027s a little common placement across the streets as well and just reminder we only have one boss this time right you know we really really are open and interested in bringing in new work and other communities and we need your help to do that thank you you could go or you can sit here that doesn\u0027t matter to me unfortunately that Bach was cross schedule against yang I\u0027ve not been feeling good you "
  }
]