[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "yes yes very bizarre what yeah we are sharing especially with that okay nobody in there yeah yes and we\u0027re done there\u0027s not gonna be anybody well that is a good question all right I don\u0027t understand any of these things I just show up and all right those be following along at home my co-chairs busy discussing business for a different working group I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m just I\u0027m just making fun of you yeah but we will be getting started in just a moment it is time I have one minute fast starting time truly beer beer is a good excuse all right um well while we\u0027re here let\u0027s flick to the note well which everyone can read upside down of course and I\u0027m sure you all know it well by now welcome to the jam obsession we have six remote people and looks like around about 9:00 in the room which is higher than average you probably should there you go you\u0027re welcome Willa we\u0027re in the northern hemisphere now yeah yes wow I hear a test spree awful but it doesn\u0027t taste as good as the best Shan mocktail beer that I just have see this is gonna be a great session welcome everybody blue sheets are making their way around we have a rough agenda 15 minutes on gem EPCOR 50 minutes on gem atmail 20 minutes to talk about extensions and ten minutes for any other business this is obviously fairly rough and we\u0027ll see how we go with that yes but let\u0027s get started with core and we have Neil is somewhat awake so if you feel like speaking to any of this Neil put your put your virtual hand up and I\u0027ll pop you up there so the main question for today is do we need a registry of arrow types there\u0027s lots of info there on the slides Aleksei is going to mrs. tangle there we go this is Barry has participant my general "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:18",
    "text": "view of these is that we create the registries when we decide we need them and if we don\u0027t think we need them now we can defer the creation to later do we have information about whether this is likely to be extended whether Gemma flux if they extend it very much likely to be whether new era types will be defined that would only be defined within the documents that okay well so if looking at IMAP response codes we know that these are you know turned out to be way more extensible than we originally thought yeah my my recommend a don\u0027t have a strong opinion here but my preference would be just to to make this orig into the registry who think it\u0027s going to be extensible all right so I guess the question there like see it should we do it right now or should we do it when we when we start extending as there any strong reasons one or the other would you like some text on this yeah I think it\u0027s it\u0027s half a page of text I don\u0027t think this is going to be a particularly difficult we we have plenty of examples of similar time for information so what Chris do you think we should have a registry for arrow types in J map Chris Newman I I I\u0027m willing to write the text to create one if if the group feels it\u0027s it\u0027s necessary I don\u0027t feel it\u0027s necessary at this point all right so this is Barry I\u0027ll repeat that I think we should just defer it until we have an extension and then have the extension define registry yeah this reminds me of something else partially related at least early version of the document had lots of arrow types defined for different methods and it was very hard to review and figure out whether there was supposed to be the same and just some didn\u0027t apply to some of the methods or whether it was a single set having a single register would help but I know it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s sort of one a particular thing of trying to review and maybe implement and figure out what applies not all right we\u0027ve got Neil here at Neil GE he\u0027ll go you should be up for now and I think Neil note that didn\u0027t know they were going now you are yeah let\u0027s see the we\u0027ve though I\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:22",
    "text": "redone in the spectrum I think you look then because they they are an owl together in the speckles like these are the standard errors that return to any of the method it\u0027s only if there\u0027s one that\u0027s a specific to a particular method is that just with that method so they are already grouped together I think you expect my feeling is it seems to most people don\u0027t seem to think we need one of this stage as a registry and based on our lack of experience we think we have a fairly good idea of what class of errors we\u0027re going to get and so we have those covered it\u0027s unlikely that we\u0027re going to get completely new new ones up here but if we do then create an extension and locate registry this summary that\u0027s said to be it\u0027s dead they\u0027re together in the document more easily findable now and neal recommends that we add a registry when we need it rather than straightaway as well to fertile later all right um just does can anyone not live with deferring okay then elect Alexie\u0027s right on the edge all right I reserved the rough two to say I told you so but that\u0027s fine all right I\u0027m okay with that moving on to the next thing push subscriptions yep we do have sorry I lost track of the Java room for a moment but Dave Crocker in the Java room says registry is infrastructure get it working now to avoid the transition effort later a section of the RFC means as though then there\u0027s some discussion about that but yeah Jeff PC says same sort of thing can be accomplished by having a section in the RFC listing all error types and they\u0027ve says a section in the RFC means that adding a value requires reissuing the RFC so dave is in favor of doing the registry now rather than later but but Dave can you do you want to die on that hill or can you live with deferring oh great why don\u0027t why don\u0027t I resolve this I\u0027ll just I\u0027ll just write the text if I get it in in time then we\u0027re good all right so Chris is going to write the registry of errors text thanks Chris excellent thank you all right now moving on to proof subscriptions so this is the Neil\u0027s text from the slide there they\u0027ve been quite a few changes and the remaining question care for that is should we add the ability to request pushes only if there are particular states of Records and this is things like if a unseen message arrives in mailbox pushing then but maybe not pushing if something gets moved between folders not not seeing any huge amount "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:29",
    "text": "of people jumping up to the microphone over this thanks Alexi I don\u0027t know my coworker just asked for something very similar for our implementation it\u0027s like yeah I just fail to be excited one way or the other but you know so is are you asking about suppressing or is you know they want to have more information in notifications tool as the consumer decide generally suppressing the push subscription that pushes a common case that we run into is where you have an alerts folder that\u0027s receiving an email every 30 seconds all day and you don\u0027t want your phone to wake up for that just to say there\u0027s nothing\u0027s changed in the Inbox right I guess the idea would be that you tell it what pushes you want and it doesn\u0027t send you the others all right all right you know I just wanted it yeah well I think generally you know please speak slowly because your voice is very money okay sorry at the moment you can register for which types he care about so if there was an extension that had calendars as well and you\u0027re only making a male clients you don\u0027t need to receive pushes or calendar types but yes you would receive at a time that any change to they any email and could be a lot of changes haha not what the app is doing if the if seeing the out of my hand pushes is notification impossible Ron said and I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s a situation where the device might start people making make too much as well because they\u0027re fucking happy and restrictions on how much he weighs you up in the background Wow but it could be pretty expensive because it you have to the server would have to look at all of the changes the valuation I gave over and then whether that will wear whether pretend push hold on so I think it would probably have to be optional an optional duck I wave little pain yeah this night might be a good idea of an extension especially if you have some kind of filter language for invoking notifications that one day good extension yeah I think the the idea that they would we use the same syntax "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:30",
    "text": "with you filtering when doing a query but yeah maybe leave it out and having their quenching Polly so it\u0027s not piled if you thought it so the summarized here the suggestion is that we have a push built-in that pushes everything and an extension that then allows you to specify a new type of push which is a filtered push that only pushes some things that sounds like a good good proposal keeps this one simple alright next we have explicit query totals this is my one I sent it to the mailing list just recently last week basic philosophical argument here is that the service shouldn\u0027t do any work that the client doesn\u0027t need things like the recent flag and the unseen on selecting IMAP are examples of things that this server is required to do even though the client might not care and that require additional code complexity additional work on the server and so the next part of that is that the client should explicitly ask for the things that it needs rather than either having the server do speculative work by default or not even having a way to turn it off as is a case we\u0027ve run into at Cal dev where if you\u0027re using the CalDAV protocol to restore restore things from back up onto your server it will send out scheduling messages and you can\u0027t even tell it not to because the protocol has an implied behavior that you can\u0027t turn off the disadvantage of course of making totals optional is that it\u0027s added complexity for because there are multiple different cases and it\u0027s added complexity per client authors that need to explicitly ask for the totals if they want them so there\u0027s been some discussion about this already and a fairly split set of opinions on it because they\u0027re strong arguments in favor of both any thoughts on this or exceed with my clients implement a hat on I think we we shouldn\u0027t yeah we should just make it make the client requested don\u0027t make this overdo it we unseen is a very good example in a map where some clients do care and most clients don\u0027t care and all the time the you know the clients that don\u0027t care probably has increased so it\u0027s sort of hard to take take this stuff out no yes sir my client author hat on ah I will be fine dealing with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:30",
    "text": "complexity I\u0027m gonna get a big performant win from the server it\u0027s much faster it seems I think so I think it really is a question of do we have either any data or at least knowledge based on plantations that it\u0027s gonna be a lot we don\u0027t require if I\u0027m not quite okay Chris Chris Newman now I\u0027ve had time to sleep on this issue properly I think the proposal I\u0027d make is we go with the client has to ask for it but we also have a line that says servers are strongly encouraged to implement an efficient way to compute this if possible that sounds like a reasonable approach yeah can anyone not live with that all right and well we\u0027ve got Neil again I don\u0027t I haven\u0027t dismissed United States are yeah I with that I just wanted to ask if anyone add one of my suggestions mostly here is the very two months yeah Neal if you can switch your video off that might help that better oh that\u0027s hugely better I just wanted to yes normally mr. Cole not the crafted he could just end it because okay try just typing in jabbering okay sorry about that yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s blam Telstra in general former British colonies yeah all Zakes it so Neil says if the server just has the data available I suggested on the list just return it so I the I have the issue I have with that is then them were inconsistent that I would rather have predictable results that when you ask for something you get a certain thing and when you don\u0027t ask for it you get a certain thing yeah Chris Newman my yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:31",
    "text": "my problem with that is I have seen way too many implementation by testing against one server and if it works against that server assume it again works with all the others yeah and that that\u0027s just too common so I I I couldn\u0027t I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a good choice yeah it\u0027s comparative thing with is list special use you know I\u0027m at a lot of servers will return the special use now whether requested or not and there are clients out there that assume that behavior and break if you don\u0027t return the special use data even if it wasn\u0027t requested right yes it\u0027s a real thing so Neil je has said that\u0027s fair okay I retract that suggestion and Neil JH says as a client author I have no problem with requiring a flag I know computing the cow I know computing that count can be expensive it\u0027s been expensive to do so locally in clients I\u0027ve worked done yeah this this is particularly interesting if we then had an extension that allowed you to have a best-effort sort rather than an exact sort where you could say just go find me 30 matches now and give me them with a state string that lets me know what I\u0027ve already returned so that I can I can then return the next page and so on and this is the best effort match search engine type of case where there\u0027s a pool of messages of unknown size I can see a map being useful for this kind of thing if you don\u0027t have to calculate the totals but if you do have to calculate the totals that suddenly becomes very difficult to to know exactly what may or may not match in your pool of messages all right so it looks like we\u0027ve come to a conclusion that having the client explicitly asked for the total if at once it is reasonable but giving the total if you haven\u0027t been asked for it is then not good cool let\u0027s move on to the last core page yep from driver Stuart Brandt says is there a constraint to what counts the server should have available a search slash count opens the door to arbitrary counts which can be tough for a server is exactly the same in J map where you do a query with a filter obviously a filter of in mailbox you might have an efficient count for but in mailbox and matches from Bari is probably less likely to have a pre calculated count up front though a server that was clever enough to cache common queries might say well I\u0027ve been asked for how many messages of the head from Bari every five minutes for the last 24 hours maybe I\u0027ll preemptively keep that cash up to date for a while obviously you should always keep the count of messages from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:32",
    "text": "Bari yeah all right so last call do we think we are ready to proceed towards there soon we have just this couple of outstanding issues which we\u0027ve I think agreed a path forward for all of them is there anything else that that people see blocking us from going to last call one group last call the correct answer to that question is no of course well the correct answer is no if you don\u0027t see anything that\u0027s not I\u0027m not seeing a vast number of people jumping up so we will proceed to work in group last call once we\u0027ve integrated these changes then yeah alright next J map male there are three items in here starting with the email groups this discussion has been happening on the mailing list this is an example of how it looks latest conclusion from the mailing list seems to be that we do need to support email groups and the question is whether this is the correct way to do it it\u0027s basically either this or a two-level system which some of the libraries that use they they group it into either the unnamed set or named group sets Alex here I think this is quite similar to what IMAP is doing right in in body structure it has it used nails for various special purposes so I know I mean I wouldn\u0027t quite call it a hack but I think that\u0027s reasonable all right good we\u0027re happy then that\u0027s done things to take to be extensions and we\u0027ve added a new thing to that which is the filtered push a vacation response will be separated out from the main email of men men mail spec into a separate extension and search within attachments was optional so moving that into an extension can you remind me I think you know initially there was a big part of the discussion about why you really wanted vacation and there and why are you moving it out I just I don\u0027t mind either way I just want to know whether somewhere somebody asked that for it to be removed or just to reply to Jeff on Java for a second here back on the previous thing which was wouldn\u0027t name of the group and then email and a list of emails work the problem there is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "the individual emails also have a name associated with them so you\u0027ve wound up that that\u0027s basically the two level hash or two level array where you have an array of group name to address as the address specs that are associated with it which is another way to do things but it makes it more complex in the basic case where you would then have a top-level no name I oh he\u0027s saying yeah see ignore it\u0027s all a hack cool vacation response Neil j.a did you have a response to that why why the main reason we wanted upfront I believe was that various client and server authors thought it would be a good hook to convince him management to to build a protocol that had a standard way of setting vacation responses but if we have this at the same time as a common extension then it\u0027s still quite easy to add to both clients and servers as a reason to use jam app though on the next page we\u0027re going to be talking about full sieve which is making sure that you can do full server and vacation without them stomping on each other will be an interesting question for those of you who couldn\u0027t see it that was elección mm okay this is very my general view is that if we expect a an extension to be sufficiently commonly supported we should include it in the base Chris yeah Chris Newman I would have a slight preference for just adding a capability name for vacation but leaving it in the base spec on this then you end up with an example of an extension in the base spec however yo we definitely do want to make sure we\u0027ve got the sieve interaction sorted yes mm-hmm I will say our server supports full sieve and has a legacy vacation mechanism and you know we\u0027ve worked out making that work together so it\u0027s a solvable problem all right so I guess the decision point here is are we happy with pulling these things out and making them extensions rather than require and stay in the base spec well I think we actually were leading the other way on vacation and saying that we would like to put it in the base spec as an optional feature so that we have the extra capability the extension mechanism and one example of it in the base spec but it\u0027s clearly labeled as as an yep that\u0027s what as an optional feature what Neil said on Jeffers or alright and Neil you\u0027re happy with with doing that yep he thinks that\u0027s fine yes cool in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:36",
    "text": "that case are we close enough to say we\u0027re going to go to last call for male as well one more rare than one yeah one one more rev that takes this feedback into place I\u0027m seeing some nodding and nobody jumping up to say otherwise fantastic there the blue sheets floated around somewhere if you want alright moving on to j MF extensions and we\u0027re pretty much exactly on time here we\u0027re half an hour into the session and we\u0027re half an hour through our time so they are doing a fantastic job here lovely and here\u0027s the first question do we need to update the Charter our deliverables at the moment are just core and male plus supporting documents and tools but they don\u0027t explicitly call-out extensions as something that\u0027s in charter for this group we\u0027d planned to reach other for calendar and contacts but maybe just updating the Charter to say extensions to jameth or in scope will give us yeah I would be happy to see a charter that said we\u0027re doing calendar contacts and other general extensions as accepted by the working group if yeah I think rebooting going into bike shed now because I\u0027m sure I you both have opinion one way or other right no quite yet which ways riders can can we manage a general extensions charter or are we going to have to be specific about which extensions we want it I think opinions differ you know some people don\u0027t like already open and the charters another I mean it sort of depends whether you have a list of specific extensions you already know about and if you can put them as in the chatter saying you know we are going to work on this first and then we might recharter or you know you can take others once you\u0027re done with this that might be more agreeable well we certainly have at least two yeah as a general comment I think recharging is not going to be a problem just my gut feel all right so the next step here then is to propose updated charter watering updated charter wording cool I will do that next Ken it gave me like 50 slides so you got five minute drill pink box I saw the the genesis of this was a colleague had asked about J map over WebSockets and I happened to be playing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:36",
    "text": "with WebSockets for something something else so I hacked up some codes in the cyrus jameth implementation and brought up a 0-0 draft to document what I did and Alexei found it interesting so here we are oh sorry hey you got a clicker there you go yeah so this pretty much a straightforward sub protocol and WebSockets akin to what XMPP does I set up so it only does API requests uploads and downloads still use their own separate URL and all the messages going back and forth over the web sockets are JSON only and that everything fit in the slide sorry one of the benefits were two main benefits that we found with this one one of which is you get bi-directional compression using the WebSocket compression extension we\u0027re currently with with J map I don\u0027t believe there\u0027s any browsers that compress request bodies if there are please let me know it\u0027s also a little bit less lower overhead because you don\u0027t have every single API request being authenticated fine occation is done upfront one time as part of the WebSocket handshake and using the standard handshake mechanisms for HTTP 1 and H would be - which I believe this is currently the RFC editor queue discovery very simple bed of a WS URL property to the session object at this point I didn\u0027t have any other parameters or limits that had that went along with this but I suppose if there were we could create a new capability object for WebSockets if we found the need sample discovery you know hit the endpoint and there\u0027s the URL that you want to use example handshake for those that maybe haven\u0027t seen how this works uses the HTTP one upgrade mechanism there\u0027s a specific web socket headers sub protocol game app and in this particular case it\u0027s trying to negotiate compression and comes back with the 101 and you\u0027re ready to ready the rock and roll at that point similar for HTTP - it uses a modified Connect method which is signified or signaled by that\u0027s a particular bit in the settings frame there\u0027s a connect the big big difference with using WebSockets hb2 was there\u0027s never a at the end of each request there\u0027s no end and there\u0027s no end stream until we actually close to one second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "okay couple issues that I\u0027ve run across as I was implementing this because everything is JSON you can\u0027t have the typical HTTP response line this the status line come back so any top-level errors related to bad JSON or what-have-you needs to be in a JSON proble problem details object which I think neil has recently added to his spec one question I had was do we need to have a way to signal to the client what object is being returned whether it\u0027s an actual response object or a problem details object my initial thought was the client probably could just figure it out based on context of what\u0027s in there but that\u0027s that\u0027s an open-ended question this first point here was something Neil brought up yeah I currently have this implemented where everything is processed in order just like you would with number J map if you move this for what we want to have out of order processing and if so we obviously need a way to indicate which response has been sent back simple ID property in the response in the request same response we\u0027ll do that and the other issue would would be because this this connection is open all the time should we allow push notifications to come down again similar question with this will you need to have some way of indicating what type of object we\u0027ve sent down the socket that\u0027s pretty much it make questions comments Lexi just something with the working group we want to take out as work see useful is it garbage sounds like a good thing to put it in reach chartering yeah out of great there\u0027s one question that came up for me here which was the ws URL property on the gem obsession object are we allowing extensions to put things in there because they haven\u0027t yet been requested by using so if we add anything other than underneath the the key for the extension I if I\u0027m not mistaken core says that there may be other properties in the session object from the client should ignore ignore it say if it doesn\u0027t recognize okay but good because the other possibility we put them under capable under the capabilities Kay for that yeah capability and for the wher like that I\u0027ve gone back and forth as whether or not the URL should just be within website capability yeah the argument for that certainly is that then it\u0027s quite clear what it belongs to and it means there\u0027s no namespace collision issues if someone else to find some something else that had a WS prefix and decided WS URL was a good name the Korean issue Chris Chris yeah I\u0027d "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "prefer it to be under the under the X in the extension part of the tree I I know it\u0027s a little bit more annoying to parse if SEO it\u0027s an extra layer but the advantage if you get the registry at Vantage of there\u0027s already a registry and we\u0027ve got the container to put any other limits or parameters anything else who would be interested in implementing this you got a couple of hands in the room would pass mail be interested that is so we have fast mail and I sewed yeah I guess that\u0027s enough to start cool all right thank you hi Cal can Napa\u0027s seen Yale a puppy a blue has anyone not signed the blue sheet the usual suspect all right a vacation response we now have an answer for that so it can skip straight through edits in a more general allowing you to manage the full sieve on the server if you if we\u0027re going to support seems then we want a way to manage sip via J map rather than having to call out to the Mensa protocol which is awful and horrible um I have been tempted to put managed sieve support in IMAP day many times with a just create an IMAP command to allow people to push their subscribe and having to authenticate separately and do all this anyway would there be interest in having ability to mention Civ via J map I\u0027ve seen ya dementia SIV extension for Gemma it means we can use all the existing things alright does somebody want to write this thank you yes yeah so yeah it definitely interests me because you know we implemented Bandar civet it\u0027s horrible and I\u0027m not sure anybody anybody uses it I guess is argumentation of Madison so that\u0027s kind of annoying when you implement a protocol I know it uses it but that raises the question of I\u0027m dubious I I\u0027m not sure I\u0027ve seen you know sieve editing interfaces that deployed successfully period you know i-i\u0027ve seen Civ fused a whole lot on the server side I\u0027ve not seen a lot of client-side sieve but how are the server side subscribes created text editors not by my mother in the words "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:38",
    "text": "exactly typically there are simple generators that are just a set of rules set of tests and set of actions which can generate subsets of all save squares but they cannot edit ken Murchison so Chris\u0027s question got me somewhat confused when you say edits if we\u0027re actually talking about a way to interact and a way to script where we just talked about pushing and pulling full scripts right well we\u0027re not talking about the user interface for editing the script but we\u0027re talking about a way to take edited scripts and send them to much looser so it is managed to over Jim essentially what they what we\u0027ve been discussing so far says that nobody does that they just use some sort of UI that creates a script so they take the real question I think I guess the first thing is there seems to be enough interest in this that we should add it to our each other as a thing we would like to investigate and produce I don\u0027t think we need to add that to the recharter I think what we need to do is discuss it further to decide whether we want to include it in the rechart yeah if the working group does decide this is worth doing and my boss is going to give me some time I\u0027d volunteer to write this up thank you can so ask your coach Eric once will give me some time to Ned Ned comments that systems that support both sip editing are rare I would say extremely rare to the point of being bleeding the vast mouth system it has a powerful rule builder that lets you do sets of rules in particular places and then you can go to the advanced screen and it it has the spots where your rules will get filled into the final subscript and you can inject arbitrary civ between each section so you can add your custom sections as well obviously compile tests that before letting you save it then Raphael was honest as SIF handling even partially would be great and Raphael I\u0027d ask you to expand on that because that\u0027s too vague for us to really know what you\u0027re getting at all right here comes Raphael yeah thank you so my point is that 17 would be a very good customer feature but I think it\u0027s pretty complex to add the full feature set down and and to have a nice interface to show to through the rules so might be just a subset of what the sieves "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:38",
    "text": "such as what is doing a run cube for example on sieve we\u0027ve just simple rules with one condition and one Hashanah can be sufficient and and a good trick to account okay well I mean that\u0027s what we\u0027ve basically been talking about that there\u0027s a lot of very specific usage of being able to use a UI to select certain options but there\u0027s very little general take a sip script and and move it around and manage it and let people create arbitrary subscripts are you saying that the former is okay or do you are you saying you need the general management of subscripts no I think I agree general is too complicated just as I simplified versions would be good great thank you okay so we will keep discussing this one on the mailing list we don\u0027t we don\u0027t have a conclusion that\u0027s close enough to say take any particular path at this point so we\u0027ll punt punt on this one for now generating mdn message delivery notifications is this something that there are people interested in implementing so this will be extension to message submission by specifying few bits and just sort of that how to generate ambience for you from I believe so yes Raphael says we are yes we after all right yes I suppose a microphone so yeah we already implement in the destruction of at this time that was the said messages to other to be able to send them Vienna so I think we\u0027ll be interested in in generating Indiana and the why not do an extortion for that yes all right and I\u0027m sure we would implement it now servers well who wants to write it up that\u0027s for volunteers oh yes that sounds rittle okay it sounds like something we will go ahead with single HTML body we discussed this one in London haven\u0027t done anything with it since but the general concept was if you have a dumb client that just renders HTML and that\u0027s all then if you throw it HTML that has CID links in it it needs some way to resolve them and and fetch the data so it\u0027s going to have to understand blob IDs and understand quite a lot of gel map do we want to have a way of asking the server to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:39",
    "text": "generate you an HTML body that self-contained contains either HTTP leaves that will fetch that have all the authentication and then we\u0027ll fetch that blob from the server somehow or even just encoder this dot-eu our eyes directly into the HTML block here render this thing in an iframe or a div and it will show you the message as it\u0027s meant to be presented that\u0027s a read-only property on a message that could be quite useful for dumb clients that don\u0027t want to be a full game out client they just want a way to get some data and just layer the hard bit here is going to be specifying how to generate this piece of HTML and any security considerations for it because when you\u0027re putting some arbitrary blobs together from the server and make nice English I make sure you work with FAL correctly you know Jenkins says wary of building something we think might be useful without anyone that actually wants it I Chris Newman just wondering if if that if anybody had standardized web I\u0027m not enough in the web community know the answer this question but if anybody it\u0027s standardized on a web archive file format because I know a lot of browsers offer a save it saved as web archive so you get the whole picture with images and everything in one blob and what I\u0027ve generally seen is you save the webpage and zip it mmm so Neil Jenkins says that generally generally generates a full room zipped folder of reference files rather than something that you can just render directly Jeff says if I remember correctly there was someone in dispatch one or two meetings ago with that proposal you know Alexei says signed archive signed packages alright so it feels like the conclusion on this is keep a record of the suggestion somewhere but no we don\u0027t need this just yet because there\u0027s nobody clamoring for it and time check we have roughly 10 minutes which is good because we\u0027re nearly at any other business search inside attachments this was originally in scope for the domain males Beckham has been separated out I don\u0027t know how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:41",
    "text": "much is needed on this whether we already have text on it but who wants to take this Neil J he didn\u0027t seem too keen to do it the only thing I want to ask about this is what does attachments mean in this context I guess yeah I mean we all kind of vaguely know what we\u0027re talking about if I have a text message with a PowerPoint attachment do I search the PowerPoint but let\u0027s you know in more cases if I have a multi-part message with multiple text parts how many of them are attachments how many of them are not what\u0027s the scope of this what happens if it\u0027s multi-part alternative is there a difference in how it\u0027s searched and so on Chris okay so two issues with this the first one I see I submitted a change that got a got accepted to the way the but to the wording for the body search it actually makes J Maps body search work a little bit more like I maps because I map has this text which says it it says serve it says the the message the body of the message contains this text and it also says servers aren\u0027t required to read to return matches for non-text body parts that\u0027s what that\u0027s what the I\u0027ve aspect says there are IMAP implementations that do return matches for non-text body parts right and there are plenty of line that invitations that do send so so we changed the base spec so now J mat body search is follows that model so you you don\u0027t have to return matches and attachments but you can so I liked the approach that we don\u0027t call it attachments that we call it non text body parts and that makes it a little clearer while talking right yeah but that yeah that\u0027s the way it\u0027s worded now in the base back after that suggestion landed which if anybody objects to they should speak up bronze so here\u0027s a question related to that and how I\u0027m at was implemented in IMAP the IMAX IMAP spec clearly says that you\u0027re the search string is just it\u0027s a substring match right we do not want to say substring that was a designer and IMAP and a lot of implementations ignore that excellent yes as I think we say that how the match is done is implementation dependent and that\u0027s the way it yes that that is that is where we must deviate from IMAP because I map clearly got it rock well alright so this becomes search for non-text body parts inside no search inside a non text body parts and we\u0027ll take it to the list for volunteers to write this up yeah the I mean I kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:43",
    "text": "suggest that this isn\u0027t actually needed anymore with that change the base back I kind of agree with that is do we really think a client would explicitly ask or not ask for this kind of search any but now it just asks Chris I I will give you a little a little piece of information we a male user interface that used a proprietary channel to do search in attachments and present thumbnails of the attachments that match and the marketing people in at the time really liked that UI and as far as we can tell no customers care about it so our implementation experiences this isn\u0027t needed but there but it was implemented once so so what do you think about some text in there that says simply that searching non text body parts may be expensive and it\u0027s up to the server whether to to do that extra searching or not well the other way to do it would be to just have a capability in the base back that says by the way this server searches non text attachments kneel comments the only thing that might be interesting is being able to get which mind parts were matched on the search right and then aquas answered that so okay all right good any other business and so if there\u0027s no other other business we thought we would go back to the previous conversation about the null termination crap stuff thing a Pete you want to pipe up Neil you want to pipe up one of you beats sitting there in the corner saying now I\u0027ll leave me out of this Dave Crocker says on the previous issue the discussion is assuming that users will know what non-text means they won\u0027t PowerPoint is texts in their minds I suspect yeah yeah I mean he\u0027s right about that and the the question is what users expect when they do a search so read well while the text I that\u0027s in the spec now says text slash star and message slash star but you know yeah Dave body types other than text slash wait is that that doesn\u0027t really answer the question because it\u0027s a question of what users expect yeah well like I say search for Dave Crocker in my messages and I have in there a PowerPoint that mentions Dave Crocker or a PDF that was written by Dave Proctor I would want that to match as a user and it\u0027s not a question of how you tell it to the geeks it\u0027s a question right and our IMAP server can be configured in multiple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:44",
    "text": "ways to return that yeah so it may be that the right answer is just have a discussion about this in the text and let servers decide what they can afford to do based on the expensive a search so just to reply to to Dave\u0027s thing there about users the users probably wouldn\u0027t be presented with IETF you are in params right supports supports attachment search they would get something that tells them this server is only capable of searching some parts of the message or the server is capable of searching all parts of the message because unless we require every server to support decoding images and finding and doing text matches on them but there is a difference between supporting matching text parts support not supporting searching images and videos but in middle supporting things that users think of as texts that are not technically text like Word documents and PowerPoint documents they probably think a PDF scan of of a piece of paper Thanks it\u0027s not text in it but unless you service can OCR it exactly and yes its users don\u0027t know that yeah this is Jim pen I I don\u0027t think we can satisfy user expectations there because I mean the file could be a zipped PDF and you know what compression formats are you supporting all those things I don\u0027t think it\u0027s possible or reasonable for the J map server to understand all of the different ways these things could be expressed so I I don\u0027t think I mean I I think it\u0027s a great aspiration that Dave the Dave Express is there to try and satisfy user expectations but I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s possible to do well so that\u0027s why I think the right answer is to have a discussion of this in the document and then let\u0027s service figure out what they\u0027re going to do because there\u0027s really no way you\u0027re going to convey to the user what\u0027s going to happen the user is just going to be happy with or surprised with the search results as always yes so do we actually want to discuss that other issue Neal he who else was commenting Jeff I think was in there he is getting up to the mic yeah who Pete doesn\u0027t have to implement this crap and you know so yeah I mean I showed what I think is legit j-jason syntax and if that\u0027s gonna be a complete pain in the rear for someone to implement or for most people to implement then okay hack away it just it the hack looks like the potential for real implementation bugs it just it it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:45",
    "text": "just feels that way so as having a look at that the suggestion basically is if there\u0027s no group then it\u0027s just an address and if there is a group then it has different keys inside the object and that key is a group that then has a list of addresses inside it which is very much a direct mapping of how it looks in the text the downside there is that you need to be able to both go through the top-level keys and inspect inside groups to find things that have email addresses on them if you\u0027re searching through for a list of email addresses Rick is right the yes right so I look at what we have right now and it does look as someone said like a hack and it\u0027s clearly one that works and it\u0027s one that we\u0027re kind of used to I wonder and I don\u0027t want to get too far into like specific alternatives but isn\u0027t a very simple way to solve this problem to have a list of objects every object has a name and email address so it\u0027s like a normal address and if it\u0027s in a group you give it an additional key of group name so you have a run of seven addresses in the first three are a group they all have the same group name and then the next one doesn\u0027t you\u0027ve left the group like there there is a small anomaly problem where you could have some from out of order or you could you know do goopy things but I think it\u0027s much less of a hack and if you don\u0027t know about groups in your client you\u0027ve just flattened them and probably no harm done so this this came up on the mailing list the case where you have two groups with the same name that in direct succession you can\u0027t tell where the boundary between those two same groups yes I\u0027m gonna have to cut the discussion off because there\u0027s actually no transition time between this session and the one next door that\u0027s sharing so we we have to cut it off and move next door or go elsewhere if you\u0027re singing I\u0027m sorry about that we should continue this on the list all right thank you everybody that\u0027s that\u0027s a lots of discussions follow "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:37",
    "text": "you "
  }
]