[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "those people continue to filter in now we just once again put out the ask for a minutes taker um oh you're free to volunteer yourself yes martin i think lucas and uh i think he's gonna do that so oh thank you lucas saves us some time some precious time since we have a packed agenda not really i'll give it another minute and get started all right good day everyone um welcome to tsv area i hope we all remembered our pitchforks uh thank you to lucas for taking the minutes today uh this is the notewell you've seen this probably about eight times already this week and many many times before it if you have any questions about it just please type it into your favorite search engine basically you know this covers uh some behavioral rules and um uh some so just how to handle intellectual property at ietf um i think in other working groups uh there's been a bit of an emphasis on the code of conduct this this cycle um we're really asking this is not usually a problem in tsp area but uh in at least this meeting but um you know just treat each other respect please and uh you know if if we find"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "advan examples of of unprofessional behavior as as leaders we will try to call that out and establish that is not the norm on how we want to do things i don't anticipate that being a problem in this group but just uh you know something we're sharing across the board so this is the agenda we we're going to have a talk but it fell through at kind of the last minute so um you are likely to get out of here early and i encourage you going to gather and mingle after this um we're just going to run through the regular uh review of what the what the area did we'll open up for open mic so this should be a quick one um we're not gonna have a jab rescribe because i think uh zahed and i can probably manage looking at jabra as much as needed all right here we go is there would anyone like to bash the agenda okay all right here's what's going on um in working groups uh i think that the three interest main things are um ian sweat is stepping down from ippm and marcus ilar has already joined um and he will uh start this week thank you marcus for volunteering and thank you ian for your contribution to the working group um similarly uh tram um is well my intention as i announced on the list is to shut down tram um there's one document remaining uh which is uh kind of in deep freeze right now frankly uh and nothing has happened as we're good for a while so uh the draft has expired so it's sort of nowhere right now but should the work to do pmtud and tram resume uh that work will occur in the tsvwg working group and tsvwg will have custody of all the tram rfcs so um like i said i've announced this on the relevant lists uh if you have any problems uh please raise them at open mic i plan to push the button immediately after this meeting and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "formally close it uh otherwise you can read what's going on alto's starting its new charter immediately after this in session three um the charter's done and we're going to launch its new work um and other than that drafts is just sort of progressing um i don't know but there's much else to say i will say this is of general interest to in my working groups at least the one thing that might be of general interest to the transport community is kind of the core tcp stuff is moving is beginning best in tcpm like 793 is almost at the finish line cubic is is in work group last call um and i'm very much looking forward to uh having a more modern connection control formally standardized and then um there are a number of reasons that we're looking to bust 5681 which is kind of the core loss recovery and um document for tcp and uh we're looking for authors at this time so if this is interesting to you um please contact the tcpm chairs um so i had do you want to highlight anything in your working groups yes let's do that uh so well i'll just run down the the list here um so dtn working group there we're doing some recharging we have been putting up a new charter for isb internal review when there were some blocks and now we work through that with those things i think the blocks were just lift off so um it will progress then or next phase and the focus of this returning is more like doing some ops and management work and addressing work along with the transport related issues that they have been doing i mean this is an interesting time for dtn because people are deploying and then we're getting lots of um input how it works and if it's before i think business as usual mostly working on the security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "document so far um and also this rdm and version 2 documents quick i think uh just came from a lot of us came from quick working groups so you already know what's going on there the there are traps in the edit review i'm going through them uh those are very good well written documents so far i've seen um decreasing just completed the working last call and i think there was some discussion we we heard in the today's quick meeting about multipath week armcad after a long time taking up uh work that i think that is the last working document working document to work with this is about how you send the feedback taps i will say business as usual the taps architecture document when past the working last call and then interface documents is working lost call so that's it uh so far from my working groups a couple of other things uh first of all i neglected to thank the tram chairs gonzalo and simone um for your actual frankly tram predates my uh deep involvement in the area as a whole but uh you know obviously there's a lot of documents that came out of tram and they they were the ones that brought it along so thank you for your contributions to the itf uh i i also want to talk a little about the last little phrase down there um there's a lot of multipath work going on in the area all of a sudden um you know mptcp closed a couple years ago there are some sctp proposals and by multipath i mean sending data concurrently over multiple paths not you know failover there are some http drafts that's whose status is in seriousness is not frankly certain and tsvwg has adopted mpdccp and uh based on what just happened in quick it looks like they're likely to adopt mp quick um i i think those drafts are all properly housed in the individual protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "places that said um there are a lot of common problems in multi-path like scheduling and congestion control that then my view are not really resolved and um i i think now that we i think quick in particular is an excellent experimental platform for for uh multi-path experimentation because it's likely to get through the internet um uh and like we're so i had to kick you around the idea of some sort of bumpy path group maybe a research group maybe a working group um for that research and you know if you have any thoughts on this um whether it's mature enough to be a working group or um or not to to handle that there uh yeah lucas go ahead hey thanks um yeah just just on that note uh the the the presentation that was just given to the quick working group was you know effectively a very small core of what multipath quick could could be from a protocol level to help deliver some of the use cases and a lot of what you just mentioned like scheduling and stuff is like out of scope but clearly needs to be done somewhere um maybe in parallel maybe somewhere else i don't quite know so i support the general idea of someone thinking about this problem so thank you and um yeah i'll be watching and and can participate maybe in some way yeah zach and i will have another conversation with colin and um uh if if there's a lot of work sitting around and we'll put out a call to see if there's a work staying around out in the wings that it's ready to go in a group somewhere uh and then a lot lastly sctp um there are a lot of scp drafts flowing around tsvdwg apparently again it's not 100 clear how many people how many of those are going to be adopted but i i do understand that there's sort of an infinite stream of proposals that the tsvwg is working through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "and that um is potentially grounds to do a working group just to do all this sctp stuff and i think the question is how much that work benefits from being in the tcwg um tcpg is obviously quite loaded with stuff um so if it's just if they're just a bunch of people sitting on their hands while the until the sct people stop talking then um maybe it makes sense to be its own group but if there's a lot of valuable cross-fertilization that happens maybe it should stay where it is so i would welcome your input on that as well okay um not not the most um productive interval in terms of documents but there's a ton of things sitting in the ad key it's a various stages of a d and is g of l so some for outside us and some of that's on authors responding to feedback but regardless we did ship um one thing from dtn the default security context and uh two things went out the rfc door um wait 90 40 i think was before anyway regardless um uh 1997 of course uh congratulations to al and his co-authors uh on the ip capacity metrics draft which was spent forever in rc head for various reasons and of course there's a bunch of stuff sitting in the queue that's that's waiting on things most notably http 3 but certainly a lot of other items as well you can see at the bottom there congratulations to the authors uh so this is the um this is our three times um a year tsv art review team discussion um so the tsv area review team helps us in our av reviews by uh by like highlighting transport issues and drafts from across the itf if they are judged to have any transport implications at all um so thank you to the viewers for doing these reviews i've got there in parentheses the number of reviews they had to do in the last cycle since ietf 111 um so i think uh you know we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "certainly interested in having more volunteers and and i think that number indicates that the load is not huge that we ask people to review less than one draft per cycle so um thank you to volunteers for having a big enough pool to make the workload light and um if you would like to join i think it's a great way to get a window into some of the other things going on in the itf that are of interest so just one correction here i think jonah uh reviewed one so sorry jonah we didn't okay maybe it happened recently because yeah that happened recently i think after we have profit thank you john so thank you and that is the last slide so uh let's go ahead and go to open mic and we invite your comments on um really anything at all but you know we've had some discussion about new groups and uh tram shutting down so uh let us know what you think spencer yeah you can always count on me right um thank you thank you for thank you for the description of uh multipath in the session um it you you mean so you may you're mentioning the impact of on things like congestion control and i think that there are i i think i think i'm seeing other impacts of multi-path uh that that could come up you know i think one of the things i've been talking about for a bit is the thing about the difference between maybe maybe i should be describing this as low-level scheduling decisions versus high-level strategy decisions um basically what are you know what are you trying to do versus what are you trying to do with this packet um one of the things that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "has come up in a discussion recently that i'm still trying to get my head around is the thing is the thing about interaction between different kinds of traffic within an application and uh i'm do that's still iccrg territory as far as you guys are concerned or how do you see that um i don't think i've got a a well-formed charter for this group whether it's research or working group i mean first of all if it's a research group that's not even really my business yeah but but iccrg is obviously doing a good job um yeah i know donna john at times has expressed a little skepticism that he has the right skill set in that group to to really review multi-path condition control um so if it if he wants to take it i'm not going to try to rip it out of his hands but um i think that i think the point that i would like to make is is that um we now have four multipath transports uh in some some states yeah yeah we're saying multi-path right yeah yeah so they're now forward they're sure so so they're full multi-path transports and um they all have like some sort of failover mechanism and and uh to do true like multi-path delivery um has this common set of problems that don't really live in tcpm or quick working group or tsvwg or they could live in tsavg but i think that's too much in tsvwg so there ought to be a forum for this stuff um as this matures whether it's research or working group i'm i'm totally open to people's assessment of the maturity of these these solutions um but that's that's what we're inviting comment on because i hadn't even got it no i think i used it all i think i think you said it all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "i think the main important factor is that somebody is working on into thinking about those things and whether it's the research group on an existing room one or a new one we can always discuss that one yeah i mean i'll i'll i'll just say one more thing and then i'll shut up and turn my video off but uh the thing we did with uh hip in the past where you know the research you know it was it was the same problem but this the research the research topics had a had a research group and a uh and the stuff that had matured the engineering was being done in the ietf with engineers and things like that but i mean there was overlap between the two groups and things like that that's not a guarantee for success and there are there are different ways that that could be done but uh just something to to mention to you all that you are going to be the ones that have to figure out what to do right thank you thanks spencer magnus yes uh i just need to notice that as the one of the triage in the tsvr you missed also michael scharf uh he had also did another review so just in the last week so uh okay so like the slide specifically says through 10 26 so or 26 10 for those of you in the united states so i'm sorry that i didn't bother to update the slide to reflect light reviews yeah yeah but thank you to all of you it was really enormously helpful for me i know personally is when i do isg reviews to have these in hand anything else magnus okay um this could be a very short session i guess uh going once"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "going twice all right we'll see you all oh lucas oh well look look that's under the window it's just in time uh i'm just kidding sorry um i had an idea but i'll save everyone the pain so don't worry we got nothing but time but okay um all right well in the case we'll us see you on the halls and uh if not that then we'll see you at iita 113 hopefully in person somewhere in europe so bye everyone bye i'll see you in other meetings you"
  }
]
