[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:41",
    "text": "okay welcome to NPO three let\u0027s make a start so here is the note well I assume I hope everybody has read this and please know us know if we need to speak more closely to the mic okay blue sheet says blue sheets going around each side of the room please sign that as usual we have Ignace taking notes Thank You secretary okay meeting logistics so this time it\u0027ll be a normal meeting so and I\u0027m going to break up into round tables or anything as we have done in the past although we are going to hopefully ask for a little bit of discussion around some of the points on the agenda we have a very packed agenda so speakers please try and keep to your fine thoughts okay here\u0027s the agenda one slight last-minute change on this compared with one of the recent ones that was posted is that we\u0027ve got an update on this Junaid security requirements I think actually Sami is going to present that any other comments on the agenda okay milestones we really need do need to update these they\u0027re not quite as behind as they have been at some points in the past but nevertheless so I\u0027ve noted in red on these slides any changes that I think needs to be done will also post I promise will post these to the list straight off to the ITA so the main changes on this really are just shifting some of the milestones backwards and also I suggest removing the operational requirements milestone we did have a draft on this a very long time ago I think it was last updated in 2013 around that time doesn\u0027t seem to be progressing so let\u0027s just write the milestone I did add a milestone as well for security solutions since we didn\u0027t have a milestone for that before so I\u0027m hoping that we can get most of the most of these done by the end of this year and middle of next year so the heat is definitely on - to get through this so any any comments on the milestones all right documents later so I don\u0027t think you have any new RFC since the last IDF the multicast framework is in the RFC editors queue a data plan "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:46",
    "text": "encapsulation our chosen data plan encapsulation which is janay that is on the on the ITF but ideally like to send this for working group last call after this idea but we probably need some some area reviews in a couple of well we probably suddenly still routing area chat review we\u0027ve never done that I think that the gen√®ve but we\u0027ll probably need a transport error review as its new encapsulation will also need a security area review so what we\u0027re trying to is get those at least underway before we start the working driven Oscorp once the world what good\u0027ll a school for that is underway i think as we said before with did the design team draft which was empty a korean cap said that to the last goal as well so there\u0027s been some progress on the MVA control plan requirements in a few areas for example the hypervisor to NBA control plan requirements document needs to be last called after this idea one draft as well that we\u0027ve had city in the working group for a very long time there was a lot of interest in virtual machine mobility early on in the life of the working group I think it\u0027s time really to tell us call this draft we did an IPR call recently it yeah I\u0027m one of the editors of this draft and you know this started finishing very good reviews and we just revised that very minor revision so I think that\u0027s ready for working well okay I just wanted to have some slides up now just to kind of review where we are with what kind of dress we have in the working group related to some of our milestones so around the control plane I think we have drafts at least targeting each of the main control plane areas one is the MBE to NBA well we call it a control put in in quotes a control plane I think we discussed a while ago this would be net comp obviously there\u0027s an appropriate young models and the current young model that we have in mvo three only supports VX LAN I think really what we\u0027re looking for is as a young model that supports junaid since that\u0027s our standards track approach so I think it would be very good to get to see some drafts in that pathways Greg Merson is a geek I looked at Geneva and what it might take would be helpful to start data model work I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:47",
    "text": "think that definition of TVs or at least some commentaries that will be used for Geneva will be definitely Coco if there is such work of blend work could use some to be the Jenny waters no I did it a couple weeks ago so okay so if you can actually send any email yeah because I think that you know at least some generic TVs should be part of the base model okay so the other part is hypervisor 28 control plane so we have the high-priced won\u0027t be a control plane requirements that kind of corresponds to the VDP work in the metric awake which is is now done so we as I mentioned we need to move forward with basketball innistrad we also have also discussed applicability of distributed control planes such as bgp evpn so have the draft particular to statement for this on the agenda one thing I noticed there is that our charter is a little bit pat strict in not the skin literally says it doesn\u0027t mention the distinction between an applicability statement and a protocol solution with regards to the BGP control plane it said it basically is if you it could be very much interpreted as you shall not talk about BGP in this working group which perhaps perhaps we need to look at tweaking that part of the Charter Security drafts so we have a whole set of security drafts now related to to Geneva which is great we won\u0027t discuss it immediately now but but I\u0027d like a little bit of discussion around this when when we have the discussion on the sched addressed in the moment but we do need I can fairly strong guidance that we need a firm security foundation for our encapsulation and we have a set of four drafts requirements security architecture an authentication option an encryption option for junaid the current guidance for getting from our ad is that we really need to make some informative references from drafting aids or security solutions and if weak to me if I mean it does not hold up the progress of Junaid because either informative informative references we need to show some progress in this area and some concrete concrete steps to making "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:47",
    "text": "progress on developing security solutions within an OPI three really in order to get Junaid through now this means we probably need to adopt those solutions documents pretty rapidly so ideally it\u0027s very good to make progress on the on the requirements now tech security architecture but really the young goal is to get those solutions adopted in the working group and published eventually the other area that wanted to mention was OEM and how we\u0027re going to progress on Oh am so over the years own vo3 has really had a variety of OEM solutions we had some kind of point solutions for for a non-standard track data plane for example the exelon the x9 GPAs or the OEM bit definition for the GPA we\u0027ve got drop today on the epsilon BFD there\u0027s a path MTU discovery Draft there was a draft on transcending traceroute we also tried to adopt more generic REM drafts around sort of encapsulation and a header for OEM but we couldn\u0027t get any consensus within the working grit to actually adopt those drafts at this stage so given this how should we move forward with om om bo3 I think everyone agrees this is a very important topic it seems twice as chairs that there\u0027s no consensus for a new generic tunnel OEM solution to be the developed you know in MPI three so one of the original proposals was to take originario am proposals and do those in MDI three but we\u0027ve we\u0027ve had difficulty with adopting those okay right on yes I think that what\u0027s important here is that to differentiate active am and two other methods that listed here IOM and alternate marking method is hybrid because hybrid an IOM they exist only when there is a data flow their characteristic of active I am that this test packet can be injected in the network when there is no traffic so if we consider that we need to do for example this part of like service activation testing or service activation protocol so to do verification of service without live traffic then F before M is strong requirement if we think that it\u0027s sufficient to do om only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:47",
    "text": "when there is a data present then our hybrid as well another application of active om is obviously the protection because without at before M we cannot monitor the protection pact as there may be no data flow okay so I would clarify this question to the group is that not just om but list of active or yeah because active PM is again I\u0027m using the terminology that we agreed on in RFC 77 99 is special constructed packets are being injected in the network are to do measurement and monitoring ok so I think this basically comes back to and what I was trying to get to on this slide was we need to address specific problems that can\u0027t be addressed with existing tools within NBO 3 we need to identify what those problems are that we\u0027re trying to address in his working group and then derive what we need to do in OEM from that because many of our solutions in the past have been he have been pastor I\u0027ve been about addressing specific point you know right ARMA Civic issues rather than I can point to their work that being done by overlay om design team and one of the documents that was produced by the design team was the requirement document so there might be a good starting point to discuss and see how much of this work is applicable to nvo 3 and use it as checking for in place this document might not necessarily be finished progressed and submitted as RFC but it might be good to have it around to verify what we have and what we need to do I don\u0027t think we are disagreeing on the requirements are such I think what we are trying to convey here is that the proposed work or whatever we\u0027re going to bring should address the requirements which are already captured right so the existing things do not exist in tool set so that means we need to do that work and that\u0027s one of the things which outlines here these are the proposals out there and we need to progress forward with the pointed solutions okay any other okay so next on the agenda is who is doing a remote "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:51",
    "text": "presentation on meet echo they\u0027re Lango I think you need to yes I\u0027m here are you able to hear me yeah then you would be able to see me as well okay we have the okay yes on behalf of Jenny others I\u0027ll be you know giving an update on gen√®ve what we have done and so far and and also a little bit I\u0027ll touch upon a little bit on the next steps as well so moving on to the next slide so yeah draft you know Jenny was updated on in September and then we made you know few changes based upon the previous working group discussions and also based on the design team recommendations so on one of the point was to add clarifications on the critical options bit and we did that in Section 3.2 the key point here you know how what we clarified is it is helpful in options processing in hardware it gives the flexibility for the the hardware the options to be processed either in the hardware fast path or in the software and the slow path and you know the next point is regarding the fragmentation and there was a discussion and also request to add additional clarification on the fragmentation and also add an infinitive reference to a similar protocol which is actually PW III that also offers similar recommendation so what we did is we provided some clarification on what are the breast best practices and one of the best practices of course is to help to set them to use I saw the physical layer that is that also accommodates the encapsulation and a similar you know or recommendation has also been provided in P we know P W III and we provided an infirmity reference so that it can also refer to that and also we updated additional references that touches upon multiple sections and also the reference section moving on to the next slide okay so I\u0027m sure okay so on the next slide actually we are discussing about one of the you know the comments on you know the alternate marking proposal that was made as part of you know this is again a point solution as the chairs you know discussed earlier in the previous I am "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:53",
    "text": "discussion there are many different solutions on table and this is another one of them and we did as Geneva tha\u0027s we reviewed the proposal to see you know what if there is any impact to Genevan itself and what we believe is we strongly feel that this should be implemented as an extensibility and so that the extensibility can be used not just for this solution but also it it can have wider adaptability for for I am in general an example of such one is actually I am actually in third there is a proposal that\u0027s going to come up for discussion today that\u0027s that that\u0027s just we are showing that as an example but I\u0027m not discussing about the merits of for one a and proposal most of the other a way and proposal but what we are saying is you know you need not necessarily impact the base header but extensibility is used for such kind of you know purposes so that you know om can independently evolve as an extension and again this depends upon you know if there is a working group consensus on way M solutions in general and then that needs to progress you know independent of it independent of the base protocol and moving on to the next slide okay so as the next steps you know what we are doing is to working on adding additional description to the security best practices based I mean are also to add an in know potentially adding an infirmity reference as well in this section as requests you know the chair already mentioned about adding an infirmity references and also you know also to add additional clarification in there basically taking taking some some kind of you know the previous reviews that has happened in other similar drafts we are taking some learning from there and proactively addressing some of those issues so that it can help it can be helpful in the iesg review that\u0027s pretty much what I had any questions or comments so L mizrahi Marvel Arango you were you mentioned the alternate marking did you mean that you were suggesting that alternate marking should be supported no I mean the matrix of the alternate marking itself will be separately discussed as the part part of the ym solution so what I am suggesting is one of the you know that are specifically called out for you know allocating two bits in the base header in order to do that and what I am proposing on behalf of the authors is to you know use an extension for achieving such such solution provided provided the working group decides to go in that direction for ultimate part in pro-am so I think my personal opinion is that adding gen√®ve download option for one or two bits is a bit costly so my point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:03",
    "text": "is I mean this is one solution it\u0027s not just cover the entire way and framework but there are multiple different proposals on table and if if you know all those solutions needs to be accepted then we are allocating more and more in the base header as such you know our our opinion is it\u0027s best to be addressed as an extension so that you know it can not only cover this particular problem but we could also address other use cases for OAM greg mirskiy city I would continue what towel said and I agree with tell that really using extension for two bits yes it\u0027s definitely intuitively it\u0027s too much I point that will already have Oh beats in the header and I think that it\u0027s reasonable to discuss the use of √∂but and whether it can be ready dictated and then we\u0027ll need only one additional bit for the mark I think that it\u0027s reasonable topic to discuss Carlos and vine you\u0027re saying Greg now that we\u0027re only going to use two bits in this option but we could always define an option that\u0027s extensible to future OEM use cases and so it\u0027s not like we\u0027re just wasting all that space then I would like to see the proposal what else we need because again I will get to this a bit I really don\u0027t see what the obit is for I know at once okay thank you all right thank you hi my name is semi-good Rosa I\u0027m gonna be presenting on behalf of Daniel an update sorry my name is Sammy Woodrow so I\u0027m gonna be presenting an update to the Geneva security requirement on behalf of Daniel he is not here today so gene if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "security requirement was presented the first time at last idea and since then the work few officers that were added myself included then as well and Suresh the draft went to an extensive update so we updated the draft to mainly align there is already a draft on IETF and you see security requirement so we updated the draft to align with IETF and you see security requirement we focus as well on engineering so because the ambulation a security requirement was more generic to any gap not really focused on a specific in cap so we aligned the draft then you see security requirement and then we put specific requirement that will protect any cap out and you see cap of Jeannie so next slide okay so so I think this is the status this is exactly what I mentioned that aligning was idea and you see security requirement sorry is not written right here with the focus on the gen√®ve so so it\u0027s protecting the Geneva a packet component we mentioned in the draft that protecting the whole Ginny packet is out of scope because there are already solution that can protect with that so it\u0027s how to protect portion or different packet which is Geneva\u0027s header and options for example right so i think that\u0027s it i think he has a service Pina is that that may be ready for an adoption what is ready and maybe I got a show of hands who\u0027s read this latest version of the security requirements please raise your hand if you\u0027ve read the latest version ok ok I think we really need to get some more a review of this and then it does need to be need to be adopted [Music] yeah oh yeah this so this is when I stand up and remind you that we really need to pay attention to the security and exhort you to please please please actually review the security work okay I we wish to have Geneva go through we need to make sure that we are not causing substantial security issues that are going to impact the deployments and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:05",
    "text": "need to be sure that we have ways of accommodating increased security you know integrity or confidentiality particularly in multi-tenancy data centers so please do read these if you would like to see June you\u0027ve get done if you want to see the working group making serious solid and rapid please progress that I need you to review documents like these yesterday thank you so next we have the EBP an applicability drop good afternoon my name is Jorge Rob Allen and this draft is applicability of the VPN 2003 networks this is the my two colors for Matthew and Tommy so a short introduction about the year to draft so this is an informational draft so in applicability draft and intends to describe from a very high level how to use a VPN as a control thing for an MDL three network so it\u0027s you will notice if you read the draft that there is a long list of references on normative and informative preferences so it\u0027s kind of a reference guide pointing to the right documents in their best working group for the implementation details so it\u0027s not a standard track document so we are not trying to specify any new code of protocol or any extension to the existing me began so for that we got their best working group and we make some assumptions here so we make the assumption that we have a bunch of network virtualization edge devices they need to change the mapping tables the information we are mechanically addresses the I control plane protocol and that control plane protocol is going to be EDD n so the trough has this section about why a VPN any VPN sorry in and vo3 networks so there are certain reasons why a VPN is being used today from a control perspective we need a these three things that you have in this slide we need to have the discovery of the remote MDEs in the network that are attached to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:06",
    "text": "same broadcast domain we also need the dissemination of the maknae P host information user mapping tables that you need on the NDEs in order to forward the the packets for the same within the same tenant and you also need some advanced features things like mobility or Mac detection or the reduction of suppression of the bump traffic our multi going just to name a few so all these things you can do with a VPN the trap also compares well actually tells that you could you could achieve some of these things using the flood and learn approach and that describes the solution with the flood and learn and then basically concludes that that solution has some shortcomings that you can you can actually fix with the evpn and then you have a bunch of sections explaining how to again from a high level point of view how to apply a VPN or layer to services for layer three services and also for some advanced features for instance for layer two services you can if you gather a group of nd ease that are attached to the same subnet same tenon you can use the the basic evpn routes in order to do the how-to discovery of their remote employees and you can also use of course the Mac IP routes to distribute the Makah IP information of the different hosts you know the main reference documents are they want staying out here so basically they are the baseline RFC 742 for a DVD n and if it be n over lane which is one of the main document that we are referencing in this in this draft for layer 3 services you can also if you have a group of nd ease for the same tenant where you have multiple subnets and you need to do this inter submit forwarding you can you can use a VPN in the controlling to advertise IP prefixes you can advertise host routes and also IP prefixes of any length we have this a symmetric or in symmetric model and symmetric means that all the subnets are attached to all the nve\u0027s of the same tenant and symmetric means that basically you only some of the subnets are attached to a given MD so the symmetric model is in that case you need to advertise IP prefixes or host routes and scales much better you know they all the details are in in these two graphs that you have here the prefix advertisement draft and also again into something forward interest the trap also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:08",
    "text": "discusses some other topics like in vo3 encapsulations for a VPN and in particular since Geneva\u0027s the the chosen one and this working group there\u0027s a draft already does that is tackling how the how to use EBP unfortunate actually in the in slide I have the wrong reference but in the in the track you will find a the right reference there is also some talk about om in the context of MgO 3 and evpn and finally you have a section for advanced features you know you can use if you here for those and just to name a few you have how to achieve via mobility or mac protection or duplicate detection or lu protection with it again and the corresponding the drafts in the best work group you can also do smart things with a bump traffic especially the vm originated a control plane bump traffic like a how to reduce or even suppress things like are flooding for naval discovery or IGMP messages or even same messages another separate a draft documents for that in the best working group some of the things that we are describing in the draft is how to optimize ingress application how to tackle multihoming how to do intercepted forwarding with recursive resolution even how to do intercepted forwarding for multicast traffic and DCI and again you have a long list of reference documents and that you can check take you if you need to to see the details so that\u0027s pretty much it so pleased with the on the draft and the idea is that it has to be useful and we would like to low to hear your feedback about it just answer I would like to press out extremely well written document very usable I can just imagine how much work when in gathering all this information first I would like to see the balloon progress and extremely useful thank you very much yes I\u0027m going to get just get a show of hands of who\u0027s read this distraught I mean it\u0027d be good to progress this very very quickly I think so if you\u0027ve got any comments please send them to this and we\u0027ll probably before adoption study very shortly thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:26",
    "text": "see that the discussion about the alternate marking is already started now right moment isn\u0027t drafted about the application of the marking methodology in context of the NGO tree domain so I am disappear and the other out of giganta\u0027s cynjohn just refresh about the reference model for a new tree and and we need at work and just to say that the emulator the layer 2 network is provided by the nd devices which the ATandT system are connected by the network but layer 2 on layer 3 data can be created can be provided by one network operator on multiple network operator but we don\u0027t care about that because the mission of where I\u0027m in domain is limited to the nd encapsulation so the scope of this draft is to define a methodology that to perform any cockatrice delay and jitter measurement for the enviously domain without any consideration about erratic our layering that are out of scope here we want to make support measurement for pair BNI between two nd devices that support is Indian anatomy now why we need to present the marking needed operation in mu 3 there is an angle change updraft that recommend the use of alternate marking to perform measurement and means it needs to be initiated the drafter is general so every angle three other crew support and support this kind of methodology but for now we focus on the generic a that seems to be to prepare and the starting point for the NGO treason opposition so how martin meted operate machi meters split the our flow consecutive batches of pocket by change a flag a bit in the other in this way you can create consecutive of batches that are unambiguously recognized along the path and each measurement point can easily take the counter for each batches and by comparing the counters of the batches between two million two measurement point you can calculate particle in a very simple way the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:29",
    "text": "methodology can be applied for delay in memory so we distinguished about tooth technique the third single marked method and double mothman this is why this is the reason why we asked for two-bit flag for the application of this methodology in sync with single mark method within we need just one day we can call it lb plus B with this bit we can create the consecutive matches that I mentioned before how about the delay measurement we can do the delay measurement will be just one bit by considering for example the first and last packet of the batches as time reference for a tungsten preference for the delay calculation but this can be done but it\u0027s just an approximation some time because it does not work in case of alt order because the first or last part of our batch can be and can even out of see them otherwise we have a do a rage delay calculation so each batch for each batch you can calculate the average time stamp to collect the time stamp for each batch calculate the average to instant and difference between the average times time to between two and points if you mean delay but muscle people is not interested in a mean value for the batches we considered that it depends also on the duration of the batches if your implementation is a dissident that the duration of the batches is very small also the main information for the batches PDB because it works integral to order so if you mean if you make an average time stamp in a batch also if one packet having auto 11 auto border mean there are no problem for the average population for more precise measurement and more complete measurement we need the double mark method so we need to add another flag to the first one to the L flag that we call the big flag delay flag or to select some special packet in our path dedicated for the delay measurement so this packet are markedly good it is implied and so on ambiguously recognized along the our fat and we can calculate the delay it is important because in this way you can have already promotion for the delay in terms of minimum maximum delay and median and also percentage I will suggest to read them ok I now I ever describe the condition "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:32",
    "text": "document or about alternate mark method but we are working on this technology and ultimately I want to mention also a new draft about compact mark anita that they give you also some some solution that used the hashing methodology for select some pocket to perform delay measurement also multiplexing technique to use one bit and to perform the delay with the opposite date and so on so there is an advance and there is a variation of the basic to end the foundation document but I suggest if you are interested you can be okay this is our proposal about the Geneva scale so again the amulet rien cap document suggests and considered generally the most suitable expression for a conduct additional network and yeah about the request of the to be together we make this proposal to consider me to be team leader designed dedicated for this methodology and called the massiveness okay but next step we can consider new application of this methodology because it is an ongoing activity on this technology so I suggest also to read the multi-point of markup that makes some talking about the alternate martin methodology in a multi point in a more generic and Sdn oriented context and k2 informant I suggest to read okay any comments or questions [Music] Greg mercy city I\u0027m copper this and we do have documents in other groups beer succeed that demonstrate applicability of alternate marking method to different layers as well so I think that reason interesting for in two or three to discuss this document going back coming back to question of allocating bits I [Music] believe that it would be good to have this discussion on a list and there in my opinion there are options because use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:33",
    "text": "of all bit and see bit that currently allocated in the header probably could be better explained and I think that at least in an experience discussion with a as a sim working group it was reviewed and decided that for example C bit it was absolute and the position was released back to the reserve boat so if we want to be conservative in using reserve bits in the current Jeanine header then maybe we need to look at how allocated bits will be used in practice yes so specifically I wanted to talk about another C bit I just mentioned that you know there will be our added additional clarification on the use of C bit and that\u0027s useful in hardware implementations are it gives the flexibility for the you know the the package to be processed all options to be processed either in the hardware fast path or the software slow path that information is already been updated in the top and the second point about √∂but again this is specifically for our am messages so when you are processing the entire packet stream of the data packets as well as the OEM messages in the NVE endpoints it allows the it and typically in the NVE endpoints you have multiple queues and the data queues and the exceptions queues or the control Q in which the OEM messages are typically processed and sent to the ym agent that\u0027s in the NVE endpoint when you typically implement in the service and and the orbit allows to send this through the control Q so the OEM agents can you know process this experience predation yes Li as opposed to you know these packet control packets sitting behind the data cube and that is one of the use cases for the √∂but well okay I can refer to I understand that as if C working group has its own reasons to deprecate save it but I think that there is something to be looked at and given a thought in terms of using orbit to prioritize processing for en packet I strongly disagree with this premise because the whole idea of om is that your plate sharing with their data that you\u0027re measuring flow that you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:34",
    "text": "measuring or monitoring doing something special for om really skews and alters your so I strongly disagree with this idea Wendy the extension is specifically meant for that architecture legion ooh allows the extension for you to implement this we don\u0027t see any difference because you are approximating over a batch of products I\u0027m not a pro packets I\u0027m not even going and questioning the merits of whether your alternate marking my third is you know accurate and it\u0027s all serves its purpose that will be you know discussed separately all I\u0027m talking about is the proposal of using bits rather you know the architectural II it makes sense to implement as an extension so that this can evolve independently and you can add additional capabilities to that one for example if you wanted to add sequence numbers to the packets or you want to identify because you are really not proposing doing time stamping on a specific packets and this allows you know you can also add additional capabilities in there in order to identify specific packets to do your time stamping so so I mean as I said right extensibility is allows you to do specifically such kind of use cases and I would strongly you know recommend you to go and look at me look into that as a possibility yes I want to mention two things first we\u0027re not asking for timestamp in sequence numbers and what Kyle mentioned that could they additional options I invite that proposal because I think that these are governor proposals so let\u0027s stay on our quest so we\u0027re only requesting to this we\u0027re not requesting time stamp on sequence numbers second what I want to mention is that we asked working group to discuss it and I hope that working group will reach some decision that editors of the document will comply with okay thanks it\u0027s because it\u0027s mark we need a little of effort more so we don\u0027t need to beat we don\u0027t need an extension to the finally in an orchestration also my experience for the application and on on the network seeing that with the ACL you can configure this on router and you can implement by using the current Rooter implementation okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:55",
    "text": "tell your surprise Thanks so my name is Tom Mizrahi I\u0027m from are well yes that so this draft is about IOM in Geneva as you can see there\u0027s a long list of authors led by friend partners so I guess most of you probably have seen the slide I\u0027m going to go over it pretty briefly in a nutshell IOM stands for in situ om and the idea is that okay so the idea is that IOM allows you to integrate Network telemetry information into in-flight packets into data packets and this avoids the need for control plane om messages and you can still measure the performance of the network accurately the base document of IOM has been accepted by the IEEE ppm working group so it\u0027s being discussed there and these are all questions until the end there\u0027s no way you already have a question that\u0027s why just I can hold it okay so the base document of IOM defines data fields basically these data fields include information which can be either included on a hop by hop basis or on an end to end basis and this information includes for example information like node IDs interface ID is timestamps and also other types and IOM is defined in a way that can fit different types of encapsulations so it can be encapsulated over ipv6 sr v6 and a sage and also Geneva this is the context of this graph okay so this is briefly this is what IOM over gen√®ve looks like so we\u0027re going to have obviously the Geneva header and then after that the IOM data is encapsulated in a Geneva tunnel option so we can see the Geneva tunnel option and then it\u0027s followed by the IOM header and then the IOM data obviously after that we have the payload and the idea is that in the Geneva tunnel option we have the option class in type would specify what kind of volume data resides after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:56",
    "text": "that so now at this point we we come to the interesting part which is the open questions so I\u0027m going to mention the open issues that we\u0027d like to talk about here and then after that we\u0027ll open it for questions and discussion and obviously we want I owe em to be hardware friendly so some of these open issues there are two main open issues which are kind of related to the way IOM is implemented in hardware one open issue is about the tunnel option lane and today the way Geneva is defined is that you can define a Geneva tunnel option up to 128 bytes in length so the question we\u0027re asking here is given that we can certainly think of use cases where we\u0027ll need IOM information which is greater than 128 bytes would it be a good idea to allow Geneva tunnel options to be longer than 128 bytes that\u0027s one question to keep in mind another open issue is related to the way we encapsulate IOM data into the packet so there are two main approaches here and we raise the similar issue this week in SFC so we can see the the figure here will chose kind of two possible approaches the left one and the right one so let\u0027s say that we have three IOM options that we want to encapsulate in a packet so one way to do that on the right side is to have these three options all as part of the Geneva extensibility so we\u0027ll have three different Geneva tunnel options three tlvs okay that\u0027s the right option and the left option is to use a dedicated protocol type for IOM so that means that in the Geneva header the protocol type will say after this we have IOM and then in the IOM header we\u0027ll have a next protocol field which will specify that after that we have another IOM option they kind of like a linked list and obviously there are pros and cons here so some hardware implementations find it hard to parse tlvs so the right alternative may be difficult in some implementations and obviously there\u0027s also an advantage to the right alternative because the gen√®ve header includes an optional length field which actually tells you where at the end of all the options is so if you want to just skip the options you can do that okay so it\u0027s not a clear cut between the two options there are poison content with again we\u0027d like to hear opinions about that the current version of the draft describes the right alternative which uses Geneva options so at this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:58",
    "text": "point first of all like I mentioned the IOM base document was accepted by the IPP and working group it\u0027s being discussed there and this week we\u0027re presenting different encapsulation specific drafts in different working groups so we\u0027re presenting here the IOM over Geneva and as you can see there are other grafts in other words and basically what we would like to ask right now is to receive feedback about whether the working group is interested in adopting this work about whether we\u0027re interested to work on this and of course specifically related to the open questions that we raised here so good time for questions okay let\u0027s begin so are you state that the benefit of IOM is that you use data to export telemetry information rather than use for example appendix G RPC kafka net continent if occations so is that the main advantage there are a few different ways of how to measure the network no the measurement because you you talk about telemetry telemetry is some information that is our state of the no physical resources like CPU utilization memory utilization buffer queues that\u0027s a telemetry that\u0027s not measured by the flow and usually this being exported out-of-band transport so you\u0027re suggesting to export this telemetry information using the wide traffic you state that this is advantage I would like to understand why this is advantage okay so I just want to emphasize I\u0027m not going to focus on the term telemetry this may be the wrong term okay but what we want to do here is to gather information about a path which includes static information like node IDs interface IDs in state information like time stamps and queue depth and so on okay what nodes on a tab and the or 3 layer you want to trace you have NV e and 2n you don\u0027t have NV in the middle so what are you tracing so well if we have iom data which is transported over gen√®ve encapsulation then intermediate nodes don\u0027t have to be gen√®ve nodes they don\u0027t have to be Geneva or notes but they don\u0027t touch gen√®ve encapsulation because they are usually IP nodes they don\u0027t look in gen√®ve encapsulation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:59",
    "text": "unless they look in Geneva for him there well IOM is about measurement so it\u0027s not a layer by itself ok what we want is we want intermediate nodes whether they are Geneva aware or not we want to be able to somehow convey that measurement related information so you expect that notes transit nodes in IP network will be aware of Geneva encapsulation and we\u0027ll look into Geneva cancellation and do something with that so you ask for layer violation I don\u0027t know if I want to use that term but I think that intermediate nodes which we want to measure we want them to be able to update the IOM data without actually using the Geneva setting which is a good topic to take next next what I want to point is can you bring to your open questions I won\u0027t just appoint you that this is a proposal by OAM overlay design team for overlay om header and that was called for adoption that in the three working group earlier this year to have Heather with the next protocol in it are you aware of this okay so specifically regarding the this open question yes that the option that you prefer to have in situ OEM after gen√®ve header and use next protocol and length to define there om information that that was exactly the proposal by overlay om design team for overlay om other question i\u0027m question are they aware of this that they are repeating already than what it was proposed that good of it no I\u0027m just asking it\u0027s not I\u0027m not I\u0027m not trying to judge I\u0027m asking do you know that I wasn\u0027t aware of it but if if we\u0027re reusing something good that was proposed that\u0027s great anyway the current draft is proposing to use the right figure which is the Geneva options hi now this is one from Hawaii I have one clarification question here so yesterday was talking to Frank so is there an outer problem like no this is the max limit where I won\u0027t that I can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:59",
    "text": "be collected say Mike please okay is there any max limit on the OM data that can be connected calculate in the packet it\u0027s like 500 bytes are 300 bytes but there is no max limit as long as you\u0027re empty your supports you can collect it is it yeah so go back to the so as you can see there\u0027s a Mac link max length in the IOM header there is a max length field that defines the max length for that trace option okay and go to the next slide so if if if Janine has a limitation of 128 bytes then naturally the left-hand side naturally fix it right because you don\u0027t have a max limit so you can keep on going right yeah that that\u0027s that\u0027s exactly one of the points here and it\u0027s one of the things that we need to consider when we choose between the options what was the disadvantage so on the left hand side if you\u0027re in the neck what is the disadvantage you think you can have the pen say option yeah so again if you want to be able to skip all the options because you\u0027re not parsing them at all you just want to be able to skip them either to terminate the the tunnel or to be able to parse the passenger then it would would be easier to use the right hand option which is use that deal thank you Frank Roberson just to be clear the left hand side doesn\u0027t really exist today right because it would mean so Jimmy has its own protocol option 64 something right so define new ones for doing something like on the left hand side so you can almost say that that is complimentary orthogonal whatever to gen√®ve so if we\u0027re riding with engineer tunnel option is he on the option which leads to nested lookups which is a challenge from a hardware implementation perspective at least to some extent but the bigger question is really because it leads us to 128 bytes max which is a way of constrain and so it\u0027s a concern and if we could spare another bid or two for length in the genepattern that would kind of relax things quite a bit so that I think the end cap would be more workable and I wanted to go come back to the original discussion so I OEM do certain things certain things are quote unquote up by hob and there is a notion of a transit hop result so those are things that are end to end like that he can do use end to end like sequence numbering time stamping and others so and it depends on the use case on how you use these options so if you want intermediate things to go and fill in well maybe maybe not I think that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:00",
    "text": "orthogonal to the discussion here what we want is a container to carry IOM data and what happens within the container I think it\u0027s up to what the operations remain we need to cut the line break we need to cut the line thanks so I will present you Mac Mac move flush signaling over Geneva so what is the use case first so we\u0027ve got two edges that are connected to an l2 access network and those two Geneva edges are working in active standby mode to avoid loops in the l2 in the access network and of course in case of error of the primary node we want to signal very quickly to the rest of the Jenna fabric that how to reach l2 access network so this is the goal this is a use case here for this drug so what are we doing we are using OEM mechanism inbound in the Geneva Geneva tunnel to to signal that the over edges in the fabric need to flush or move the max from one edge to another the goal is to have a faster convention convergence not to wait for Mac edging that would be done normally in this case so this in this drive what we propose is a new TLV that would be sent by the standby edge to the entire fabric with the rest of year energy in in the fabric there so in this glv we had we had a sequence number and an act it to make sure that the remote end received the message and I acted on if they don\u0027t receive any acknowledgment will try to really try with a default time ability a lease agency few questions comments yes there\u0027s this is for data plane "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "learning not controlling yes and for data plane learning how do you currently do it with the VX manager yeah so there is currently there is solution or this kind of issue has been their own and for data plane learning in t v-- BB pls and so forth and to make it encapsulation and transport independent RFC 62 46 suggests using existing I Triple E flushing you know you can just send the mbrp message inside your Geneva Inca indicating the vni and that basically understood by the remote and flashes the night address for that DNI and that makes it transport independent so have you given any consideration to the existing solutions for LSD you are point if you you know like those so very good so the point that I\u0027m trying to raise and this is once again denied the Macra withdraw in here or mic washing if not transport dependent you need to reinvent another mechanism for the explain you need to invent another mechanism for GUI for GPE so far you\u0027re doing transport dependent Mac pressure the working group is pushing for gen√®ve so that\u0027s what is the point the point is if you can easily do transport independent then there should be a very good reason not using that existing making that\u0027s one quick thing when you talk about these a Kista this is on a pyramid not because this gets flushed with a bunch of notes and then you need to keep a list of food sending hack "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:01",
    "text": "who\u0027s not sending a canned all that needs to be okay for travel I\u0027m not here I noticed you are assigning a vita PI D parent EE but there is no information about how you assign those ideas and based on what its kind of having it needs much more information acting and also how in the redundancy group our Z active knowing there and yeah ID and all that is so at the moment no I mean one reading the drafters know where you can implement this one okay okay they\u0027re coming Michael Smith Cisco at just a quick clarification question I assumed this is not piggybacking on data package right this is and yes that\u0027s independent of the prototype Imogen even my my name is Sammy Woodrow so I\u0027m presenting a draft on Geneva applicability for SFC so SFC has defined and in cat is an SH in tap and for n sh has FC already have defined a protocol for it so it can be carried by any transport so you need to carry an SH that would be state forward Geneva ready is a transport that can carry the protocol so we simply need to put in the gen√®ve header protocol type or an SH and now we can carry on City however in this draft we are trying to put sorry we have a different slightly different proposal on how to achieve the SFC we still are talking about carrying the service function pass information and the metadata that the an SH as well define as option TLB into the gen√®ve tunnel so we are proposing having a source routing LV very similar segment routing consisting of a list of service "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:05",
    "text": "function we call that option a service function list it\u0027s simply a list of IP addresses of the service function that service function passes to gusu of course by doing this we eliminate as a need of having a pass ID or a service topology or a service forwarding table that map the path ID and service index as defined by nsh2 n IP and as well we can carry into another option here visa an SH metadata and SH has defined metadata v on take stand by two variable lines so those can be carried as well as option of course yeah you know as I mentioned we we can carry a message as a protocol into Geneva and and that doesn\u0027t really require any graph to say so so this is the use case here following the SFC architecture so those and bees can be sought as service function for order that are connected or rather he connected to the different service function so at the ingress and V we are doing the classification and the class apart here such is the service function pass information into the genies tunnel as an option and send it and and then sorry resolved the first service function to the genies funnel that\u0027s connected to the NVE or the service function or order that\u0027s connected or hosting it was an easy hypervisor that could be hosting the BNF function so it will resolve it to the tunnel to the person B and then the nd here can send the packet to the service function and the return packet when it comes it can find into the service function list the next service function to go to resolve it again to another gen√®ve tunnel and and pass goes on of course it multiple service function are hosted within the same service function for order or MBE then you know service function border we have the intelligence to send the different service function now when the last NDE or the egress and the e received a last packet it it will forward to the last service function and for the return it can forward the final destination of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:08",
    "text": "the customer this means there are definitely a lot of details on exactly how to do that and I think the previous slide I forgot to mention that that source routing TLV follow could be secured as well with some authentication here following procedure described in the segment routing header draft ecigs that source routing here B can include both ipv4 and ipv6 addresses so start limited to only sixes before or v6 can be into that service functionality so yeah I\u0027m saying you know please read the draft there are lots of detail that describe the exact mechanism and as well as some details about what we are gonna be passing along the packet if even surface function is nsh aware or not you know and how are we going to pass me the data to it or key contacts associated with the service function list as we are passing or going through the pass of the service or the service function back okay sorry Kyle eros and mine I haven\u0027t I didn\u0027t was reading the draft at lunch and then I got distracted and finish it I think maybe you\u0027ve just explained as quickly in your last little comment there but do you discuss how to map so be we\u0027re stripping the encapsulation before sending into the service function could how do we map that packet back to you so as we were that our co-option mentioned in the draft one option is your service function board itself becomes stateful about what do it son so cannot see ya or pass some metadata to the service function and once that metadata is echoed back then you can look up which service function this.width not so the service function now needs to be aware that is part of a chain which isn\u0027t really much different than what we have right now with NS h or sr v6 so what\u0027s the big advantage here over those two options I\u0027m just struggling to understand why anyone would do this as opposed to just use SR v6 or NS h I think you string to the draw which I have yes our v6 thang "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:12",
    "text": "okay this last - those two slots are really about the x-man so if we can just quickly get through the slides and then take any comments or left so we can finish on time I\u0027ll be okay so this is a short update on a draft that been working on the need for of the explain so two version updates we clarified edit a use case that actually what\u0027s remarkable if I go to the last bullet you see that there are already two individual implementations of the V over V X then and I think that\u0027s kind of clue us hey guys can you finish this so and one of this implementations they illustrate their use case to use the monitoring of multicast bomb traffic replicator so which is really nice idea of how to use VFD for the excellent and what we added is just to illustrate how big the overhead of extra encapsulations could be for very little load of big control message so this is what work of multi-protocol in India three costs extra extra headers but you know if you cannot do any better than you have to do this so you have outer Ethernet header IP header UDP header than the extend header and inner Ethernet header you know IP header UDP header and then finally only give the control message just for pure scientific interest this is how the excellent GP will look for the view control packet so thanks to the multi protocol support it looks much nicer and more elegant and actually it can have either IP encapsulation to demultiplexing of give the control packet using well-known UDP port for the single hop give this session in forward direction or it can use encapsulation or a.m. header and then give the control message can go without any IP UDP overhead so here our request to the working group please discuss it and world like adoption of this document and we\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:14",
    "text": "think that it\u0027s really new time because there are implementations and second we are would you agree or suggest to address the excel NGP in the same document or you think that it should be a different document oh yeah Atlas so I\u0027m very happy to see that the excellent work it\u0027s you know the excellent GP is something that we decided as a working group is not going to be standard track and the working group needs to focus on OAM for Geneva we\u0027re happy to see stuff for the excellent that\u0027s what\u0027s out there and deployed Thanks okay thank you that\u0027s what we need feedback hi I\u0027m John lemon first my apologies for omitting the co-authors Bobby oh my oh no and Michael Smith I recognized the lack of urgency on vehicle and GPE instead portion F but as mentioned it\u0027s still in use and we are actively trying to add up just a little bit to it I would appreciate if you could take a very brief look at this five page long draft provide any comments about the approach towards it and provide feedback on this the basics of it is it\u0027s just carrying a group based policy and using GP e to carry it so that we can carry it along with other simultaneous subheaders such as IO am this is an example usage of it you notice it\u0027s a extremely short little header not much to it and for those that might be familiar with draft Smith the excellent group policy that extends VX LAN and this is different in that it would expand the Excel and GCE the status of the internet draft is this is the very initial proposal so far it\u0027s been reviewed only by co-authors and I\u0027d appreciate review from others that have any interest in this so provide comments and eventually we would like a code point for this and that\u0027s it thank you okay all right thank you very much I think that we\u0027re done thanks very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:16",
    "text": "and please take any comments on those drafts to the list as they\u0027re mentioned the focus is on on Geneva at the moment so we\u0027re going to push through the Geneva graphs first and see you anandhan oh one more thing if you have the blue sheets could you bring them to the front please [Music] you "
  }
]