[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:30",
    "text": "hello hi Richard I think you're the only ones really connected to the meeting other ones are yeah I was gonna say it looks calm so far yeah I don't expect a big crowd with casting for sure right yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and we settle down for the usual starting time of three or four past yeah good to give some margin try to do the same for the reading group and other things that people make through killing gradually yeah so [Music] yeah so they sent out the info for the open house but let's see uh if someone Mario wants to give some limits I suppose yeah it is the right meeting you can also see the the URI yeah and I came yeah oh very disgusting hi Kirsten uh cost me if you're trying to say something at least I can't hear anything same hello hello hello let's wait one or two minutes more but I have the impression we are going to be a very small group right yeah unfortunately Christian had to excuse himself yep so for information Carson it seemed they fixed the issue I reported on miteko about the refresh button for the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "uh good not visible now now I can see it yeah let me check whether I still can see it yes okay you 'd already us ing the problem yeah but maybe they fixed it for you and broke it for me the normal thing to do for safety engineer but yeah they are great at every meeting I reach out to Alessandro I think and I always give them compliment on their service they're great I think yeah I'm not complaining at all it's just important that we check things and don't uh fall into the traps when we actually need it okay I'm waiting to C5 passed in my clock oh yes okay there we are so well let's get started um hi everyone uh this is the intermitting of the co-working group medicine and since this is an officiality of meeting then not what applies uh take care of understanding that please be nice with one another it's also and special about conduct not only about IPR Titans and so on so the agenda for today uh is about mainly two items both Garcia and corcom I and non-traditional responses about which we were expecting a discussion especially from Christian but we have some material if we want to to have an early discussion at least and that can continue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "um at the next interim for example anything more or any bashing otherwise we can go for this okay cast and then we can start with corkov quickly skim near slides before yeah um so I was hoping we were going to have a nice discussion about corresponsive side try not to take the whole time uh so I only have nine slides I think um so I think everybody here is uh aware of the fact that we have these four documents one of which is an RCA one is uh has been in isg processing it has been pushed back to the working group which is called Sid one is in working class called past stage but since we decided to make one significant simplifying round at this and one more that has reached broken glass called past so a couple of years ago but probably needs to ingest all the changes that that have happened in in the landscape so I want to talk about corset and core comma today because well Yankee was out there and uh I quickly talk about Yankee at the end um and yang library is maybe too early uh to to do the finishing touches on I mean the main work has been done so um talking about course Sid car seat is really about a location of Yang SIDS that are needed for Yang sibo to get its full um efficiency and this is an interesting thing because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "it's pioneering a location of identifiers over a large flat space so people who needed large spaces have done this hierarchically before that and we're trying to do this in a flat space and that's interesting we think we've made it but um yeah we had some some minor uh issues here with the need for status information in the files we use to record this allocation so this is what needed to be done to get core said 20 and then we found that that the tool we used to generate the examples speaking actually didn't quite do what we think it did so what we really need to do now and what we have been needed what we needed to do for for three months now and haven't gotten through is running a patched up being to generate the Sid file example in in the document and uh the special thing here is that we probably don't want to disrupt all the people that actually are using the existing citride education so we're actually going to use the the existing Sid file as input to peeing which is something that that it can do so we don't want to renumber the the numbers that may be used in other documents as examples but we have to make sure that all the relevances are now in there and this means not just it's for data uh items but also since that that describe specific points in the data tree that are not normally directly being exchanged only sub trees of that are being exchanged"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so there is some some uncertainty here um and of course in the end we want tping to to emit the complete set but on the other hand this example file doesn't have to be completely right because we can always add things later even if this is a bit painful so this is where we are and um just to remind you me remind you what this means is we already have numbers like 17 15 to 1719 which are data uh identifiers that point into the example that we were using the iitf system module and uh we have to fix those a little bit because we uh Yang didn't output the the full string here it should have said slash input and and slash output for rpcs but it also left out a point in the tree this is the seven one seven one star here uh that that it probably should have because in the end you may want to use a sit for that even if it's not a daily occurrence um there's also a little bit editorial work that is needed because what Sid really does is it defines a process that everybody can use but it doesn't necessarily mean everybody has to follow exactly that uh process and we now have an example for the appearance and allocation document has a slightly different way of doing the allocation um so there will be a document there that describes how to do the allocation and what we need is a couple of sentences that say that alternative process are acceptable as long as the objectives which fortunately we have documented um are still addressed so the whole"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "section 2 of course it tells us what those objectives are and if you come up with an alternate process that actually fulfills these objectives but also fulfills objectives that this specific allocation has and the AP when people have some some very specific requirements on on the space they use um you can use that that other alternative process so that's one thing that has to be written up um probably with Laura and the other people who are doing this this work so this is what needs to be done and uh the the timeline that I see is we can do those process process exception edits you can do them in parallel with the pigeon works or one of Laura's students I think has a fog of peeing that does more useful things here and we may be able to leverage that and based on these two we should prepare Dash 21. and discuss this on the list and maybe on the next intro even though that now is starting to fill up and my objective is to have a working plus call in that same week where the interim is so that the working grass call is completed before igf 117 starts and then we can do any necessary further discussion in 170 and submit to isg again so the changes are not big but they are significant the timeline looks good by the way um I think in the original plan we weren't expecting yet another working group first call it will be the first one but looks appropriate um uh I didn't don't remember who did this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "but when whoever is managing this on the isg side sorry I forget um look at this they decided that it's uh better to fully push this back into the working group and uh maybe doing your working with us call it's a reasonable way I mean the the chairs can always declare consensus but um if I were a chair on this I'm not because I'm an offer I would probably think I I don't have a good basis for for declaring consensus I think it's good to have one more all considering also what you presented uh if you check the current status right now after all the dance we had with Eric is saying um waiting for working rupture go ahead so we put the status like after we passed an intended last last call so we just have to reverse it further back but that's fine and I just like to confirm with Jaime who is also Shepherd uh right I think we can definitely go for this yeah so I didn't say whether this is a two-week working Google one week workout you get to decide that but I think actually having a proper working plus call on this one is is a good thing and I think we even have time for a two weeks foreign sounds good thanks good so this is the plan for corset now let's talk about the Kumai uh we had a pretty important discussion at the London igf um where we um at the hackathon uh said that this is all great but it's just too complicated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "we need to reduce the complexity and uh so so I started doing some complexity reduction but then I think Christian came with the idea to to maybe simplify the significant significantly because we do have Fetch and Patch which we didn't have when this originally was designed so we can use those to simplify things and then the question was how how radical are we and I think we now have converged on the non-radical solution uh so we we don't um do we don't use sketch I'll put uh for accessing individual uh parts of the tree but we keep get put and delete for whole data so access so I'm I'm personally I just don't know enough about Yang to know when how data access makes sense but several people have told me they would like to use that so so let's keep that in so today I merged the the branch that has all those changes and submitted it as a dish 13 so it was on the GitHub repository all the time but maybe it needs to be advertised more uh openly and this means we we now have an official internet draft that we can discuss on the list and if there is any need for discussion uh maybe even at the interim there are two little wild cards in there one is um there is a ZIP file example in there and one question is do the pean changes we do forecast it actually impact this Sid file as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "I don't think so but we we need to check uh with Yang experts and the other observation is that the Sid file is for a module that uses RC young data which we actually replaced by SX structure uh in in the other draft and maybe we need to check whether this is needed here as well so I fired off a question to Rob Wilton who suggested replacing us young data by ethics structure in um uh uh called Sid so if all this works out we should be able to do what new glass Hall approximately at the same time we do the one forecast hit or even earlier if we get all these questions answered quickly because uh yeah we don't really want to change very much in the simplified version anymore um and again we should be in a position to discuss the outcome of the working those working of last call at 117 and submit to the isg yes and it's great to run them in parallel and here we also have the shepherd already appointed it's Michael Richardson good okay so in need to tell him what we discussed today and finally just just a further Outlook a look into the crystal ball as I said we may want to finish Yang Library um again check whether this is the the right level of complexity for what we're trying to do here and the other thing that people are banging on our doors about is the fact that even with Yang sibo as as the container representation format the actual data that the Yang model is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "about are still like in an XML document so they are all text based we have text based IP addresses and that really hurts for IPv6 we have text based dates and so on and it probably would be a good thing if we had a way to switch an existing um Zhang model to a more efficient representation but nobody knows how to do that so this is going to be a design effort and not just a slam dunk let's write this up and standardize it um so the question of course is how do you handle the fact that new binary formats are going to come in and how how does a how does the evolution work with potentially uh different uh players being at different levels of evolution on on this so this is the the hard part and I'm just saying this so so it doesn't seem like we are completely done I think we are in a very good shape but doing this will really unlock the the for a few more things that we might want to do so this is what I had prepared thank you very much looks under control okay uh yeah I have another comments or questions really looking forward for next steps in two weeks latest and okay we we can touch uh non-traditional responses and again Christian was very useful to have uh today about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "without him uh the few things I have in mind are um his high level question on the list that I reply to so I confirm I'm still on the same idea and you had some quick curler reaction to to my review Carson but yeah I understand it may need time to be interested otherwise I think you wrote the objectives for today in the notes yeah you did uh we can still go through them if you want and and again we can bring this up for the next meeting anyway yeah so um it seems to me we have had some feedback that this unifying approach is probably a good thing um so this this is the um the ecosystem thing so um when we designed Co-op like certain years ago or so um we always had an architecture blueprint in in the form of HTTP and had a pretty good idea which part of the baggage we would want to lose and and which other parts were essential for what we are trying to do uh but with these different ways of of doing uh security and and multicast and and configured observe and so on uh we are now going beyond that blueprint so it's probably a good idea to actually write up another uh blueprint in particular to with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "responses like the multicast responses excuse me the responses to multicast requests and the yeah I'm still falling in the same time um and the the notifications that come to observe requests um they are part of this bigger picture and they they actually are innovations that we did at the time without having the a big picture so that's one aspect uh writing up the big picture essentially writing up an architecture um the other thing that this document actually does is it defines a few options and um these have had very little review I'm not aware of implementations of them the the some of them just show one way of doing things mostly to illustrate the architecture not necessarily to be finalized versions of options that we actually want to introduce um so um when we discuss what what the the is this a normative document or not um we should consider that we probably want to extract these these normative parts anyway uh maybe not do all of them at the same point in time maybe apply some more thinking it doesn't really make sense to to provide a count of additional responses you receive which this Leisure for responses option does um so that's really something that that's better discussed in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "uh with support from implementations and from from interoperative experience um so I think this might have a sufficiently different timeline from the architecture Parts uh that it may be the best way to handle this by by doing the architecture in informational document um and then do one or more normative documents that just Define these these options but again we need these options to actually illustrate the architecture so this is uh a bit of a difficult situation to to have uh illustrations in here that aren't actually meant for for consumption as a normative document so best case we will do all this quickly enough together that that we don't need that and can just point from this document to the normative ones um or we might want to to put in the illustrative options with a big caveat folks this is really just uh showing the idea no there won't be DVDs for that because the the auction numbers will be defined for the real options and not these illustration options so that would be uh my my answer to the the second third item on the objectives and looking at next steps well we need to have a discussion about several things including the terminology questions that that I raised um today um but yeah we can certainly start doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "that on the mailing list and uh Marco thank you for the the detailed review so uh we of course also can can Implement some of the comments there so I have started making a few changes on the GitHub repository um so that can all happen in parallel but we have to have these discussions and uh sorry go ahead yeah I just wanted to jump in with that quick comment I don't have any detailed feedback but I do think this unifying approach makes sense and um I'll try to get updated a bit in more depth before this discussion on the list torch or if this is taken up again in the next intern thank you I I was saying at least personally I don't find the terminology confusing especially multicast responses to me means a response sent over multicast irrespective of how the request was so I don't know even multicast sent response uh it is clearer and better to me becomes a bit more cumbersome yeah so that's always the problem with terminology if you put the definition in the term then it's no longer usable so you always have to make some abbreviation and I'm just noticing that I trip up on this all the time and uh that maybe just be a function of my age or it may be uh maybe an indication that we should further improve the terminology and I would say this this comment on configured requests versus phantom requests which essentially are all in the same class but when we use the term configure we probably should be limited to the cases where there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "actual configuration uh uh going on and have another term for the whole set of non-traditionally transmitted requests also I think the overall strategy you had in mind before is good meaning having the architecture informative it's it's about acknowledging that um things are yeah broader than original imagine uh somehow documents popped up and thinking that way so let's just flat the ground to have a common understanding and yeah that sounds like informative well the options um are another story I agree um I had the impression from a quick chat from Christian that he had in mind yet another possible option um actually um quite similar in in scope to the option multicast timeout um the finding group com proxy so that option is very explicit and tells the proxy send me back multiple responses to this same request for X seconds then stop um Christianity in mind uh well something similar but with no fixed indication in in terms of seconds and so on more on from now on until I tell you otherwise send me back multiple responses yeah so we would need a way to deactivate these things exactly it really works switch on and off and I wasn't understanding exactly about the use case also and he had something in mind uh he thought of a case where you have a client a proxy a group of servers say you have group of score end-to-end between client and servers then you have oscore between the client and the proxy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "that you would use to protect for the proxy uh multicast timeout and my original thought was if you had yet another proxy in between the client and the proxy I mentioned before uh that to make things work you that an outer version of multicast timeout for that proxy and Christian would like to avoid that if I understood correctly in interest of privacy so for that second proxy you help instead to have a more uh more generic and less detailed option just telling that proxy trust me go ahead with this multiple forwarding until I tell you if I understood the use case correctly which is pretty advanced I understood the same it needs some additional signaling but it's like a privacy preserving just saying that yes multiple responses are to be sent and but you need some additional signaling to indicate one two help that process yeah so we have this weird way in which we deactivate get requests with the observe option uh so maybe we have to look at that again and see whether that generalizes thanks I think Christian also mentioned that uh to avoid introducing yet another option he considered observe and then found the caveat so that it made that not working or less convenient so that that's why I started to think to a new Option altogether but yeah we should double check yeah I'm talking about the the way observe works not necessarily actually using the of the um okay but observe essentially solves two problems one is the the deactivation um and the other is the the indication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "of order which may or not may not be of interest yet I don't know um I think I I covered all the points in the notes and the dimension yeah so yeah we really need Christian to discuss more unless you want it to go already through my review but I don't think so okay but uh let's say that we can continue with this well on the list for sure for everyone and on the next meeting uh where is a placeholder I was thinking already or something that we were hoping to cover today already and couldn't work for [Music] that issue on attacks on Co-op um so if you checked some maze Carson looks like it were for John I just wanted Christian to confirm and I suppose it's fine if you can attend the meeting all together so in two weeks we may have well corkov again non-traditional responses attack on Co-op and I don't know if you heard from Martina about DNS not yet okay somehow I think they can all fit to some extent if all of them are confirmed but maybe we should try to not add more yeah that will be a pack meeting then yeah okay uh uh then I think we covered everything we had in mind for today and I I don't see any new participant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "joining so shall we try to to schedule a side meeting at 117 probably do this outside of 117. oh well if we manage with the time zones yes even during the ATF week we can make it I think we need to to have the final ATF agenda before starting to juggle but in principle yes so I have the impression that me ricarden Martinez if you had in mind something very extended will be on site yes I'm outside I would go in the side meeting too of course depending on when it fits to place it but yeah it should be doable are we we have had an official site meetings for a long time in the um call working group um so the the main problem is setting up things like audio and possibly video in a way that that remote participation uh kind of works and since uh quite a few people will not be on site um that that's uh maybe interesting but uh yeah um I think the high high bandwidth communication where I think Marco Antonio probably have ways of having high bandwidth communication don't do you only ever meet at ITF meetings like like oh no we're in the next rooms right now so we have plenty of bandwidth now yeah I wanted an office mate that I met at IDs more often than in my office yeah it's a good idea"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "yeah yeah let's arranged one yeah we probably need to reserve a room because before everything is gone um so I I can have a look that also comes around the time when they share guidelines for booking yeah test sessions for chairs and so on so I'll also keep a look at that okay uh there's nothing else for the people we are around was a productive meeting I think thank you very much Rico for helping with the notes no problem yeah okay talk to you soon thank you bye-bye bye"
  }
]
