[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "all right it's time uh to start welcome to um uta at itf 114 your chairs one of which is on site and the other is remote um you agree my co-chair is right there hi very good um so with the usual reminders of note well please note the note well well and also on the uh itf code of conduct that's uh well be nice to each other speak clearly at the mic and stick to the topic at hand is one way of expressing it and for this meeting mask is required in the meeting room with that we have a a reasonably full agenda today there there's a lot of stuff to cover um we do need a couple of note takers we need a well a normal note taker and if if possible somebody to go watch tulip and and channel any discussions to the mic that can't be anyone who can't sort of be um you know either remote or using voice remote or in person so we get some volunteers to um um all right so valerie is taking care of zulu but we do do need a notetaker oh perfect man thank you so ben schwartz like volunteered to take notes this is um this is really good all right with that um here's our agenda today um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "we are going to start with rich we're going to talk to us about the ip address issue um and then honda's to talk about iot and i see hannah's here already joe i haven't seen i haven't seen joe online oh there you are perfect right so we actually have everybody here that needs them here so rich do you want to want to get going i'm going to see if do you want to do this or should i okay let me all right let's see if i can make this work there we go okay uh hi i'm going to leave after my session not because my ego is so big but because there's a conflict okay next slide all right so uh like two weeks ago three weeks ago martin thompson proposed that we add support for ip addresses there is um the subject alt name extension in pcx has a type for ip addresses the obvious thing to call it is ip-id similar to dnsid and the other terminology used in 6125 and 61-25 bis rfc 9110 which was presumably martin's for bringing it up has text about validation the rule is very simple a reference id matches if the ip address matches fairly straightforward it's not uncommon in http um if you've ever typed you know http colon slash 127001 you've done it um presumably there's more mechanisms that are going to come http alternate service and some of the other mechanisms that are being added to http are more likely to include more of these kinds of things and there may even be other uses outside of http i don't know next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "okay so the issues uh it is admittedly late martin said so in his comment um it might make the draft more widely applicable i don't know i i i'll take him it was had his word uh the simple wording change does have ripple effects through the document um for example in the front near the front of the dock it says here's the rules and then you have to add like an escape patch for step three that says but if it's an ip address do this it's just editorial where it's missing um so the goal is we should want to seek working group consensus whether or not to do this it wasn't clear if there was consensus chairs thought there was i thought there was no we're not quite right there's an initial pr i reopened the pr on the issue it's on github so the pr is by martin initial admittedly incomplete the issue about doing it is there not in the bullet list but probably worth noting is uh i'm going to be kind of busy with nom-com for the next five months so but i have a co-author a little bit busy i'm just gonna pick all the old uh incumbents and do them again anyhow uh next next slide so the current text in the out of scope section which this obviously would go away is identifiers such as ip addresses are not discussed protocols other than http may want to consider and then points to 9001. not whatever 9000 something as a validation model um i think that's reasonable description of the issues uh looking for you know what the working group wants to do so with my chair hat how much is this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "gonna screw us over in terms of time uh timeline you know i'm complaining it's probably not a lot of work to do all the wordsmithing necessary okay um so it's more like a it's your availability that's really sort of yeah and even then i'm still just complaining so it's probably not going to add much elapsed time we could probably still be done before the next ietf so you're comparing a little bit but not too much i'm complaining a little bit not too much peter andre is also available all right so yeah um alessandro gadini cloudflare uh we do have you know use cases for um https and other secure tls connections to um ip addresses specifically for example the cloudflare resolver with the 1.1.1.1 address so ideally i would want to see this supported i can help with you know review prs and whatnot yeah um martin thompson out of the queue now um i put that that pull request together and i do sort of appreciate where you're coming from rich after having tried that it is a little bit more work than simply just adding sort of one bullet point and removing the we don't do ips from the from the front matter it's not my document so i don't i wasn't able to identify everything i don't think very confidently but um i think probably the most interesting aspect of this uh the section that talks about which one was it the sans or like not sans the srv or something yeah this is about service identifiers right sip colon foo sip s colon foo dot bar"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "yeah example yeah and some of that was a little fiddly but other than that the changes are pretty straightforward that what you would imagine goes in here so hopefully what i've got there would be enough to get you ninety percent of the way unfortunately the last ten percent is always the hardest part i'm kind of asking you to do it yeah uh to some extent http already has it has what it needs but i don't think the text in um rfc 9110 is particularly good now that i've looked at it again i'm sort of looking at it going oh that's gee we could have done a better job with that and and this document here is is that much better job okay so i like like others i think i think the worth work is worth doing even if it means one more cycle uh and a little bit of complication i'm happy to help i'm i tried to help but uh that's about the extent of my ability i'm afraid because yeah you know the document better than i do sure yeah i don't want to overstate i don't want to sound like a grumpy old man so i don't want to overstate my concerns about it i'm really whatever the working group wants is fine you know um i should also mention we're about to submit a draft that shows how to use ip addresses in sni fields so oh yeah that'll be a fun conversation dot dot inaudible so all right so um quick sense of the room um and i'll i'll use the hand raising tool if people really want me to but otherwise i'll just sort of do it this way um in this room sorry a message from alexey melindikov in the chat so he thinks that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "this problem should be addressed but not in this document alexa is right behind you in the quran go ahead alexa alexa do you want to make a case for a separate document yeah hello sorry um i think the properties are slightly different so it would be nice probably i think it would be better to have a separate document for this just to keep it clean so are you volunteering to write one i don't mind helping out yes can you repeat that he didn't mind helping yes don't mind helping yeah because so i i would actually want don't want the working group to block on this right so if we we want to sort of either proceed with like a a clear commitment from authors to to kind of come back with a separate document or um like we proceed with this pr or we decide that this is not work worth working on at all um so i don't want us to hang in limbo here so um martin you wanna yeah i wanna ask alexi why um because i think the y is more important here at this point than just saying this one or the other one alexi well i think uh your comments about certain things wouldn't apply to be addresses it just made me concerned and if it doesn't fit quite right you know just make it a separate document so i believe the working group should probably separately ask"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "whether we should work up on this and how it's done so i i would i have you looked at the changes that i proposed i haven't quite caught up with this but um yeah so the reason that i think this document is a better place for that aside from having everything in one place is a nice and one-stop shop for people who are looking to reference these things is that there are some interactions with the existing things and that was the complicated part of getting the work done it's not super complicated or anything but having an extra document that comes in and surgically amends the the various pieces of of an existing document to to put ip addresses in there is somewhat more complicated than um and then i think getting it done here now that the patient's open so that's where i ended up once i did the work that's all okay yeah my coverage is i haven't uh reviewed your pr yet so maybe i can commit to doing it within next few days or something like that all right does anybody feel strongly against um progressing with um pr54 what was it strongly against progressing with what progressing with pr-54 you're important oh if alexi can get his document done and it's i mean you know i've sort of come around to martin's viewpoint right victor hi um are there name constraint issues that perhaps would add some complexity for ipid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "do we have a specification for ipid name constraint processing and also does that live here or would that be 5280 and refinements so the doc right now talks not at all about name constraints which i think are kind of horked anyway right um so presumably would be 50 20 50 to 80 bis which is never going to happen so yeah i mean no they're probably i don't know if there are anything there's nothing workable about name constraints for ip addresses that that i can recall but that i may be wrong so so the answer there is that there are no names name constraints defined for ip addresses nor do i expect there to ever be given rich's point about 5280 uh being set in stone in a way that i think is probably not a bad thing entirely maybe you know if alexi wants to do his draft and thinks he can get it done in the short term then we can maybe decide but on the other hand i'm willing to if the working group wants to do it i'm willing to do it i just don't promise anything before 115 maybe a month before i mean i've heard people stand up and say that they volunteer to work on it which is a good thing right so it's an indication we can get it done yeah so i was going to suggest that now let's not expect rich to do all of the work i think peter was interested in spending a little bit of time on this one the the editors can collab if they want to ask me to do something i'm willing to do that uh if alexi reaches a different conclusion and wants to propose an alternative way once he's had a look at it if anyone else wants to do the same we can do that but um that's okay i think at this point i'd propose we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "leave it with the editors to sort through what's there and um if we get more feedback about it from people who have committed to review then we'll we'll discuss that all right that's i think i think that's an excellent idea all right let's just let's do that and then continue this confirm on the list okay all right and please people who have stood up and said that they wanna um um that they are volunteering to review the current pull request or you know contribute other material let's try to get that done as quickly as possible so we can get the ball rolling yeah um one thing i'll mention is if you haven't please read the current draft because i think it's maybe i have an inflated opinion to myself but it's pretty clear and simple about how to do things which is important i think for the community and so then when we do add ip addresses we want to make sure that we don't lose that clarity and simplicity more than we have to okay i've got somebody at the queue is eric i think you want to talk about name constraints so maybe yeah just briefly i looked yesterday 5280 and it does define name constraints for ip addresses they're like other gaps with search and ip address that we someday will want to deal with um what name constraints at least does seem to be intuitive anyway but as somebody as i think you pointed out name constraints is a bigger ratio it's not covered at all right now yeah okay all right thank you that's it for for um your slots let's see here next on our agenda iot profile on this okay so i would like to talk about the update we made with o5 first i want to go through some of the changes that were made and then to point to a couple of the open"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "issues of which there are a number of them in the github repository of the working group next slide okay so the first one is so as you know in dls1.3 to use the serial rtd feature you have to come up with an application specific profile to describe how you deal with um sort of the needed uh replay protection and so in an earlier document we uh added that feature and also did um sort of discuss this and and announce it on the co-op list where it was actually uh debated and it turned out that the co-working group right now doesn't see interest in or need for the serial rtd feature in dls for some of their uses so um with that in mind we decided to take it out from this document actually park it into a separate specification that maybe just temporarily as or people are just happy with the way dls is because there are obviously some ups and downs of using the zero rtd feature uh so um that's where we are today at least uh so it's not like not gone forever but at least for now so that um makes the document shorter so that's a plus because there's a you need to define a couple of um additional co-op uh options to make that feature work okay the other one which is a little bit more tricky is um the recommendation on the um the domestic ecdsa which we sort of took over from uh the previous uh dls and dtls 1.2 iot recommendations as well as from what the the dls1.3 specification says so the recommendation there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "to use deterministic ecdsa and but then it seems that the sort of focus or the excitement has uh changed again in terms of that feature and there are obviously currently discussion in cfrc on um adding the noise or randomness back into the ecdsa function as i will as you will see on the next slide but uh the point here is that there are attacks and specifically exploiting the weakness that the uh that random number generation is of course a challenging topic on iot devices and non-iot devices specifically if you have access to those devices and you can mount fault injection attacks um of course iot devices are often you or the attacker often has physical access so those attacks would be applicable and even though we see a increase in sort of hardware based features for security including random number generation there is um at least the perception that those are not as good as they they could be uh which i don't want to quantify because it's uh obviously depends on from product or i'm sure that the features vary from product to product so i don't want to make a general statement but at least if you look at those attacks there are cases where devices have had um limited uh randomness in and obviously that when applied to uh some of the our protocols and also the the the signature mechanisms that causes problems what i personally on next slide um i struggle then with is to actually make good recommendations because uh even a protocol like dls uh there's so we need sources of randomness in various places and for example not just with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "ecdsa but also with the ephemera different helmet or with the um with the randomness that is sent around in a clientele sub-hello exchange but in my belief um if you don't have any randomness then you are set yourself up for problems but what should the recommendations be in that case and so uh thomas who is also working on the generic utah dls 1.3 recommendation document which is sort of separate from the iud recommendation there obviously there are some recommendations being made which are now sort of carried over to into this document so it's easy to write those document those recommendations in some sense it's another story to actually ex uh implement them in in real hardware and real software on iot devices but i think that's that's as much as as we can do at this point in time okay um thank you thanks to michael richardson uh i don't see him right now in the room but he has done a very detailed review in response to a presentation i gave at the iot ops meeting at the last idf and this is one that we addressed already it's one that concerns the use of intermediate ca versus subordinate ca which we were a little bit relaxed on on using the terminology from rc 49 49 so we addressed that one um as you will see later he had a couple of other reviews which we addressed already but he didn't indicate whether he is happy with them so we didn't um incorporate them into the documentary waiting for his uh final assessment before we are going to do that next slide okay so a few um open issues one is um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "what we call the feature disparity uh is and that was also discussed on the tls mailing list not just on the utah list is with certain features that were they are different between uh 1.2 and 1.3 which are kind of subtle for example on the slide this concerns the renegotiation which apparently some people used in dls 1.2 to [Music] check the certificate status at a later stage so the for long-lived tls connections they are apparently uh which are which are used in industrial iot networks they use that technique to find out whether the certificate is still valid using for example ocsb extensions carried inside that exchange or just triggering a certificate checking again um we went through the discussions on the dls list and tried to capture some of it in this issue that is linked here uh but it's not so easy to to really make a recommendation on what to do about some of those different features clearly renegotiation is done is is gone but should it should there be some some extensions being added back to dls um to enable some of those features or is the solution that has been used um actually not the right approach to begin with and that's uh specifically on that front the long-lived dls connections and using that the renegotiation feature to check the status of certificates is that actually the best way to do i'm not sure in either case um the dls extension is not something that we can incorporate or new extension incorporate into this uh document anyway and for the other one it's even if we make that recommendation ah the those who relied on that feature"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "previously are going to change their code to to make use of it um not entirely certain martin yeah honest have you um considered the use of the exported authenticators for this purpose actually no how would that work so it would require something at the application layer that you would essentially have one side uh challenge the other other side to to present an exported authenticator and you would that other side would then produce what is effectively a certificate and a signature using that certificate over something exported from the um various secrets and that would allow you to refresh your view of the currency of the certificate that was used on the connection maybe you don't need to provide a certificate you just provide the authenticator but okay that's recently that's a that's a uh interesting approach i don't think that was actually proposed on the list i went uh through the discussions and didn't don't think i saw that one uh it's probably worthwhile to explore but uh it was uh uh stephen fries from siemens who brought this up because uh he is working deeply on his industrial iot use cases and so uh i will definitely double check things yeah there's a number of things you can do that might help so the the re-keying that happens the key updates allow you to refresh keys and give you some degree of post compromise security but um this would allow you to refresh the credentials what you don't get is fresh entropy for the session so you don't get the ability to do another dippy helmet for instance that may actually be a feature from the iot perspective i don't know um so um yeah discuss it i don't know what the what the right answer is yeah there's probably a um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "it probably what we would need is um almost like a um problem statement with assumptions to find out like what specific attacks do we care about and and do we care about like uh like what keys are we expecting to double check whether they are compromised is it a long-term key is it something like if we do a key update for example clearly we wouldn't recognize whether the the certificates used in a mutual dls exchange have been compromised and and so on and so on and uh so so maybe maybe that's uh sounds like a good idea to actually use that um example as uh as a trigger to debate what exactly the requirements are yeah i think that's a good way to go about it yeah yeah i like that one more person in the queue behind martin i'm assuming about this yeah stef actually cool hey stefan hi hannes good to see you uh yeah just to shed some light on the requirements so uh the requirement goes back to to uh one of the tls usages that we have in power system automation and uh there it is a way that currently we used in the renegotiation feature in tls 1.2 to trigger the certificate as a certificate revocation check as hannah's mentioned and while switching over to tls version 1.3 we would basically offload that functionality to the application itself because there is no no trigger coming from the tls stack because renegotiation is no longer allowed in tls version 1.3 so that means that we basically have some kind of timer in the application and once the timer is up the certificate gets rechecked uh we can do the certificate we can do the the key update in tls 1.3 using the post handshake messages but the certificate check would still need to be done and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "in dls 1.3 we had the possibility to basically take the certificate that comes out of the handshake and then give it up to the application and the application can do the revocation check again now we essentially have to store the certificate in the application to ensure that after a certain time we can recheck the certificate regarding its revocation state so that was the basic requirement there and the requirement comes from the fact that once in a while uh the certificate for long i'm sorry the certificate for long-lived connection uh is required to be to be checked for the for its revocation state to ensure that it is still valid why is the sessions running thanks thanks jeff yeah that was good back on so in um we obviously have to victor do you want to uh victor de carney uh google i have a question for stefan actually uh why or rather what threats uh if you could explain on list or if not now uh do we want to know whether the certificate is expired given the sessions already established it'd be good to know what the actual reason is beyond just doing the thing we've been doing so we can't hear you um you're mute no no not not yet feels like a local mute rather than a now you're me taco muted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:05",
    "text": "test test test no nothing it just worked so that's mysterious it just worked yes no i think he's trying to get away not answering that question that's cheap stuff [Laughter] all right he could at least hear my choke that's good yeah yeah um stefan you you want to come back to this in in a minute or two and then you can or you can type it into the chat um honest has a few slides to go so yeah yeah so in any case uh regardless of what the conclusion is we need to sort of like say some i think we need to say something in a document uh and explain like uh for those who who have been using dls 1.2 what that means in 1.3 as they move over okay next one so this is the one i mentioned previously there were two items uh client certificate validation and also um sni hiding which are two separate issues waiting for uh michael's input won't go into those details so obviously in the item i would ping him during this week so hopefully he has some cyclers and the other one what one other issue or two other issues are related to profiling of timers that's something we did in the previous profile for 1.2 when we noticed that the use of dtls uh this is a dtls feature um the default recommendations for the timeouts were not really adequate for some of the uh iud networks specifically mesh networks which have a high latency and potentially high loss rate and so we we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "went through a long effort to sort of adjust those timers of course the 1.3 is a little different so um we have to figure out what the timers are and then uh also with the rrc sort of the uh the checking or the the document that we've been working on in the dls working group to do the um the the checking needed for the path validation for the connection id changes so of course anyone who has experience with using ddls and specifically 1.3 for some of those networks we're happy to hear your uh your experience okay that's it i think that's it all right so um we're looking at a couple more iterations before we're ready to shepherd um at least at least uh definitely one to address those comments as you like it's we're getting down to sort of coming to the end on this yeah okay so all right all right thank you all right um and that gets us to joe see if i can no i didn't want to share let's try that here we go back to syslog all right yes back to says slog again so um uh you can go to the next slide uh yeah this just is a document that uh uh chris and sean and i uh are working on the kind of summary here is uh this has recently been adopted as a working group item which is fantastic uh we're basically updating cipher suites and and transport protocol for for these various"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "uh rfcs and really what prompted this was uh the iec uh tc57 wg15 group uh was reusing was referencing these specs and the the specs reference some older cyber suites um and tls versions which they in order to be compliant with the specs they would have to implement the old things they don't want to do that obviously for for good reason um so we're kind of we we fixed up these particular problems in the zero zero draft um by specifying modern cipher suite to be used and uh and you know recent versions of tls including tls one three uh next slide um the uh only major change in uh uh the zero one draft is um around zero rtt um we decided uh that we shouldn't use zero rtt with um and we should be explicit about it with syslog syslog doesn't really have a replay protection um and in many cases zero rtt it's not really i don't we we didn't feel this would be a very widely used feature either because connections tend to be long-lived so we say must not use early data uh next slide so we've already published a zero one so we'd love to get some more review so folks if you could give us a little bit of review then we can take that to hopefully get working group last call soon yeah i mean there's it's fairly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "not a lot of complexity here so it should be possible right so can i get a like a indication race hands or hums or something from people who have back who have read this draft phone number can i get a few of you to like say yes i will review this so we can get um victor um on this right right that's good so we can get victor and hannes uh on the record having having volunteered to review that um sort of gets us that much closer to uh working group last call and like shepard that's very okay good right great that's it um which uh takes us it gets us to open mic for this meeting um and if nobody has anything um maybe something ben schwartz uh on the topic of ip address identities and certificates uh i i wanted to mention that the add working group has run into an interesting situation where it would be very convenient if there were a way to mint a certificate that claims uh all the ip addresses in a subnet so uh so that somebody who for example an isp that owns a wide ip range could have a certificate that says yes i am willing and able to terminate traffic for uh for all of the uh all of the identities and this all the ip address identities in this range"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "uh currently i think there's no way to spell that so anyway if anybody's interested in in talking about that that use case which is related to uh encrypted dns on ipv6 home gateways um talk to me and this is related to the the um public suffix licks list stuff right uh so the the motivation to briefly the the motivation is that uh the the add ddr mechanism uh if the if the home gateway's dns server is identified by a public address like a public ipv6 address as opposed to a link local address uh then the encrypted dns server must present a certificate that covers that ipv6 address and so if an isp wanted to operate an encrypted dns service for all of its users [Music] then in this configuration they would uh first of all uh per eric's comment that they would need some way in the sni to find out which ip address the client uh is trying to connect is trying to find a substitute for and secondly they would need separate certificates for for every single ip address of every single dns resolver and all of their customers home gateways instead of one big certificate that just says i claim the entire ip range anyway this is not something that's possible today it would be an entirely new identifier format for x509 victor yes uh hi victor mccartney i have a question i guess for for the working group in terms of where to propose something uh i'd like to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "i think having possibly an extension for a tls client to tell the server to solicit its certificate uh because as we know tls client certificates are optional if the server doesn't ask for them the client can't present them and yet some servers for interoperability reasons prefer not to ask for them by default if a client knows that it is desirable to present a certificate but the server is likely not to solicit them by default uh there could be a need for a message for a client to say hi i have a certificate in in the client hello or somewhere early on without disclosing much detail about it because but privacy issues until it goes into certificate extensions in tls103 and is encrypted uh so i'd like there to be an early message uh to say please grab my certificate i'm interested for this in email where i could do it in an esmtp hello but it kind of seems like the wrong layer should i take this to the tls working group to utah should i just do it in the esmtp which unasks the question but kind of does it at the wrong layer any thoughts or comments it's a perfect question to bounce right over to our ad yes you were hoping not to be involved today so i have sad news for you i'm not the cognizant ad i'm just a spectator oh man i'm sorry damn it but if we repeat it i'm happy to sorry so right so the question is where does where do where do extensions to tls go that could be applicable to specific application domains um yeah right i mean that would be exactly kind of my first question i would have to take i mean i think i would but the responsibility would have to take a look at the charter in this working group would make sense well i i think it makes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "sense for it to be here but also it makes sense for it to be in a bunch of other places absolutely i mean i think it's hard to have a universal answer to that yeah would be my personal opinion i was just going to say there's nothing stopping someone in any working group here or even groups outside of the ietf from defining tls extensions that's not the problem the problem i think would be the charter of this group which i think probably maybe doesn't include the ability to do that without a rechartering but if this is the right place to do it i think we should just tweak the charter and make it happen personal opinion i've always understood this working group to be kind of a catch-all a last resort there's no place else to do it there's clearly a pile of expertise here let's leverage that expertise for expediency yeah certainly a group that had had a life expectancy far beyond sort of the initial set of best practice documents that i think people were envisioning uh i i would encourage you to write something up uh draft up and presented and we can talk about that option here or in the whatever working group makes sense so i i you know personally i think it sounds interesting too all right going oh oh mark well martin is on the queue but i think he you were yeah so last call for open mic time going once going twice all right see you in london bye-bye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:41",
    "text": "this was more like a security issues uh all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "there's"
  }
]
