[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:42",
    "text": "good afternoon welcome to ATF 100 this is the Gro working group beating what Oh 101 even says on the slide in front of me the 101 thigh ETF has commenced you\u0027re in the grow meeting if you\u0027re not here for grow you could stay and enjoy it where you could go to where you\u0027re supposed to be and not be late too late before we go much further we need to start thinking about a jabber scribe and a note taker so think of you\u0027d like to do that well I flipped through the next two slides there\u0027s a note well I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen it before next time I\u0027ll make the font smaller somebody told us probably three meetings ago at this point that we\u0027re supposed to remind you if there\u0027s IPR on the draft that you\u0027re working on that you should keep that in mind and then tell the chairs when it goes up work your last call so we can inform the right people whoever those are that there\u0027s IPR claims okay there\u0027s a whole bunch of resources again I\u0027ll make that smaller next time so it\u0027s more visible the jabber room where we need a jabber scribe who\u0027s the jabber scribe aha John is the jabber scribe and that\u0027s that\u0027s the clearly the wrong agenda yes sir I\u0027ll fix that when we\u0027re done also the audio is wrong great I\u0027ll fix all those numbers later I should have search to replace a little better sadly said does not work in pity PDFs they\u0027re blue sheets hopefully everybody has had a blue sheet go by them if not make sure to sign it when you go through it make sure we get the right size room and that when legal problems happen they can tell you were in here not colluding or something Deborah scribe is John who\u0027s the minutes taker it\u0027s thicker who wants to take minutes can\u0027t really go any further without minister yes I have fallen to her max from ripe ncc esta minutes taker excellent so you for the minutes taker you can take them in your own thing if you like you can use the crazy web enabled cloud thing on on the I recommend notepad do that then just email yo abhorred grotesque chairs at the end as much as you can get down as good don\u0027t kill yourself have an agenda oh I forgot before we go to the agenda we have three chairs up here because one decided to leave Peter\u0027s leaving let\u0027s go to other things not working group chairs though and then job is taking over which is why the beginning says goodbye Peter so Peter wanted to go stand over here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:42",
    "text": "Peter has eternal youth but from an appearance point of view but he\u0027s been doing this for 10 years which is very impressive so I would like to ask you for an applause for his dedication all right so job I think use only volunteer that\u0027s not true but job is taking my place and so I hand off the microphone to you good luck my condolences thank you Peter so we\u0027re gonna start this this meeting we\u0027re gonna start with BMP Paulo in the room it\u0027s not too big to fit in here yes all right so this is Paulo which anta entity we wanted to give together with Serbia and Tim an update on these two drafts about BMP so Loch Raven utter about so what is the current state of BMP is that we can get information about a tree being pre and post policies and this is maybe felt it was felt a little bit maybe incomplete or you know it could be augmented and so you see the red arrows over there one here one here and one here so we would like to complement the existing work of a tree being with la creme and other about pre and post policies giving the five main vantage point to get bgp information so and with this I\u0027m just repeating what we already presented in Chicago last year so I wanted to do a recap of what are the differences between we went from zero version to version one of the two drafts and so I want to just highlight what are the difference between zero and one in both so the first thing is that as you see we are we added a text saying that we have a new pure type so that we are saying that the new pure type is la crÃªpe and this is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:44",
    "text": "clarification only it was already in the zero draft and we are we have added just this little text to you know in green here to say that we also let\u0027s say added this other you know clarification here saying that you know we have an F flag in so a little bit of clarification about you know what would be you know lockrey but and also what should be in there and that we have an F flag meaning filtered and then essentially saying that you know what is the role of the F flag in there then essentially we have you know third modification here in which we have you know a TLV so we were already saying that there is in the peer of an optional TLV in which we could say what is the VAR f so the name of arrive for example and essentially what we are saying here is that you know to in order you know we can add the same information to the peer down the motivation for this is just to try to reduce the state so we have some implementation I did myself implementation in PMC City of these two drafts and what I\u0027m trying to do is you know to try to reduce the amount of correlations that you have to do between you know keeping an original state from the pure all the way in order to you know decode or in order to you know present information later in the you know in the BGP Sasha so I forgot to say that also this text that I was mentioning before is a clarification only Indian and this is you know a little text to try to reduce state passing to the other about we also add three modifications also this one is you know just a clarification only essentially here we have we are just saying that we have you know the El flag should be sad you know always in order to indicate that you know information is post policy and plus the thing that you know if we have a post policy kind so we are other about post policy we should you know represent how things are actually sent to the pier right so it\u0027s just a clarification but it\u0027s a but it\u0027s very important so what we find on the wire we should find it in this message and also here we have another clarification only in which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:44",
    "text": "essentially what we say is that we you know we have big text text over there just to say that you know how to say that so again so we have the El flag to say that you know we should indicate it should be set to zero because you know it\u0027s a to indicate that it\u0027s pre policy and then you know we have all that thing over there and and then the last you know here the last modification to the draft is that we have this new optional element again it\u0027s a you know TLV for the pier up and this is and nothing else that the good old strategy that you know with one level of inference you can you know achieve many things in life and so essentially what we say over here is that you know what is a peer group or an update group is something that is a vendor-specific and so we you know we want to allow you know htlv which is a free-form utf8 in which you can specify a label for the you know for the actual you know group and so for the actual update that we are receiving and why is that is because you know there is a further a lot of text that i didn\u0027t report because it all all revolves around this very specific topic in which essentially what we say is that you know there is the temptation of you know send over to a BMP station only you know the peer group and not the different updates for you know that are sent to the single individual you know bgp speakers so essentially yeah what we want to represent here is just labeled for for you know that group of update messages and this is some feedback that we received in chicago you know to try to limit the chatting a sort of verbosity of you know of BMP on our about and essentially we took care of that you know with this you know with that with this countermeasure and that\u0027s it so essentially should i summarize you know beyond just the changes to the draft so what we have here is that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:44",
    "text": "got two set of comments so to the draft so once that it\u0027s a you know need at work so it seems there is a kind of you know feedback that this is you know something useful that we are doing and the second is that we you know received little feedback in sense of you know what needs to be done whether you know these things that are missing and whatever so we feel that we addressed all the comments we received so far but you know I would like to encourage people if there is any further feedback thanks so much any questions from the room for Paulo or the co-authors yes there\u0027s time for questions even for Whittaker style questions Randy Bush while like and support these intellectually we have a serious problem in DMP both in implementation from the vendor\u0027s with massive suckage and with weak deployment probably do significant part to the offenders but weak deployment in the community I\u0027m worried that adding more for the weak vendors will not improve things and and I do like these it\u0027s just yes yes first of all thanks very much for liking this I mean first of all first of all thanks very much for liking this work so that\u0027s the most important and that I actually share your concern as well that comes from the deployment right overly evoke Deutsche Telekom just like Randy I don\u0027t have really questions but I would like to point out gaps that I am seeing in the overall picture if you can go to your graph graph on the yes/no note once once while once further back think the first graph well okay not not not quite sure the what I observe as missing and what I would like to do with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:44",
    "text": "this kind of stuff is exactly the information that is dropped between what I can get from the RIP in the NP and the oops the post and we post the post policy so you mean in between here and this no yes exactly exactly exactly because because it is actually really interesting to know which routes are dropped and well okay it would be even more interested to know which which of my many policy decisions to detect garbage yes you clicked yes so I sorry yeah and kind of that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s not available in this picture and if I could get that classification somehow out of a BMP I could could work on that with central monitoring for vendors that actually maintain the rib in which not all do all the time could actually just do something and say well okay add an optional exit or drop code to the RIP in and collect that separately but the benefits of of centralized monitoring goes away and for those vendors that decide that memory is really scarce and sometimes they make it actually scarce that do not maintain the room in really the information is completely lost and kind of adding to the cover to the policy languages an optional exit or drop code what we would seem to be very easy and having one drop reason recorded and available easily but I think helped a lot because it would be really nice if my ops people have an easy way Malka to report to my customers and peers what specific kind of crap they are sending thanks very much for the comment so i i i i tell you this i mean i was i have been doing quite some work with the pre and post policy myself really using it in practice right and of course the maximum I could go with the BMP was just doing the validation exercise which is like I have pre policy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:45",
    "text": "I have expectations and I have post policy and then I see whether the post policy matches my expectations or not so I do what you are saying is to go the next level and with the already getting in BMP some code or something like you know what is dropped by what or what is passing due to which policy or whatever to be honest with you I I understand that I feel this is a little bit out of scope of this work and especially because I think that we go a little bit in Greenland already policies are dreamland for what is standardization and uh but yeah I take your comment yeah I understand so this would perhaps be work for a fourth draft so we have Ripon repeal with local and then dropped PIB sorry because within an existing Beach BMP stream you could we could add yet another rip thing yes or figure out figure out ways to tweak that classification into the immediate rip makes things complicated the way I assume the implementations are done you see my a my concern and I agree with you yup that whatever we should do in this area should be something separate and out of these drafts my concern is just that you know when you go into the policies you know area and trying to determine you know what is going on or you try to find a common language across vendors to describe what what is going on like even trying to find a single code for different policy language kind of kind of kind of very simple just just give me like in the usual programming and shell script shell script languages just give me an optional an optional programmer defined exit code and I make I figure out I figure out how I do the code assignments and interpret them that\u0027s that\u0027s that looks fairly easy and we don\u0027t need more than 32 bits probably 16 would be fine my favorite even my policies are not that sophisticated yeah jeffires so I I did have some other conversation with Ruettiger about this you know and exactly the same responses you do the the the thing I do sort of great after our discussions is we probably can\u0027t standardize everything and it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:46",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t even make sense to try what would be useful potentially is allowing for you know that extra 32-bit annotation something else it in most implementations you know the cost is understood this is IETF LAN we can take a piece of the code space and carve out a well-known no set of exit fields that people can put their policy languages for very common situations no this is a good thing and we could also leave plenty of space for people to put in their own exit codes and annotations for their own internal purposes and they would be internal and sadly based on how this stuff would likely be now per router that means that provisioning has to ensure the consistency that\u0027s a headache but you know this is a way to give this type of functionality without having to say we\u0027re going to allow completely abstract utf-8 strings of everything they\u0027re good yeah I am totally with you on that yeah fantastic all right Thank You Paula if Randy bush could be so kind to come forward and enlighten us on wkc behavior so our good friend Jay borkenhagen noticed something strange and a bunch of us got dragged in they come when you say set community x 17 1997 says you can modify the communities and all of them provide this set community thing which we think means remove all communities and replace with this new one or set of new ones the syntax for different vendors differ but what excuse if we just call it set all but one vendor replace all communities that one vendor replaces all the communities including some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:47",
    "text": "well-known communities but not others these are just the well-known and the green ones they delete and the pink ones they don\u0027t okay so you have to know that and take a tweezers and remove those if you want them God okay so where are we now and what do we do we try to figure out how to push a button okay so if you don\u0027t know this is happening you maybe not advertising the communities that you mean to advertise and you may be advertising communities that you didn\u0027t want to advertise so what would we recommend should we tell the vendor in particular oh by the way we\u0027ve now got four or five vendors there\u0027s only one so far who has this unique behavior so should we tell that vendor that\u0027s a bug or have operator their operators out there who have become billing Li or unknowingly dependent on it okay so that\u0027s an item for discussion on this draft that we all have to consider okay currently we didn\u0027t feel confident enough that we wanted to say change the behavior don\u0027t look at me so astonished Ruettiger it could you could be relying on it without knowing it did you know this was happening to you in German in German and German there\u0027s a nice way of saying yes and no in the same word I was surprised when at the Chicago IETF at a nice dinner vendor engineer was telling me about very surprising behavior but let me fro let me throw one question at you you are you are talking about a different treatment of well-known communities and differently colored well-known communities actually the repertoire of well-known communities actually actually is an interesting thing at the Irish countryside I ATF we then ID our chair "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:54",
    "text": "declared that thinking about how well-known communities were defined in the first bgp RFC\u0027s there cannot be more and recently our test steam came back to me reporting about strange behaviors from of well-known communities that I wasn\u0027t aware and well-known in Ireland kind of has been lost as historical memory to large parts of a community and they are recycling the same name for stuff that is not the same and so the question of what are the well-known community yeah what is is er stuff actually a well-known community it is called a well-known community shall we start another draft so we would very much appreciate it if vendors would share their behavior so we can update the VAT document okay yeah for the sharing partners actually the interesting question excuse the California yeah well the question is did we ever find any note about this behavior in the documentation I don\u0027t remember seeing that we secondly would like to say we\u0027re new well-known communities whatever the heck we mean by well-known are defined the set syntax should treat them as they do the other communities and delete them or in other words well okay you cannot change the behavior of your system with new software versions that know more stuff because the behavior of the of the network elements in your network become inconsistent no this would this would leave it as unsurprising in other words when John adds new well-known community and his set command deletes it then it will be as today yes that\u0027s right that\u0027s all we\u0027re suggesting can we not just deprecated the set command will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:55",
    "text": "deprecated the adv yeah well okay kind of a kind of kind of what we need to do to deal with this in our configure a policy configuration generators we have to replace the single line that says set by a delete and Vasantha set and we are done exactly what I\u0027m saying you easy saying that no I think what ridiger was saying is he wants to add a delete or command exactly I want to specifically doll wellokay it I would guess it is available it may look very weird delete with some interesting wildcards and regular expressions and strange symbolic names so I jokingly brought up the deprecation but if I look at entities conflicts we are using set less and less because of graceful shutdown and we don\u0027t want to stomp on graceful shutdown community and to meter this went off so can I just I think check this is where are we interested in this or is this just a bug of one vendor beyond that if we\u0027re going to start redesigning communities and the semantics we attach two commands of them I\u0027m not sure this is the place and this probably is not the Internet draft to do it and now other people are welcome to burn the rest of our time jeff has so I think you need to ask i Anna why it\u0027s register is well-known I think this is one of those cases where they named a registry based off of a piece of the document and there\u0027s not a proprietary from the document so vendors did this partially because I Anna had this Ayanna had this because of lack of paperwork let\u0027s not go down the subject of what\u0027s well-known that says I\u0027m trying to isolate this from a long primrose path who he is there are there people here that feel that considering this a bug is inappropriate in other words that significant people will be hurt if the behavior is changed for that deletion of some well-known communities "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:58",
    "text": "that\u0027s a binary question it kind of kind of I think I remember other bucks were that had been around for decades and actually cleaning up and offering a clean policy language for the buck happened very late and kind of the buck was left in place for those who relied on it John final comments John\u0027s gutter so I actually have read the draft I get to say that at least once during this meeting and I actually am totally fine with it it fixes one thing which is obviously vexing and I think go ahead with that and do not try to specify a complete world peace to be clear for those people who don\u0027t the draft suggests leave the bug in place don\u0027t add more to it Thank You Randy one suggestion for enhancing the draft would be ask the vendor for the appropriate delete commands to be used we shall continue this discussion on the mailing list different topic I are an RPI and I mostly approaching the topics that come up in this presentation from a provisioning perspective this is not meant as a BGP sec replacement or to stir up discussions in that regard what I want to talk about is creating some parity between the features available in the IR and in the RPI namely there\u0027s some pieces that are lacking in the RPI if we improve them that it will make my life easier in terms of provisioning and it will enable a certain region of our world where IRR never took off but our I definitely is taking off in South America and operationally speaking we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:58",
    "text": "are struggling in that region of the world because of the lack of a SS equivalents in RPG i\u0027ma so let\u0027s quickly go through what IR s and then we\u0027ll build comparisons to what RPG is and then we can go from there the Adam after IRR is the route object and the route object is basically a tuple of a prefix and an authorized origin I won\u0027t go into how we measure authorized because there\u0027s many different databases with many different rules but in a nutshell these two data elements are the most important ones then I can query a so-called IRR D IRR daemon I can issue it a command say give me the list of prefixes where this originated n appears and then I get back data and that data can either be represented in the raw form as you see here or it can be easily converted into a vendor specific CLI construct and basically this is what goes into the provisioning system and it\u0027s deployed on routers on the ebgp sessions so to a point there\u0027s a similarity in our PGI because rpki UF in a row now you have the prefix and origin and the nice thing about rpki is that the data is of higher quality than IR so in comparison you can inspect the role as the repositories you\u0027ll see lists of a essence and lists of prefixes and that reminds us of the route object and you can very easily use simple one-liners to obtain similar data and transpose that into your vendor specific routing convicts so so far so good we have the route object in IR we have Roja in our PGI what we also have in IR is a thing called a SS not to be confused with a s underscore sets entirely different thing and you can see that two very different groups of people worked on this material and did not communicate with each other but what we see here is an example of my own asset we can query the the Whois server at our that entity donates we we ask it for s on 5 5 6 2 : air Snyder\u0027s and we get back this block of text and this is a bit grind to parse fortunately you can ask it in a different way here we have to easy to remember commands exclamation mark is1 5 5 6 2 : Snyder\u0027s comma 1 for recursion and it gives back a list of all the assets that in this particular context mean my downstreams to further visualize what an IAS set looks like I\u0027ve wrote a small "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:58",
    "text": "open source tool IRR tree you can find it on get up and it will visualize how a s sets expands and how the inclusion or recursive inclusion is visualized so to build filters today we take an AS set we expand the s set into a s numbers and then for each a s number we do a reverse key lookup to get the list of prefixes then the list of prefixes that is the totality of all those commands is deduplicated perhaps aggregated in some way perhaps we prune bogans or other things from it and that\u0027s installed into the routers now a challenge with a s sets today is what if the same AR set name exists in multiple IRR databases and a great example is - death stealth which exists in both the right database and the RA DB database but those objects with the same name are not managed by the same organization in fact they have absolutely nothing to do with each other another challenge we see with a SS is how do you discover which is set to use and also how throughout the lifetime of the relation with the Pierre accustomed can appear or customer inform us that they are renaming for whatever reason so what what happens today and this is what entity does on the surface order forms we ask people to write down the ASL and then the engineer will use that email the customer a prefix filter and ask is do you think this is roughly correct and then the customer says yes or no and perhaps we need to tweak the order in which we are searching through the IR databases to to make it more appropriate in the case of duplicate names another common method perhaps becoming the most common method at this point in time is to look at peering to be and then the method that the IR people originally envisioned namely the import and export lines is used by virtually nobody so there is a challenge here and another challenge is that even if today you don\u0027t have duplicates in your set name it could appear tomorrow and that\u0027s hard to track so a lot of Route servers will query appearing to be per ASM and then per ASM look at a fuel called IRR records and then they hope something possible is there and and it\u0027s it\u0027s all of it is really a best effort thing and with peering to be we have informal guarantees that the AAS holder is the one that put that data there but I say informal there is no cryptographic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:59",
    "text": "verification that the owner actually put that data there so this is my wishlist and this is the starting point of what I hope will become an extension to our PGI I want something that is that will make my discovery life easier given a ASM I should be able to programmatically find the appropriate list of a essence of downstreams that that ASM wants to announce to me in in context of provisioning or perhaps peering I want guarantees that the owner of the ASM is actually the one that put that data there with the IR we have no such guarantees anybody can put anything there preferably this should be unilateral declarations there has been work in the past about adjacency attestations where both sides can confirm that they have a BGP session with each other and I think one of the beauties with air sets is that and this this is sometimes worse is better but organizations that try to do their best try to document appropriately in in a public registry what they intend to announce should that life should be made easy and if we make a system that strictly depends on all parties involved acknowledging an attestation that may lead to operational complexity and I won\u0027t / adjacent ASM granularity because the list of downstream areas ends 155 62 may announce to mgt can be different than what I announced to say GTT or Tilia so in the discovery mechanism entity should be able to find a list that is appropriate for entity and likewise for our competitors so to that effect we Max and I are trying to work on something called a s combs because we envision the code the downs the list of downstream sort of is a cone in that particular direction this is very Rather\u0027s it\u0027s not yet even ready for simple draft publication but now I would like to open the floor and hear your thoughts on where to go from here how about yolk this is George from AG Teaneck hello George I don\u0027t play a router configurator either in real life all my dreams so I have no ability to talk to the semantics intent of what you are doing you are trying to say what the meaning would be on provisioning or routing I can\u0027t speak to that because it\u0027s not my competency but I do think there is a moment in what you are saying here that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "is interesting you said provisioning so that\u0027s a clear statement you have a not an intent in your mind and I like that I think when you talk about rpki and you talked about modifying I have said that you are looking to register and this is my belief I believe that you are looking to register a defined object type to get the OID assigned to legitimate use of rpki because admission in rpki signing demands an OID be given and understood to be in the litany of objects expected in registry so they can be constrained and understood so you\u0027re not asking to modify our PKI you\u0027re asking for an OID there our definition of an object and the last observation is the critical moment in a I believe the critical moment in the definition of signed objects in a cryptosystem is who signs and what should be in the certificate so the intentionality of which a s which a s is plural have to assert ownership and permission has to be explicit in what you\u0027re saying and that is the end of what I wanted to say thank you for your presentation I thought that was great thank you for the feedback your folk doctor Telecom before I get to the really negative side let me let me let me say yes it\u0027s absolutely correct to point out that a assets are currently very much used and they are a concept that does not appear within the rpki context and it appears obviously and the old are PSL and yes for making progress identifying the gaps in functionality that are with the probably future minded systems of course is important so that the gaps can be filled but for the whole presentation I would like to point out that there is a big difference between authorization and policy documentation the whole point of the rpki is to provide clean authorization the point of our PSL was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:04",
    "text": "policy documentation and while okay now 20 years ago this was done and some not so lucky design decisions happened amongst the design decisions there was that well okay authorization is not really part of it for those parties for those databases that wanted to do it there was an arc there was an authorization scheme and only a few of the wretches routing registries actually deployed that it is I think a really bad idea to promote now to see the IRR as an authorization database which it isn\u0027t for the large majority of the servers and the data sources and try to fix that while we actually have a fairly well-defined and well thought out of rosacea system the a s sets when when when we are looking at it with the question well okay is that documentation or authorization the a s sets within our PSL are quite certainly one of the objects that cannot have any authorization except that you know who is the maintainer and only the maintainer can fiddle with it but the references that you put in there are essentially uncontrolled and when I look at what a s sets my customers give me I\u0027m seeing CREP collect recursively trap crap crap hmm and I wouldn\u0027t I wouldn\u0027t see I wouldn\u0027t see how you change that where doesn\u0027t and that needs to that needs to be fixed when when we when we when we when we go forward and find and find kind of the next generation construct for it and yeah well okay I think I said enough for this time next time I know Jeff has rigor said at least one thing that I wanted to say which is sets are nice rpki "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:06",
    "text": "that gives an idea of sort of greater legitimacy than a a set did in our PSL so I agree with this point for your wishlist sets are useful if such a thing existed in rpki this is this allows you to say I as a party that is publicly telling everybody in a traceable way which is the property that would happen out of this say I\u0027m using these things Riddler\u0027s point being no people can change the stuff behind the scenes and the recursive expansion becomes greater or smaller than you expect be careful about what you wish for because in our PKI you could say here is the set of objects at a given oh i D for a given revision that I\u0027m you know choosing to include in this set which may have expired you know so you could do these things with a lot more force than you could have done in our PSL but I don\u0027t think you truly mean that so it is useful you could do it and to some extent I\u0027ll point out the same thing that you\u0027re looking for and one of your points about what I\u0027m choosing to announce which is partially what you\u0027re trying to use for is very much there are PSL export statement and that recursive expansion through different peoples customer cones becomes gross very very fast I\u0027m fully aware yeah just it\u0027s one of those I would harder than even that\u0027s terrible aspect is still better than nothing and so what I\u0027m arguing is that if we end up with a same thing as a SS and we only addressed that we know the owner of the SN published a list and that there are globally unique that\u0027s already would be a huge win for me I find that useful I if we can improve upon this that\u0027d be great I would similarly suggest that the export list that you have out of other RPS objects does not get included in that object so keep the ideas separate you\u0027re good but the last related thing is even in our PSL you know the headache you had of you distinct naming you can actually as part of your exclamation mark syntax restrict the sets of databases that are used in your query expansion this is going to be very similar rpki because the implicit behavior here that your trust anchor set is what\u0027s defining it correct let me ask if I say here\u0027s a set of a s is a set of a set which contains a SS and other sets recursively what authority am i "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:10",
    "text": "asserting over those objects Jack great question the the RPI is about authority I think people were saying slightly longer sentences that I\u0027m capable of but if you don\u0027t have an authority model then let\u0027s go to the next subject in summary what I face is that in parts of the world there is no IRR there is rpki so something something in that direction IRAs set addict\u0027s before you were using BGP ok we understand we understand your need grant sympathize with it but we\u0027re just worried about square peg round hole form a to understand the shape of the peg and how it fits in the hole and when I asked a question I got that\u0027s a good question so well since the a via sets and by the way actually there is a very limited way of having authorized a SL but that\u0027s extremely limited and obviously only works were obvious as is deployed since the a s sets actually as far as we can tell have no anchoring in an authorization it doesn\u0027t matter in which I are are we advise the Latin American folks to register the SS kind of when I have a customer out of that region ok the least least common denominator that usually shows up is our a DB and I\u0027m happy I\u0027m happy I\u0027m happy to use that thing as that is available hmm and about everyone outside of Europe at some point in time uses it and yes I know there\u0027s crap I know the authorization rules the three ones they are are kind of really open for any crap you want if you want to pay a certain amount of dollars and while okay that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:16",
    "text": "can be used finding finding actually a good block to close that function will get obviously would be a nicer thing but I\u0027m kind of kind of my closest my closest approximation of what could be done in the rpki context that is consistent with it is a sin is essentially the adjacency assertions which are not going to be very practically helpful because that would mean that any small leaf site will have to join in and do their certificate so that you can use it and we both know there are customers that are not going to do that and they are far below and doing a proxy doing proxy registrations like many of many operators are doing for customers in the irr is not is not really an option in rpki it sounds like maybe we should be discussing this on my mailing list we do have one last presentation it\u0027s super short so I think I hate to I I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t realize it was actually eight thirteen or six thirty nine so I thought there was more time I I would like to cut the thread off and we can talk about it on the mailing list I think if you\u0027re something really quick well while gender comes up gets ready is at least in the case of Roiz right the prefix holder has no authority over the ASN it\u0027s just a slot sign declaration so the holder of an AAS certificate yes did you really sign a declaration about something else we\u0027re discussing authority hierarchies or something it doesn\u0027t exist in a row either thank you so my name is Alexandra Asimov out from karate labs and I will try to be very very fast so there is common ground spoofing IP spoofing is bad and for a lot of reasons your pay is not on fly so simplifying the problem if we are speaking about feasible model of Europe F if according to the traffic engineering purposes ISP announces prefix only in one direction enabling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:19",
    "text": "your pear phone at level of other upstream will just drop a little legitimate traffic I hope it\u0027s clear and for years the reason there was no solution for the situation but recently it has changed and it has changed with graceful shutdown community so now if this ice P will announce this the same prefix to provide to provide a be marking it with visual shutdown community and no expert and I was also told that no expert is not needed here so graceful shutdown community may be quite enough provided B may enable UPF without any consequences and risks to traffic of course it will it\u0027s not a general solution it still is not working for transit ice piece but it\u0027s working for starett an own system so they do not do have only providers peers and so on what can I say is a summary these we all we have all parts of the solution already in RFC we do not need to ship updated software if we assume that we already have ratios a graceful shutdown community at the same time we are allowed the usage of these well-known community that\u0027s all thank you Frank creates questions could you go back one slide please Charlie Bush you\u0027re asking that customer to give special to go through the effort of changing their configuration to add special communities to send to provider me if they\u0027re going to do that why the hell don\u0027t they just implement pcp 38 you are still asking your customers to create your root objects why are you asking them if you believe that your customer is capable of to do the right things there is no need in the root objects I say it\u0027s we can believe to our customer this is the all about how to help assist guarantee the spoof traffic will not go outside of customer network likewise we are treating root or root objects in hijacks I think we actually aren\u0027t successful to make customers like this if they come with our own address space to do the to do V root objects themselves but asking them to fiddle special policy into the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:20",
    "text": "BGP I think we would be less successful so I somewhat agree with Randi let me also since we were talking about communities classified graceful shutdown that is a next-generation well-known community which is where you cannot tell whether the recipient actually will honor the semantics it is just a hint okay still it\u0027s a technical I\u0027m while no export is first-generation and you are supposed to actually honor than semantics okay okay it\u0027s a good point about the the well-known communities it or what some interesting things are happening there especially in implementations still this is the technical opportunity to fix a significant problem and if you\u0027re we remember the recent DDoS attacks including memcache okay part of it a part of these attack was corrupted services and part of it was about unity to spoof traffic if we are able to fix both of them it\u0027s okay if we were able to fix one part of this front of the problem it\u0027s also ok job Snider\u0027s entity i would like to repeat a comment from our earlier conversation while I think the trick of using graceful shutdown is clever to signal to increase the chances of signalling feasible paths my main challenge remains finding equipment that can do you RPF at a reasonable speed at all and this strikes me as solving like two or three percent of an issue whereas my 90 percent of the issue is packet circulation through the fabric and Europe EF cutting that in half or similarly that that I cannot skill access lists large enough for all the potential source addresses so until that is solved somehow where my PPS count is no longer chopped in half I cannot I\u0027m not even looking at this okay one more question no yeah Warren Kumari with no hats other than like maybe a dunce one because I\u0027m feeling really feeling really stupid so the graceful shutdown thing says that blah blah blah this policy tags are parts received other session of the next one down yeah and sets local press to a low value so basically you\u0027re just announcing the prefix and saying please set local pressure on here so you\u0027re just announcing the prefix that way right yes sure okay Ranger these just gives a provider be an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:21",
    "text": "alternative route to to customer so it\u0027s just it\u0027s just like an informational message I have these other space it\u0027s available so the please do not informational messages here\u0027s a route no export tells provider be not to send it upstream slow the graceful shutdown tells provider not to send their traffic that way that\u0027s all yeah except II I she said that he said that he didn\u0027t need the no export I think you do don\u0027t need no if probably be has full table each should read should finally receive the route from provider a let\u0027s say we will get it to upstream or will cause them to prefer that so no expert series just additional guarantee I think I think I think one could even use the more drastic thing that says don\u0027t tell even your internal neighbors yeah okay now actually actually if you want to play the trick that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s really the nice way because there is no use for that for that route if it has not to be used Montgomery if the no export thing is there you have no intention or hope that someone upstream would be yes it is just to be able to beat to build to enable your pair at level of directly connected stop network to transit network the the solution this solution can be applied for connection between transits in other words this only applies to stop networks yes it\u0027s only applies to 85% of networks for other if you are the 15 P sensor it\u0027s not working but still it\u0027s safe that may save the day but also cause source packets to be routed to some upstream the sorry to be dropped by some upstream lathy so the idea that\u0027s the packet with the Pickers there will be futures it\u0027s the level of directly connected upstream so they will not be propagated like was there the previous so the this is so I understand that\u0027s the goal but you\u0027re you\u0027re also assuming that no one would ever perfect perform you RPF on something that wasn\u0027t a stub okay this is just if i go to your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:21",
    "text": "question right so this just as the assumption that if somebody was not previously using your pay if it\u0027s the transit you will not enable your benefit that is the level of transit so for for transit i speech nothing\u0027s check the connection between transits nothing is changing other otherwise is if we should so basically as far as I understand the your fifth problem is that BGP is a routing protocol was the idea was to use it as in delivering informational messages this sound network is available through these interface it was not working and it in general way way it is not work still not working the the other option is to for example create some other Safi and propagate the information about availability but it this this way is is a deadlock maybe it\u0027s a mathematical perfect solution but it will never be shipped anywhere so I\u0027m gonna cut in here we\u0027re out of time for this session what I would suggest is that we further explore the upsides and downsides of this idea via demanding lists thank you for your presentation thank you for giving me this love and dear grow attendees thank you very much for your time see you in the next ITF "
  }
]