[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:51",
    "text": "as minutes yeah I have full agenda first Earth Day and also Wednesday and I leave certain certain I have been here since last was so yeah it\u0027s already there was a workshop last week the way with amount of Canadian professors yeah not quickly we will pronounce a the distress lights when we can start it so let\u0027s go sometime yeah most of us it\u0027s almost 20 years thank weeks that that much different I already feel my my I say get fit okay it\u0027s 10 o\u0027clock so somebody at Pike could close they at all all right thank you right yeah welcome of you this is the animal working group automata networking integrated model and approach so if you having in the wrong room still have time to get out next page that\u0027s so which part so this is you say not will I guess of you should already see it several times this week so but that\u0027s still what you should behave according to the ITF everybody should pay extension yeah we hand over the blue sheets around make sure you\u0027re signed before you leave the room and we\u0027ll each job square per anybody you want here for you cheaper thank you thank you Mike and the waited minutes taker anybody the world here thanks be you has always so nice both of you and we have the remote participation online and all the slides already uploaded online so people can check it over afterwards and the meninist is animal ITF oh that\u0027s a mistake "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:52",
    "text": "put out here for there somehow that\u0027s basically the ministry is one of the official working place people should to make discussion there actually the cheers will you know make some information out of the Middle East discussing and the face to face meeting here is just you know basically use our time here will based on what we already make the congestion makes a disgusting animal honest and this is chaired by meshing and the terrorist okay and okay this is the main agenda we have a group - and we have a working group document update for this time we applied to sessions so the morning session is for the almost everything but pretty relevant stuff so the afternoon session we have 90 minutes that\u0027s for risky and we should go first for the working group document we have ASAP automated country plan update and grasp API update then we give the progress report our recharge progress but here then I actually move the last item the at Monaco set up of fog monitoring agent to the just after the recharter program we caught that\u0027s because cassia has to live earlier for another working group hopefully the other speakers done comparable yes then we have the information distribution and the guidance for a ASA and transfer Pak date of over and quest then we have the Sonora comments for a year to a city or town bad brand okay this is the agenda for the morning anybody has any issue a month price go this is a kindle afternoon we have all the a risky relevant draft including risky itself for update and also the constraint the vulture updates twelve them working group draft already and we have constant "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:54",
    "text": "joint put proxy for risky protocols Peter I didn\u0027t have your slides yet no somehow you said please to priest to send it again thank you and we have support of instinct relies enjoyment in press key and the SME integrate with risky that\u0027s that session starts this afternoon one half okay when given the last four years when the workgroup already produce only two RFA\u0027s but I will actually finish five documents another sway you\u0027re sitting in the rock for the Miss ref but hopefully we have the CD DL Cooper already in the RFC I believe and the ACP we hope to face it this last meeting and get it in the ice before oh that\u0027s already iest but yeah yeah hopefully we will have so within this year to be RFC then that means we can have for at least four RFS competed in this year well that\u0027s good yeah we have the ASAP draft or the ASG still has to discuss hopefully that we would be a result racially and we have Brisky and now another round reversed ID did it were see according to the updates this weather we did another working group last go or not and we have the gross API which will make update this morning and to the constraint which are updates this afternoon and that\u0027s the say some extra information released next meeting in Singapore okay so here we go for the first presentation that\u0027s right should be one where it as long as the working groups have to have the priority so don\u0027t be surprised "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:54",
    "text": "if the working group draft report to take longer time than we planned we actually have you know should have sufficient time listen this meeting we after now we have 15 mins spare time you did will and then of Mike Mike sorry for that okay so this is a number so this is the update for ACP since in 104 we had version 19 and that basically had the answers to the security is G review from Bankhead ook and a request call and effectively I didn\u0027t receive replies for that since last week and since then I\u0027ve been working to get / 20 posted which I did yesterday and the reason was that a the the reviews you know it\u0027s a very large document right so basically what we miss a number of documents we have a number of pages between brewski and ACP document and so and effectively one ad had to taste and in four to 80s because Eric rest collars term expired also between 104 and 105 so basically been had to jump into the existing review from I can take it over and so he did an excellent job with a lot of details so that was a lot of work he was also moving so that was basically why I took the three-month between 104 and 105 to get all the feedback that was done with at the idea of 104 with 19 into you know back to me last week and and and I rested now so there is also kind of the oversight somewhere between me and Elissa in terms of Alyssa\u0027s feedback is the only other outstanding discuss on the iesg and that was actually closed in August last year in my opinion with the replying review and I checked and there was no other reply from that so I sent a reminder yesterday as well to basically see if if he also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:56",
    "text": "thinks that that her review and again are to review from Elwyn is close but I think that is all not really critical and should be very quick to do and then also you know this whole github stuff I really don\u0027t live that so I discovered very nice things that Michael had proposed in January and I also pulled those in so in summary I think the outstanding issues are to discuss from Ben one is about the encoding of the ACP domain information in the certificate and the second one is about details of the security profiles of the different protocols and that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to talk about in the end of the presentation I quickly wanted to go through the changes that were done between 19 and 20 that I hope are unconscious but interesting and not the hundred others that are on contentious and non interesting so so rework in and and and improve the ACP domain membership check text because it seemed to be been unclear whether this is something that should only rely on certificate encoding which is defined in RFC 5280 but rather it really depends on each individual Association protocol because depends on proof of ownership which is a process done by the security Association product called so that\u0027s basically referred to there is more specific reference to the certificate chain verification which is actually defined in 50 to 80 when there are certificate chains there was in slash 19 in the ITF 104 review also the point about stapling so those things are hopefully now covered correctly saying that when only when the security Association protocol is too weak so that you cannot do you know crl OSC SP with itself then we can skip during the security Association crl verification or CSP and basically do it later on when we get it mm-hmm so and then there\u0027s a new summary at the end of the section to restate the the individual purpose with respect to authentication authorization for each of these six steps so I\u0027m not going to go into detail on those for the certificate renewal we are been dating the est protocol RFC 70:30 and there\u0027s basically the interesting problem of why do we need actually you know to be able to identify the est server as a valid est server and if so how do we do it so 70/30 was asking to do this by having est servers have the ID KPC and CRA extended attribute in the certificate and so that is also now required here for EST servers in the ACP there was no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:56",
    "text": "good explanation given why under which circumstances that actually helps as opposed to just having normal ACP certificate and so the justification that I put in there is that this is primarily the way I understand it and that would be good if security experts would would chime in and tell me if it\u0027s wrong I hope it\u0027s not that if you\u0027re actually renewing the trust anchors you really want to know that whoever gives you the trust anchors is something more than the random note in the ACP but that that is actually somebody who is a trusted part of the security chain meaning a real registrar that has the authentication from the CA because in this certificate renewal case you know you would already be able to figure out that it\u0027s an attacker because he can\u0027t even give you correct reek heat certificate so so that was basically those those key parts you if you want to come in place I mean it\u0027s that\u0027s what we\u0027re here for it\u0027s called working group not presentation group Michael Richardson the the the the extended key huge stuff in my mind is is it general they work for lawyers but because people that jacket are applying implementations and people that don\u0027t check it can do whatever they want and they can always do whatever they want and you know legal stuff won\u0027t change whether they do it or not I\u0027m putting the bit there won\u0027t change whether they do it or not but the intention of the CM CRA I think you could get it right it\u0027s it\u0027s so that you know that you are speaking to a representative who can actually enroll you in that specific that specific CA well this is not in Roman right this is all only renewal enrollment specific thing yeah I don\u0027t really understand what the attack it prevents I\u0027m not sure there is one well I\u0027m the rendom RC 70/30 says like you will have that and 5280 says something about it I think - and that\u0027s you have it it\u0027s a bit of no enemies it\u0027s not if you are using open SSL that\u0027s not one of the IDs which is predefined I\u0027ve had you add it and it\u0027s an added in a way that you you just need a source code update to do it so is annoying front but that\u0027s what the spec says it\u0027s right yeah well I think he take his Syria well I mean I think the attack is that at some point in time a client figures out that the trust anchor certificates are expiring so he\u0027s renewing the trust "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:56",
    "text": "anchors and if then he gets randomly to some attacking est server on the ACP some you know sitting nowhere IOT device that has been intruded how do you prohibit that the attacker has to be a compromised device that\u0027s already enrolled in the CA just okay so and has compromised the network and for now pretending to be has an identity that matches the something so it requires a bunch of things that are not sure that that bit actually helps you I think it only requires you to be able to upload some application software that you know looks like an est server to such a compromised IOT device the device already has an ACP certificate and that\u0027s all it needs right there is no further verification possibilities on I think non-id device but because I would also well I was coming trying to come up with the best possible explanation why it really makes sense to add exactly that type of code that you were saying so and if that\u0027s actually you know if nobody can come up with a good reason I\u0027d rather you know go against what you know the isg review said and stick to to simpler software but basically we\u0027ll need to be sure that really it is not clear that there is actually any attack vector that it prevents okay so right so what what else that we have so Cerf est grass objective so Michael suggested we use port 443 because est of course is using TLS and then said also the objective parts that are unknown must be ignored CDP distribution must really use HTTP not HTTPS to a boy circular dependencies and I also added a note why dull grass isn\u0027t signaling these certificates because it\u0027s multicast certificates are large that\u0027s bad and that\u0027s just needed as a dependency for other stuff so there is a new section as part of the security review to talk in general about the security Association product called requirements independent of what they are especially important for somebody who writes a follow-up a security profile with existing protocols or new protocols so first of all I think this is finally the right place to have the every statement that we don\u0027t need Network wide MTI because this is all hop-by-hop we need to be able to signal the full certificates because we don\u0027t have other off path options to learn about certificates protocols really love to have just you know hashes or URL signal to be efficient by themselves and all security associations must have equivalent degree of security to not create a weakest link because that\u0027s the obvious attack against an ACP and that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:58",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t necessarily mean that we need to have strong crypto encryption at really the security Association at layer 3 but there at least you know two common cases of exceptions one is the one that we haven\u0027t done work for um that would be follow-up work is if we have something like Wi-Fi Mexico or something that at layer 2 has very strong encryption and at that point in time we would only need to figure out a secure Association for the ACP that leverages that accordingly and also does ACP you know authentication as a valid ACP member and the other one of course is when we have strong physical security within a data center in the NOC that\u0027s obviously what we\u0027ve defined is if we connect for but this text also now gives some good reasons beyond the fact that you won\u0027t have strong physical security outside of those constraint places but also that you can never do this Auto configuring fully this strong physical security that\u0027s something that really needs to be defined by policy and that really makes it not really very useful in general so this is just a workaround really so then there was a section about ripple routing to unknown destinations which basically is is a function on the ripple route to discover wrong traffic and that was one of been discussed this point otherwise I thought it was very simple to resolve so given how we\u0027re trying to have no new forwarding plane requirements routes would have this requirement we have this diagnostic so I wrote up a paragraph that says that you know devices that can\u0027t have more intelligent functions like not being a registrar not being able to have ACP connect and not allowing you to configure the route at all those would be devices that don\u0027t have the requirement because whenever those devices would become the actual route of a network then all the more intelligent devices are already gone um and you know Diagnostics isn\u0027t really possible anymore because the network can\u0027t be reached from the outside so grasped via ACP Connect there was a section in the appendix to say that we should have Policy filtering and you know during security review that was kind of misinterpreted to be a security requirement was really only a service policy requirement so I I thought it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s good and I would still like it but probably easier to have it in different text and not here so I removed that that was an interesting point about the a CPA and AI configuration that was brought up and where I figured that actually the explanation why we must configure in brownfield devices to enable the a and I as opposed to let it be default it\u0027s really the case where somebody doesn\u0027t even know a and is the feature on on their routers so that that text was in there but the real attack vector is a little bit more complicated and I wrote this down and that\u0027s really that if you don\u0027t even know there is a and I and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:58",
    "text": "what a masa is your organization hasn\u0027t also not gotten any you know credentials to have registrar\u0027s connected to the mass and that typically makes it a lot easier for identity theft for people to basically claim oh and this organization getting access to the masa and then basically of course being able to attack you from really what you know masa would consider valid certificates so that\u0027s now in their text so then yeah more text about a CP configuration as one of the you know hopefully also very simple you know you just configure one command and then you can attach in the NOC devices to it the text was was desired should likely so then there\u0027s the section a8 which was talking about the general purpose way to negotiate across incompatible security associations more intelligently um with you know something how to how do you negotiate between DTLS and IPSec if you do both and you have certain desires so that was a very convoluted thing and we decided already much earlier that that was too far out that we ever wanted to do this at our at this point in time so the an output nodes for the RFC editor in there so that it\u0027s not going to be included in publish means I want to have all these you know far out thing at least in the last version of the draft because when people go back and look at the history of the stuff that makes it a lot easier but that\u0027s gone and finally some Diagnostics so noting that the idea of ID maybe more insecurity so did I oops I think I forgot to mention huh what was it so then basically Michael in January had provided really nice text to improve the way that the ACP addressing in with the V long where we have so many bits gets expressed so basically he introduced you know just there is no encoding change at all it\u0027s just you know this bit that decides whether this field is 8 or 16 long you have given it you know it\u0027s now a named bit and the thing better text for that and ultimately also made a very nice a picture showing comparison of the different addressing formats that we have so thank you very much so now let\u0027s get to the real core issues that we still need to resolve so the first one is the encoding of the ACP domain information into the cert it\u0027s currently a certificate RFC 822 name which is a string and so we encoded it in a human readable form that is RFC 822 cum compatible summarized it\u0027s something like you know ACP RFC number plus the ACP address plus some options at the ACP domain and so there are a lot of reasons cited why we think this is a good thing backward compatibility is of coding new-new asn.1 so especially I was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "you know worried about that you know whenever I\u0027m doing Diagnostics even existing programs could show you the ACP address information without having to be revved up so then Ben\u0027s discuss was that he was suggesting to use a new other name encoding point for the IANA and proposed to one of binary encoding so meaning no asn.1 structure so my thinking and that\u0027s what I sent back to him and that\u0027s what I\u0027d love to see more feedback from the working group as well so I think we do always need a human readable knock bet end to a processable string as a standard representation so why do we need two different standard presentations and so something like local at domain is you know common identifiers that humans understand for identities anyhow just our options part make it a little bit more you know awkward well I did this last week and I send it out yesterday so we\u0027re talking here so obviously I\u0027ll bring it to the list yeah of course not there\u0027s there\u0027s some the annoyances to it or have nothing to do with encoding but rather it turns out that your registrar has to allocate because because his certificate is produced during the enrollment time and it\u0027s produced by providing CSR tributes as 7030 tells you to so the new device is now enrolled it\u0027s not pledge of does a get on CSR attributes and this is some get it\u0027s supposed to be a tit idempotent right but you have to return the right to CSR attributes in the width there so you have to allocate the ACP address on an idempotent get which means that you actually have to remember that you\u0027ve allocated it for this device by its white thing and so that it\u0027s word disconnected and reconnect and should get the same attributes again and everything would be happy so that\u0027s actually the part that should that\u0027s kind of fragile annoying figuring out how to encode it completely irrelevant okay there are no libraries and all I don\u0027t hear otherwise which return CSR attributes might have to hand coded in the instead one I\u0027m using a said one primitives regardless so that part doesn\u0027t matter anything you like it\u0027s going to be equally hard even if it\u0027s RFC 22 knee equally hard and the CSR adjoining side of things right okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:05",
    "text": "on the other side I\u0027m just thinking okay on the other side of things so then the the the CAA has to then process the CSR where in the asses there are some issues with getting things in and out but I would say they\u0027re not really a lot worse or better in my experience but there are other CA software you are writing probably has as much harder to change and much harder to update particularly if it\u0027s out ported I don\u0027t know if you saw I missed it yesterday morning Kathleen Moriarty no so she hasn\u0027t a document on acne integration for the registrar so the situation where the RA or the registrar is using Acme to get certificate from a CA and what happens RFC 22 name is completely supported and it\u0027s a must for that whereas other other name kind of things are probably far less supportive so that\u0027s probably outside of our space of work you put a CSR for anything you like just the Acme guy at the other end isn\u0027t going to deal with the specialized thing for us so I think your argument is correct that we need to stick with with well known stuff because that stuff is hard after the human readable nests of it none of it is particularly human readable all over cars and asn.1 decoder to see so if you think about it that way right yes there are you eyes that show you RFC 22 names but they\u0027re not human readable I can\u0027t read that certificate easily with with with more command can I can I ask you before you go on because my understanding was that because asn.1 be RDR itself identifying so it does know it\u0027s a string so it just prints the string as opposed to a hex prep presentation it still becomes it still becomes very at that level it\u0027s very as a care if you\u0027re at that level of doing things then it\u0027s you and me and three other people in the room doing it anyway okay everyone else needs a piece of software to see the artist 28:20 2d as well as they would for any other well I was actually looking at out you know what you know a pre standard implementation of the white list which is just the list of identifies then you have the strings they also nicely you know whatever ipv6 address at my domain right so I think there there are a lot of you know operational processes where I think this really does get read by humans decoded and dump it to my screen I do that I will see I will see the the the I will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:07",
    "text": "see it sure pointing to name on my screen and I will see other names and a ski on my screen both of them in the middle of a blob of garbage right what is it equally well you can see them that that way to get anything more complicated than that you need to have software it knows what\u0027s going on and I\u0027m saying this probably as easy to do other neat printing as it is but I\u0027m just talking about unchanged software right so I\u0027m talking about their show certificate in pretty much all the places where I\u0027ve dealt with certificates and they basically departs them but because of the fact that the CAS don\u0027t process things that they don\u0027t understand right they won\u0027t put things and they don\u0027t need at the ends and stuff that they don\u0027t know about then it\u0027s hard to get into change that\u0027s the argument not the human right so but wait a second so you\u0027re saying that if I\u0027m if I\u0027m having a certificate I\u0027m trying to departs I see there is a new attribute of string type I would still show it hexadecimal or not showing it at all I mean so that\u0027s what happens if you get not nothing in particular a lot of the programs are our intolerant of UTF and other stuff and so all those things the argument isn\u0027t it\u0027s human readable the argument is certification authorities are conservative in what they\u0027ll process and it\u0027s hard it\u0027s very hard to get them to doing things so if your registrar does not have a built-in certificate authority it\u0027s gonna be the case for most people\u0027s code then then it\u0027s it\u0027s a problem if you are coding a certificate authority it\u0027s probably as easy to do RFC 22 Nemeth or other name anyway they tend that they both require coding expression on the CSR attribute side of things okay okay so say you have the right of solution but the wrong argument that\u0027s why you\u0027re having well I think I think you\u0027re basically more with me on the using RFC 822 name then you know on on the need of having human readable string that\u0027s fine I\u0027ll take that feedback and bring it up with Ben no restrain it would contain the same string but we can now relax the string that\u0027s my proposal right we can relax the string insofar as that we\u0027re not limited to 64 bytes on the local part when we start having more options right but I would keep the string because I like really the string encoding as making really easy for human readability that has anything that will be a thing that that people can do probably a lot of them will actually say allow a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:07",
    "text": "connection for anything as a certificate from this CA which case the contents of the name use so I\u0027ll try to summarize what you said also by the thread on the mailing list and go back to Ben and say that you know yeah I was making this proposal but you know we\u0027re really in the group not really feeling safe to change from where we are right now okay this is fine we what we can take we\u0027ll take this to the list of busy so now the security profiles so they\u0027re kind of you know so basically all the security profiles stuff has been improved and redone so generic ACP certificate requirements right must be compliant with 50 to 80 obviously the minimum fields required are those required by the domain membership check anything beyond that is whatever the operator wants to use the certificate for in addition to the ACP membership check and it would for Diagnostics it would be lovely to copy the IDF ID identifiers of a device but of course it\u0027s a privacy risk and then the stuff crypto so the choice is here now if I\u0027ve tried to come up with something so this is basically exactly for review so obviously for this whole crypto stuff I\u0027ll create another thread summarizing this so must have an e CDH key should be signed with EC d HK and otherwise if you can\u0027t still you know all c8 not signed with EC D H must be signed with RSA key and the reason would be that EC D H is shorter in the certificate and basically the more we go to longer Keys the more important list becomes and of course this implies that the secure general protocols must be able to do with these type of certificates so now the question is what crypto parameters on this purely on the certificate side are missing right so obviously the minimum signing links whatever recommendation you know people shout in the room I\u0027ll take as default and then go with it or I mean asking Ben and the others so basically there there some of these documents here where I\u0027m going to reach out to other people that hopefully can give me more answer there is some somewhat of a complaint here even though I have the no whining sticker here I haven\u0027t really found a good RFC for you know basic certificate requirements and I found the good RFC for ikely two requirements for inter ability but even that says cryptographic recommendations for certificates are out of scope of the document pkix community will do with it so obviously you can\u0027t build into our operating actually two implementations if you don\u0027t have you know interoperating certificates so i wondering why they were able to lay them out on that one without a reference well this is a 20-17 document right certification authorities do what they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:09",
    "text": "do and they do it with minimal kind of respect for what we tell them okay the the unless your mozilla person or a Google person and can\u0027t read them a right act as to whether what you\u0027re going to support in your browser next week they are doing what they do which is 2048 bit RSA which is and then 256 bit ECDSA with the set P 256 there\u0027s a K or a 1 I can\u0027t remember that that\u0027s what they that\u0027s what they do right now in the web browser space how do people produce interoperable IPSec implementations well the majority of those are single vendor verticals or you buy the XYZ course remote access solution and then you actually didn\u0027t part of the certificate authority so the my culture said we need to go faster so I\u0027ve basically taken down to 4248 for RSA and 256 for ECDSA with P 256 as a recommendation I actually suggest that reference the cab for her requirements and suggest that they are the right answer and that\u0027s it but that means is that is it a result of reference that somebody can okay so then the IP six stuff so basically now the two references for the recommendations from end of 2017 8:22 one and eight two four seven are in there luckily I found them nobody pointed me to them so in IPSec it stripped down to just one security profile which was chosen because it\u0027s the best performant one we really don\u0027t need backward compatibility given how there\u0027s a new implementation likely to no stripping down it\u0027s just software and we obviously can add more IOT profiles for those links later on because it\u0027s hope I hope we don\u0027t need an MPI so on the crypto side in the signaling IP 2 we must use the full certificates because we need the ACP information so that\u0027s pkcs7 ret x.509 certificate must have all the intermediate serves in the chain and the proposed ipsec profile is AES GCM 16 know now encryption and obviously may support any more crypto profiles that are not of lower security so now the question is what crypto parameters are missing from the specification so now I\u0027m going to reach out to the folks who wrote these two profiles to tell me if I was actually missing something but GCM should make things easier because it\u0027s self integrity checking so no separate security check needed DTLS went through without anything um so that was a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:10",
    "text": "surprisingly good then we\u0027ve got as the final one TLS as used end-to-end within the ACP and the normative reference for that is of course the use by a grasp itself but any other protocol across the ACP that\u0027s newly built should obviously also use TLS and there\u0027s obviously an interesting issue when we bring in IOT device that don\u0027t want to do TCP then we need to create more MTI not only TLS but you know server devices would need to support you know some secure app in addition to TLS so this is the ongoing discuss with Ben what security profiles to demand a basically recommended three I was thinking of the middle one but then he was also saying that the nature of the RSA EDC s key size elliptic curve so basically there may be one or two parameters missing so I hope I can resolve these things very quickly and that was basically it and then was just an hour all the time okaythis have a much shorter I hope next slide just the quick reminder what\u0027s in this document it it really is the I guess I color is pink it\u0027s the pink bit the the API for a functional library for calling and functions the grasp core from an autonomic service agent next the contents of the turfed i\u0027m not going to go through it because we\u0027ve had this discussion before in a different room or possibly even in the same room i don\u0027t know it goes through design principles some comments on asynchronous operations because grasp is an asynchronous protocol it talks about the parameters and data structures that are proposed for the API and then it goes through the various functions describing the API for each each function and I remind you that this is an API spec in the IETF api\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:10",
    "text": "tend to be informational documents so it\u0027s not held to the same standard as a standard tract document with all the most and shirts because you know we know that implementations have to deal with the real world of their own operating system this is evolution but this this is definitely not standards track and it\u0027s not if cause bound to an individual language I don\u0027t think so because I think we need experience we need people to write api\u0027s for various operating systems and languages and you see if we can extract the standard practice from them and of course the way I designed this API because I designed it suits my programming style and other people might want to do it differently so I think we need to get something out into the field and then be prepared for feedback on it in a year or two so next slide please that is the only question I have today that I don\u0027t have any issues because I haven\u0027t received any comments for a long time is are we ready to you know provoke people to look for issues by doing a working group law school I haven\u0027t received a complete review from anybody but it\u0027s one of the things you do in working group law school there were there were there were comments at an earlier stage and since then you know we\u0027ve responded to comments and hadn\u0027t received further comments even despite asking the list for comments so you know either people don\u0027t think we should do this job or we should try and provoke some for some reviews okay so you\u0027re promising again let the record show that mr. Michael Richardson promised and in particular look at it as a si programmer because you know I designed this with the with the viewpoint of a Python programmer and has been used by an a master student in in Germany successfully so apparently it\u0027s not you know completely bogus but you know it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:11",
    "text": "needs more it needs more checking did you add the US okay action you missed too much time then not real fixed the comments from them okay that\u0027s okay I don\u0027t want to have to come back to the next meeting and say the same thing so that that\u0027s the right time scale yeah yeah this is a report for the rich Chapman progress and give a little bitty explanation on our potential new cutter next page please yeah actually we shoot down the rich and renowned tomorrow it was supposed to be two years at the very beginning but it\u0027s normal IETF working group a critic around three years to two years planning work so we actually did that in four years time but that\u0027s where we get the very frustration with Richard we\u0027re in progress we are three years yeah we actually start the proposed charter knew each other around ITF 102 and many iran\u0027s discussing with the working group and also other people around [Music] and we actually reach the convergence before the IDF 103rd and we have submitted that to iest review and later last year November in since then we have eight update rushing already and the latest one was proposed earlier this month and it\u0027s supposed has you know calling all the discussing we hear from iest rads actually I believe we clean all the blocks this morning so that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:15",
    "text": "going way off for iest now which I will show you later and we hopefully go for the external review and first go for IB and then later for the IDF meninist for wider comments but at actually means we will not get the our new header in this month maybe sometime next month so even those drafts we had learned in the new chatter as milestone had to be weighed and accuracy of them will present this today and I would like to hear the working group opinion on them but not official adopt and that adoption will come back on the menu is after we get our new charter we can do it again today yes three of them primarily also water birds of eveness a snow globe is still there but his buddy went missing we I think what he would like to see immediately is that we put in the milestones for those four ones and you know while we removed it from the charge of it cost people to divide automatic process what we\u0027re trying to do is you know start with ones that we feel could be done within a year or one I get more so I think we\u0027re going to reach out with the authors and reconfirm that and then put the milestones in yeah laughter the major point we received during those discussing is the idea particularly the ISD ATandT want us to you know flood our working group and we should currently whatever the working group adopt it should be delivery us you know a complete object in time so not a next page actually there is a wiki you know everybody could check it and yeah in totally different numbering system yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:20",
    "text": "I plan to do that so this is that what you know whey proteins a for the primary milestone and actually we pick up one from each error we identified for the working group that doesn\u0027t mean you know we were only works on those crafts that only means those crafts here\u0027s a mature situation up to now too first and the church will manage the rest depends on you know how fast those drafts coming out of the working group because as I said we don\u0027t want to you know either block our new work all get you know too little energy to complete the current working group work items so today I believe we will have the ASA guidance present in the morning and the grasp of distribution pre present this morning and the constant water already being working group document and constant joint proxy will be present this afternoon and three of them we would like to hear you know how the weather the working group supports the autopsy but we weren\u0027t talking at this meeting it has to wait for the new charter basically that\u0027s it any questions suggestions once twice okay let\u0027s move thank you so I\u0027m kind of an order from uc3m I I had to us it service fee they say to move it up in the agenda because I have five p-waves to culture at 11:30 so apologies and thanks for also for the the other presenters I it will not take long so I promise so the idea of this draft is to present a use case that we have that where we we believe that the stuff that animal is doing may be helpful for us so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:22",
    "text": "I\u0027m kind of new to anima so maybe I will there may be some assumptions from our side that are incorrect so please don\u0027t be sad on with me but this is the already able to to see whether anima can or specifically rats can can be helpful in for the use case that we have so the motivation is basically we we are working in several points on what we call for computing so basically it\u0027s visualization push the world toward eh where we have like very volatile environments is not like a data center because we may have resources on mobile phones access points base stations cars this kind of very heterogeneous and volatile environment and on that we are basically working on neutralization approaches and use cases that may benefit or use those those resources in this very kind of dynamic environment so we we have some stuff in SSC for example and we are looking into kind of orchestration approaches that deal with this very dynamic environment so ok so this is the one potential scenario that we are talking tackling in in this place basically we have like different fog notes basically resources where we can put functions in like an NSF see kind of way and this function for example we have a chain of f1 and f2 may be running on on this fog node B and I\u0027m fucking out a initially for example and then fog node a is moving away and we need to move the function that is running a fog not a function one to a different resource fog no see so basically this with current orchestration mechanisms is hard to do because it\u0027s very much reactive kind of thing and we believe that we we need some kind of more predictive things in order to be able to cope with this so basically we have we call for resource information platform so something that allows to get more dynamic more up-to-date events from the resources and to also be able to predict stuff and be able to trigger event so the definition describe where it should be you mean the fuck what the fuck the fuck okay maybe an end user device so for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:27",
    "text": "example the mobile it may be device in the in the network it may be a device at the edge of the network like an access point so I mean in the draft there are more definitions about what we we mean by a fuck node and maybe also references to I\u0027m sure the reference to the place where we are doing these things but it\u0027s a it\u0027s a generic concept I agree that it\u0027s like resources going beyond the classical data center that will be kind of this thing like in the in the cloud and trying to have resources in in devices that are in in the very close environment of the of the end user device that in this case maybe a TV a drone or something like that for this particular example is some end user those extra resources yes yeah yeah in the present we have we are dealing with these kind of environments mobile phone but maybe also car so these kind of things so it\u0027s research for yet but we we have like real use cases for cloud robotics and for drone control and these kind of things where we we do this and as part of this a scenario we believe that we need this kind of New York efficient solutions more reactive more proactive let\u0027s say not reactive so for example basically what we have is a new monitoring framework based on two components four gauges that are running on some or all of the fog notes basically responsive of sending information to the controller entity which is the other entity that we foresee and therefore control entity based on information that it gets from the different nodes may trigger an orchestration event for example my written a function to a different note or a scaling of the resources that are associated to are allocated to one function these kind of things so this is basically kind of the the overall a scenario oops this one thank you so we have the different notes where we may have have been talking about HT NFV terminology and in some of them in this case in all of them we have this fog agent and there will be a controller in the infrastructure so basically what we want to use anima for and in my stuff class in this case is to basically bootstrap discover all these folk agents make the connection or the association between these folk agents and the fog monitoring controller add infrastructure so this is basically what we are aiming at I will not go into all the details but we have some dioramas in the in the draft how this fog nose may both trapped the fog agents may discover that there is a controller they may change different information on the capabilities of these four gauges and based on that we may have association between the controller and the four gates these are simple scenario and maybe multiple controllers and maybe multiple associations all these kind of things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:27",
    "text": "are at least introducing the in the current version of the of the draft so we try to analyze how we can use glass for this and we already discuss mechanisms or dissolution this the flow diagram before using them discovery messages with new objectives and not just these options like for example we want to this cover all the vocations running on a particular type of folk note with a particular type of connectivity or with a particular type of resources visualization capabilities these kind of things and we also define different multicast scopes for for the use of this discovery in mechanics discovery messages so I don\u0027t want to consume more time my goal was to basically introduce this use case that I guess it\u0027s a bit different from what we have been discussing in anima lately and to see there are people that may be potentially interested in this we have a ready code for staff based on the visualization working and we want to start doing things with using rasp for this this is not yet there but if people are interested in in this please say that in the mailing list or contact me offline and I will be very much happy to to collaborate I think this may be in the scope of the new charter in the future like a potential use case to to document but I mean at this point what we really want to have is if to see if there is anybody in there in the group that wants to to work on this so well this is something that we wanna we wanna investigate and we wanna try so we have focused on the discovery part and we believe that this may be useful but this is good feedback to to see how to understand and we will need to implement the stuff and test and see how it works but this is part of ongoing exercise today the thing about UDP for non discovery and non flooding thoughts Trust is the you know we hit the problem the UDP is an unreliable protocol there are two ways to fix that one is to put the reliability into grass breeches horrible thing to do the other is to require that any operations using it would be basically doing it important operations so if something does fails you just repeat it which is quite a tight constraint on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:28",
    "text": "application so it\u0027s an area where we actually need some feedback before we do any workout Tallis Adventure speaking it\u0027s in digital too lame to get up there the and I\u0027m very interested as an individual I\u0027ll have to come to a conclusion about what I think about the working look later I\u0027d love to talk to you kind of just how it uses the the AI infrastructure and to get back to the UDP stuff if it is data that is being transferred can use grasp encoding but it doesn\u0027t have to use the you know secured environment right so it basically can be just over whatever you know forwarding plane exists in the network with UDP encoding or not because grasp all supports that and the only you know secure stuff is what needs to be secured net goes to the ATP selecting those are kind of the details which I think after we better understand the purpose of okay what you like to match here oh and how\u0027s that pitchin network and walk easy the useful function for for others who staff like other are taking on those notes yeah I think we I mean there are some additional details in the in the draft but we can definitely work on on that and try to to provide more more stuff yeah I mean this was just starting draft to present this but definitely there are many things that needs to be to be a leader so if basically I think that there are some people interesting so we can discuss offline and and then we will try to put more meat on on the draft okay thanks just to comment on what tortoise said maybe we should stop thinking about how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:28",
    "text": "little can we secure and thinking what do we absolutely not want to secure and everything else is good morning a man is below it\u0027s a quick update of the information distribution in Ottoman Network which is mostly based on some extension to grasp next please the previous one thank you yeah this is a brief reminder of what is the crafter doing we propose several functions which could be considered as infrastructure Isis is actually a skill within the United Nations are selectively riding which is a optimization to the current flood of grasp and the other tool is a more sophistication to the even Q messaging and distributed data storage and we know in order to support the new functions we need the cross to be extended so we propose some update to add some new message and the answer this is a synchronization and SubPop new message next please so the update seems last idea and we add a new subsection to discuss how to utilize the current across API to allow the new defined functionalities to call the grass service and fortunately we found there was no necessary to extend the current API so a pet document could go as planned next please yes there\u0027s some summary of the API utilized the further distribution models and the first one is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:31",
    "text": "a requirement of storing some data from or not it just simply reuse a discovery message but with some extension of the options to find whether there\u0027s or some other node want to share some storage space for the specific purpose and then is if some nas replies the data will be transferred transmitted by the synchronized calling of the kraspo and if there\u0027s some publication information to all the nodes the flood messages sorry the flood it guy is reused next please and the sub if mission is to for the submission of service a fake type of information we reuse the original objective API already defined and also the flawed message and then if there\u0027s some new event against the submission then synchronized will be again reused next please yeah that\u0027s basically the update so for the cross distribution the most sophisticated is actually hiding within the modules rather than very sophisticated expansion to current either API or course messages so in standardization perspective it is fairly fairly easy nothing very difficult to do okay any question okay then let\u0027s save some room so but is there anybody else - no - the building - to reveal this work because I think this we\u0027re a couple of IPS would be interesting to see we can get more feedback thank you very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:32",
    "text": "and yeah let\u0027s stick it with that thank you next on the list yeah I\u0027ll say it this one you are so lucky to imagine from over the new chart has been approved because these are not new documents but we haven\u0027t really put the question about working group adoption because we were waiting for the Charter so assume the Charter gets approved in the coming hours and next slide please oh no no wait a minute wait a minute there\u0027s news anyway this is just a reminder of what\u0027s in the drafts I don\u0027t think there\u0027s much point in having substantive discussion and until we can officially put them into the Charter put them into the milestones this one still needs work nobody is saying that it\u0027s ready for publication or anything but I believe the under the new charter this would be very very suitable candidate for adoption so it still has the same contents as it did last time describes the logical structure of an autonomic service agent how it interacts with the autonomic infrastructure some comments on the design of gross projective x\u0027 because see the information about that in the grasp spec is intentionally quite limited then a discussion on the lifecycle is used since autonomic Service agents are pieces of code that are very likely to be installed dynamically and an updated dynamically on a working system the problem that Laura raised a long time ago which may of course in the end news its own draft I of coordination when you have autonomic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:35",
    "text": "service agents that are both interfering with the same bits of configuration if you like so you have to make sure that they don\u0027t fight each other now those are the main topics and you know the question I got asked hypothetically since we can\u0027t ask it until the new charter is in place is whether the working group is ready to adopt this work which doesn\u0027t imply of course that you agree with what it says that implies that you think the subject matter is something the working group should work on so at this point the question is how many people have actually read it I see a few hands yeah yeah we made a few more people to read it before we actually had the adoption discussion because earlier we appreciate we has another snippet for the lifecycle management is that still another part oh because what we have even less crafty that\u0027s the various section for the lifecycle but that that\u0027s just the three short compared to a separate draft so we are still going to have that one for the map cycle management in fact the the point in the draft or the lifecycle and coordination was just to highlight important aspect considering the guidelines I hope to go into all the details that will be covered by the potential draft on lifecycle and yes we believe it\u0027s important that this is in this draft heat at morehouse pointers laughs okay so you\u0027re still has declare for the map Second Amendment left because that\u0027s the another one we had in the primary master for the second charter for the second child yes so we would like to see you working on that draft and read a draft bike next time why so again if if if the life cycle and coordination material is covered in other drafts we would have to adapt the text in this draft you know due to not you know to not cause difficulties with the dedicated drafts but at the moment we can\u0027t do that of course because there aren\u0027t any such drafts so anyway I basically I would encourage people to read this because it helps okay which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:09",
    "text": "you would like to avoid same situation even the life cycle and coordination we have to discuss suggest that that is binding to just I like those aspects can be self-contained and then when the draft become taking those okay so next slide so this is another draft that\u0027s been around for a while it\u0027s actually I believe a reference for the distribution draft that being that talked about so this discusses use cases for boat transfer in an autonomic Network some of the use cases there are probably others it discusses a general method for doing bulk transfer inefficiently I have to say intentionally it\u0027s inefficient if you like using grasp this cross was not designed as a bulk transfer protocol and it gives a worked out example of how to do it for an elementary file transfer and it doesn\u0027t make the point that if there is an existing boat transfer mechanism you know that is more appropriate for an application we could perfectly well use that within the ACP and get the security benefits of the ACP without having to artificially use cross for something that it\u0027s not good at Richard Richardson sorry yeah we don\u0027t talk about intent and specifically the question is why we need to do it and are happy to do it in a somewhat you know inefficient way rather than using you know a well-known file transfer protocol or file sharing protocol you know I I agree I mean I don\u0027t see any urgency in this although I do actually use it when I want to transfer files on my desk Queen my Linux box in my windows box I do actually use this now running code and I use it quicker than you\u0027re putting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:11",
    "text": "files somewhere else and bringing them back or whatever the other alternatives might be so it works but I agree I don\u0027t think it\u0027s urgent and if you say if you\u0027re asking answering my question by saying not yet to the adoption question I I don\u0027t care about that that\u0027s fine yeah exactly but you know I could imagine a context where you might have very where you\u0027re trying to minimize the amount of software you after load in your in your target system and this might be a cheaper way you know of achieving low low urgency well transfer than cheaper in terms of footprint right so III wouldn\u0027t say we should exclude it as a use case but I agree it\u0027s certainly not important to to push it to first I don\u0027t think I don\u0027t think there was a must use case I just think it\u0027s a pragmatic question if it turned out to be better than you know sticking in FF TP code in your in your your tiny device yeah okay so this is completely different definitely definitely probably not possible under the old Charter and it was intended to present it last time and you ran out of time so and I wasn\u0027t here anyway it was finger was going to present it so next slide please so this draft talks about scenarios where you might want to build your ACP as a layer to construct and then tries "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:17",
    "text": "to get to some political ideas about requirements for doing that so next slide please so video of course is that grass doesn\u0027t have it\u0027s in intrinsic security so it must run over a secured ACP substrate which should be isolated from the normal user data plane traffic and we had a very very very long argument with Erica schooler before we got grasped through the isg and that basically was a very strong must in the in the document that resulted now the regular ACP constructed at layer 3 is complex and I don\u0027t think that even even tell us what disagree with that statement and it\u0027s aimed at large networks since clearly we\u0027re not going to do things like running running ripple over and building a complete vrf environment and so on except in a reasonably complex large network so we think there are scenarios where a layer 2 solution could be used you know for example a small enterprise which is all in one building or spread across a couple of buildings but it\u0027s large enough that they want an autonomic network probably cuz they don\u0027t want to pay the crew of geeks to run their network they\u0027d rather the network ran itself or an enterprise which prefers to segment its network into small units for management and there are a lot of enterprise networks that do that you know because it\u0027s the simplest way to think about security is to have lots of little pieces and keep each one secure if you decided to do that you might prefer to build your ACP locally on each of those pieces of the network so next please so let\u0027s assume you\u0027ve made that decision that you want to build your ACP layer to then the draft goes through of course with some arguments about each of these these requirements some of them are fairly obvious it needs to support transmission of ipv6 packets it doesn\u0027t actually on a single l2 segment need to be running any ipv6 routing on a single where to segment grasp run perfectly happily with only link local addresses available so you could imagine a scenario where you had self-contained autonomic network running entirely on link local addresses "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:18",
    "text": "and of course there\u0027d be some sort of interface to the network management center which would be across her routable part of the network it must support l2 multicast that\u0027s a fundamental requirement which we built into the design of a grasp which may have been a mistake but that\u0027s what it is minimum MTU of 1,500 this sort of fairly obvious there\u0027s one little awkward thing there that we defined the the maximum grasp message size as 2048 which doesn\u0027t fit into 1500 that it\u0027s possible we\u0027d also have to add a constraint on the deployment of growth but it also could fit inside 1500 byte packets which for a lot of things we expect people would use grasp for it isn\u0027t a problem you need a technology to isolate a set of nodes which were which is the ACP VLAN basically so this is fairly obvious way to do this will be Leyland technology secure villain and you need to make sure that access to the ACP VLAN is authorized in the secure way so people can\u0027t just plug into it as far as I understand VLANs that\u0027s almost a proprietary requirement because there doesn\u0027t seem to be a very general solution to that problem but maybe somebody can correct me hmm it actually isn\u0027t a very difficult requirement because it\u0027s not a requirements on the network except for the support of multicast which doesn\u0027t need to because it\u0027s level 2 multicast right I mean you\u0027re not saying there are any IP you don\u0027t tell people they have to buy an ipv6 router for this they just have to have a piece of wire or virtual wire which is capable of carrying ipv6 packets that\u0027s not a that\u0027s not actually a requirement it\u0027s not to meet yeah this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:38",
    "text": "is a requirement on the nodes that\u0027s that\u0027s correct it\u0027s not a what I\u0027m saying it\u0027s not a requirement on the network it\u0027s a requirement on the nodes that they can transmit yeah [Music] hope sorry I can\u0027t remember yeah okay let me let me if you can hold on I think we\u0027re nearly there then it turns out when you continue with the requirements there\u0027s some sherds you\u0027d need the data plane VLAN and the ACP VLAN to be on the same physical socket which sounds like a silly thing to require but I think there are some implementations where you can only put one VLAN on a given piece of wire no no no no no physical physical physical physical physical connectors you know when my readings about VLAN technology\u0027s there seem to be cases where you can only allocate a given socket to a single VLAN whereas it should be able to support more than one you would like to have line speed encryption of the VLAN but that\u0027s really a local security decision whether you pay for one speed encryption and you need Wadhwa is bridging if if relevant [Music] show me the neck I think it\u0027s the last one no it\u0027s not the one thing I couldn\u0027t figure out how he could do is to avoid some degree of configuration of the loads in order to reconfigure the VLAN ID and possibly the password or encryption key for access to the VLAN you know this isn\u0027t a solution that would self configure itself 100% where you just ship unpack the boxes and connect them and magic would happen you would definitely have to do some some degree of configuration to to put the put the VLAN in place and so I\u0027d like to go back to Shang\u0027s point those if you go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:38",
    "text": "back to slides yeah we we said fairly early stage of the development of grasps that we were only going to define it for ipv6 the big difference between ipv6 and ipv4 is going to be the fact that the concept of a link-local address although it does exist it was retrofitted to ipv4 um it\u0027s not as well defined and nicely defined as it is for ipv6 so I haven\u0027t actually thought about this very deeply um I think you would run into one problem if you were trying to operate the grasp relaying mechanisms where discoveries and floods replicated on a different interface when they come in on one interface and they have to go out on another interface if you don\u0027t have that in your topology right now if you do have a single loop apology then I think the ipv4 link-local stuff would work perfectly well and you could be completely independent of the regular data plain ipv4 addressing mechanism I think yes yep yep and in that case you could you could I think you could you could translate the concepts back to ipv4 testing question is just what you use for the lair through discovery of neighbors yep which obviously cannot be tagged and then you probably also don\u0027t want to do something that uses existing discovery protocols by develop your city because they may be blocked so you basically need a layer to allocation do your discovery which could be later to grasp negotiate a v10 and wonderful um so yeah you know it\u0027s not that difficult and these details here are fine as far as you know having the points of consideration of course zero zero draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:44",
    "text": "if I\u0027m not mistaken so you know we should make it I like to say I would like to say it\u0027s a pure layer to you know solution as I write you but as a animal working group here as far as I remember we have the ipv6 in our family shattered I mean first the state charter say we should do something I can be based on ipv6 still no I mean that\u0027s you know my opinion about charters as if they if they\u0027re wrong changed them AC retarded ECB on max so it is an i Tripoli protocol when I first looked through it they did not seem to have a key management protocol that is not true anymore but the proposal initially that I had was that we would write as we\u0027re running and the ECP were running like overly local v6 addresses okay that we would propose instead of ESP we would propose max act as another option and that we would key it that way and that it would be effectively transparent some links might mean access and some not as far as I remember hope knapsack it is point-to-point okay per link not for VLAN so that so so you actually have to put all of your traffic including your data plan traffic on that link through that channel but they can be encrypted differently but the point is that everything that goes at that port has to be encrypted so the point is that that we could get is what I\u0027m hearing then from you tell me is that we could have by whether we used the the I Triple E key management algorithm or IP to the point is that we would wind up negotiating a point-to-point set of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:46",
    "text": "tunnels one of which VLANs could be the ACP the other ones would be for the system but that what we would need is the additional tag is the VLAN tag okay and I understand it that it\u0027s all designed inline cards to run at their line speed and that they\u0027re all very happy about that but from from from month my point of view I don\u0027t think we need any more discovery I think that we can do it all the only question is to what extent I don\u0027t know very much about the I Tripoli\u0027s key management protocol I do know it does take certificates and we have certificates okay so the only real question is you know we might want to put something for instance define a IP to attribute that says oh by the way I could have done max AK at which point you may go well actually let\u0027s start again with max sets key management system and we\u0027ll end into the IP - okay that may be the right answer but given that you have to follow the traffic that may not be something that everyone wants to do in every situation so maybe maybe there are advantages to to not doing it that way but I think in particular you should say is that you have this bridge layer - you know Canario the bridge mechanisms are not participating in the ECP they are invisible things they may even get provided by another party untrustworthy in this working group bridges building just a normal ICP across it and whether you do that or not obviously the ability of existing ACP mechanisms to negotiate between neighbors something like Mexico was something that I mentioned in my slides initially it only comes to supporting Laird who bridge networks with existing ACP I think we\u0027re in good shape and and big fan of Mexico so definitely trying to define them ACP security as general Association using Mexico to me would be just a matter of finding the cycles to do that and you find to find help for that right so as Michael said the key difference I think here would be to relying on a pre-established layer - a bridging domain which by itself is insecure and can break right because on the existing solution of the ACP the big benefit is you don\u0027t rely on the existing bridging stuff to work the ACP will work even if you\u0027re bridging breaks and this your solution if the bridging breaks da\u0027s Charles of race Sherman so I think those are kind of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:46",
    "text": "differences I think could be put in there and then yes I think one of the things that we might want to look into is that this whole thing you know also negotiating a layer to VLAN and then trying to figure out how to secure that layer to layer two so maybe you know catch up with somebody like norm fin there are a few later to experts here in brainstorm this speaking as a working group member here is context so you have some things in your document which don\u0027t necessarily align with the operational reality more practices [Music] one of the practices is to move it away from identifiers one and shut down that\u0027s that\u0027s just a commonly accepted practice now the other thing is reading the document this time make an assumption that impression that there is an assumption that it looks like Ethernet cable that means it\u0027s transparent bi-directional and what you put on one end you receive on a aware that\u0027s not necessary true and even if I talking for the deployments which are positioning into enterprise site a common trend and that is increasing to that both loops Ethernet as a service is implemented on top of some other packet substrates so if you if you see that it\u0027s a layer two Ethernet connection from point A to point B it very well might be that it is implemented of some other packet infrastructure and you have severe restrictions of what tag values you can use it does it cannot assume it cannot be assumed that it will be bi-directional it cannot be assumed that you will be able to send multi-point multi destination frames in the same way so it\u0027s years ago it\u0027s actually very hard to avoid as far as I could tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:24",
    "text": "there\u0027s a lot of variation in the way a way that proprietary letter stuff does this if we want to make a recommendation that would be obvious want to make I I agree I stage we\u0027re at in this document it seemed too soon to say that by the way there is another at least one more slide somewhere we\u0027re nearly finished that\u0027s the one yeah hold on being my co-author ipv6 is a must you maybe it might be more precise to say what we really need is something that can prevent autonomous l2 connectivity and transmission of packets that could be secured and separated from no more dinner plate yeah yeah that that might be in more preset and for a period for maybe it\u0027s difficult without pre-install of some private ipv4 addresses but with pure o2 solution Michael just mission mexic we don\u0027t have a clear answer yet but I think maybe there are some we are basics this this final slide it\u0027s probably hardly worth discussing but one thing we need to do in the engineering of this is to make sure that the upper layer which is grasped and the lower layer which is the ACP talk to each other in a reasonably standardized way so that you know we we have ACP code that will work over under grasp and we have crossed grow their work over ACP regardless of what choices are made in the on the two sides of that boundary so this suggests to me that you believe that the entire ACP will be over a layer two and that you will not need a routing protocol that was the thesis that this would be done in smallish segments cuz you\u0027re gonna have a bunch of point-to-point links whoa right as said you may not be able to say you know multicast it things so multicast "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:26",
    "text": "multicast is the problem there there may be two separate things and I don\u0027t think the issue of what are the addresses is the issue that you have the issue is what is your apology and and we actually know what the that we know what address is we\u0027ve allocated to the what you LA\u0027s we\u0027ve allocated within the the thing because they\u0027re in the certificates so it\u0027s not really the issue the issue is how do you find that\u0027s not by the way that\u0027s just using the same ipv6 loopback addresses that are used in the data plane so that basically creates a dependence against the data plane that\u0027s one of the things I wouldn\u0027t like in general because it makes it very hard to isolate discovery of a VLAN for an ACP I think is very generic from that I\u0027d like to have then the next thing is you know what type of ACP are we building across it is it just the normal a city that we\u0027re doing right now or would it be something different right so maybe that\u0027s one one piece to start from the bottom line with one component that we need I think to think there\u0027s a last slide that asks a question right the question we\u0027ve had comments and questions and we are close to the time limit so I think the real question is whether this is work that\u0027s interesting enough that we should go on doing it or should we just forget about it in my mind you know the ACP that you are currently pushing very hard for thee is G is very complex right and and the idea here which perhaps wasn\u0027t stated clearly enough at the beginning is to try and have something simpler for simpler scenarios if we can\u0027t make it simpler then there\u0027s no point making it at all yeah but that\u0027s protocols which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:32",
    "text": "run on IP transport one of the big areas of complexity there is actually implementing what IP transport and high layer transfer protocols can give you that so basically facing fragmentation need reliable transmission and things like that don\u0027t you believe that it might be such a case that if you remove some complexity or may be itself but in order for that functionality to to work you will need to add complexity Oh basically in the event lower transport layer or for this lightweight easy I but yeah I mean it\u0027s really should continue to explore this not will the rest periods it will be lot more exciting in the afternoon [Laughter] riki new chairs lunches tomorrow "
  }
]