[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:34",
    "text": "while Charlie area joints can confirm that you can hear me well nassim know many shall we you really can\u0027t show you we can\u0027t show you okay it\u0027s absolutely perfect very good song alright great okay so the internet in Montenegro is not too bad after all could you please turn your mic because Tommy told us there is a game of mic that you know yes listen together so this is the six dish working group so if you\u0027re looking for watching of a plane in flight it\u0027s the wrong place otherwise we\u0027ll stop now so we are trying to own that they gave us so let\u0027s see if it works so this is a traditional 80s meeting so all the provisions of the best practices and enjoy to property entire restaurant etc apply to this meeting the particular are aware of any idea in technical subject in this case in this meeting please let us know after the chairs autonomy remember that as an hf meeting group everything that\u0027s being said is shared meaning that your presence will be large the minutes will be recorded and kept and people will be able to visualize the meeting after recording will take the notes the minutes of the meeting on the etherpad link then etherpad link is on this page here please join for two good reasons one if you have trouble understanding what was said maybe somebody captured it that will help you see what I said or fix it and second if you say something of them I can say something you may want to check that your words were captured correctly but those two reasons it makes a lot of sense to join the ether fan we will pass on the blue sheets in a few minutes just to give a chance for the late comers to join the room before we pass them on and that will be the difficult time of finding minute takers and most he jabber scribes yes that\u0027s already recorded and thank you so much now we need the jabber scribe all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:37",
    "text": "fantastical your lifesaver you may sit here thank you thank you all thank you very very much okay so the other links for the various materials we publish the minutes on the ATF site there is already the agenda publish there so you can click on links to to find out all all those websites and with this let\u0027s do the traditional agenda batching so today we don\u0027t spend a little bit of time not too much javi explaining us the latest on the six top iesg work then we\u0027ll have also remote thankful oh no single you\u0027re the one talking right Simona compliment so yes Simone will be representing us did the Mirage of MSF then Monisha for minimum security and many sure there has been a lot of activity on minimal so if you like we can actually compress the micro slots which I intended to present to give you more time would you like to have like monisha so I mean we have 10 issues to discuss I don\u0027t know how much input we will get and how much time it will take so I mean maybe if we can make this flexible that will be the best well Ultimates flexible is to put your last so you have all the time left but I wouldn\u0027t do that either so say what I you have 25 minutes but then if you I won\u0027t stop you if you go to 35 or even 40 ok good so we\u0027ll make a hot stuff ok all right that\u0027s good thanks so then we have 2 discussions about Michael\u0027s draft he has progressed on both drives on both drafts but he can not be with us today so we\u0027ll be presenting an update and then time permitting will have javi explaining us the latest on global time Jonathan on multiple files and subjec and then yatch we had a very interesting discussion about which the weary transmission works on 15 for 2015 and actually yet extracted the operation in a way that we can now understand so if we have time yet you will present that to us and thanks so much for doing this yeah and then as you\u0027re aware we are working at 6000 and fragmentation and Tomas presented status of the design team to sit slow and time permitting you will show us where we are in that respect so this trench thing at 60 which is that we are not like a usual working group just doing our one RFC\u0027s a lot of our work is actually to aggregate integrate RFC\u0027s from different working group find redundancy and say ok we\u0027ll work with this and not that and find "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:38",
    "text": "holes and missing pieces in which case we go and push off some work in the work which are responsible for that so examples of that are the work that we are doing at six know on the fragmentation and then there is all this see clapping and the update we are concluding the backbone router which is part of our architecture all this actually derives from work at six station and we have the the six loaded like time as well which as a particular variation when the time is expressed as an absolute number in succession then we have all the work that we promoted at role that includes the Software Defined Networking variation of role of ripple which is called our projection and I know where I live which allows a device which is not aware of people to get written what abilities to ripple and then the companion draft of the beacon that we\u0027ll be discussing later but six at role is how you actually propagate and help on the geoduck selection very useful for sixty very useful for role in general how do you help select the right ear dag when you see multiple networks around you and then we have a relation or some common work with course called discussion for minimal security which we are working on this deck is proxy our inter man with this I will give you the ball baby just tell me to switch slide yes thank you so a couple of things to add so first I\u0027m very frustrated cannot be there my plane was canceled at the very last minute I wish I could be there but but I think this works well so another announcement where we\u0027re looking at here at slide Oh - so if you\u0027re looking on the link that who said is the right one we\u0027ve been updating the slides with a kind of recent work that happened so if you have downloaded yesterday night your outdated so do you should download oh - before we get started with the draft three tiny announcements the first one is that open areas had 114 was released a couple of weeks ago and it implements the different drafts that we\u0027re talking about today next slide please there is a Six stage sweet now released 1 0-0 as part of elephant drop if a drop is this online tool that allows you to do conformance and interrupt tests online and so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a test suite that implements that that covers the different drafts that we\u0027re talking about today on F and drops we can test your implementation against it anytime you want it\u0027s it\u0027s a free service the next item next slide please is an announcer I mean as a reporting that we had the second defender of succession drop event held a couple of weeks ago in Paris with the scope that you see here lots of fun we run whatever number of 88 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:38",
    "text": "different tests with a compliance of 97.1% so that that\u0027s good it helped us tremendously testing this and in particular we we tested our CID 180 which is which we you know which has it already but also the six stop protocol and also the co cheap part of the minimal security draft and then six low RH and that\u0027s it for me the next so let\u0027s get started with with what the agenda yeah yeah hi everybody okay I\u0027m gonna present a little bit the status off of this draft we\u0027ve been working on it since last ITF we got the review from the IG and we we answer all of them to the mailing list on the right side of this light you see the different persons that send us comments and this is the response this is now the status of their their their claims or their questions we published version 12 of the draft consolidating all the answers we all the answers we provide to the reviewers and this was published the 20th of June so this is mainly the status of these drafts so we are asking what\u0027s the next step whether it should move on as Thomas already state side note we have this we have implementations and we evaluated it during the last plaque testing in Paris last two weeks ago so so your question Travis is whether we should move on with this meaning it is now it is now in the isg hands right so so we should wait for a decision I I think it\u0027s been published do you see any action from any immediate action from the workgroup at this point no I\u0027m just asking whether we should do any action or just wait for further response just out of your hands now it\u0027s between the Shepherd and the area director and so basically yeah the only thing you could do was make sure that you\u0027ve answered all the question that was asked and maybe chase the reviewers if they did not confirm that they were okay with your responses but as soon as you know you you got you okay and they have to do with what you said the body\u0027s the raw in your hands mm-hm basically now for Suraj to ask for publication okay thank you great well thank you so much yes oh so rational being Bingham Oriel we cannot ask him live but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:41",
    "text": "but we can you know kind of kind of keep keep tracking and ping him and with this we are inviting Simone you can wear to the main stage yes so yeah I\u0027m going to give you in a bit of MSF where the main action the rest meeting was to merge ASF with the autonomous scheduling function into MSF the during friction of six dish and this was done so between version one in two so in a nutshell MSF now after the merge has three types of cells you have the basic minimal cell that comes from the sixties minimal schedule so it\u0027s one cell that repeats periodically let\u0027s use for any broadcast so it\u0027s Ronnie Busan everybody wakes up at the same time and Chandler upset then you have what we call it animal cells which are it\u0027s one cell every Network maintained one cell every node maintained once LT was each of its neighbors you have one cell to to to receive and you have one cell for each of you enable to transmit to them and do some antenna to numerously but then the main limitation of them is that you have just one it\u0027s just one perp or any pair of node that\u0027s just one link to communicate so we in on top of that we have the D D dedicated cells which were already present in msf of previous versions which are all negotiated with using 6p with 60 add and delete commands so whenever there is more traffic need you can add more cells between child and parents so I\u0027m going to focus here on the changes since last time so the one of the major changes is the addition of section 3 which is grab you to normal cells which could simply or so you have as I was mentioning quickly also if we know it has one cell to receive and the coordinates of the cells are derived as a as a hash of the MAC address of the own node to I compute a hash on my own Mac and from that I know which time and general said to Lisa not but then for each of my neighbors I\u0027m also going to maintain a transmit cell so that I can talk to them and and I know the time and channel offset because I know the MAC address of the neighborhood so you can also include the hash that\u0027s how this is done now the cells they have is that the TX or rx flag and they always have the share option because you might have multiple transmitter understand only given google "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:42",
    "text": "coordinate and one last thing was mentioning here is that you have you may have collisions in your schedule you may have multiple cells executing at the same point in time and when that happens we resolve collision at runtime exactly as much as define in a cheerily 15.4 2015 which is that transmitted cells take precedence over receive cells and in we actually define a bit more specifically how we do that what we do with that you pick the cell that you have the most outgoing packets in your q4 and then you see you can start flushing that queue and only when all the TX cells don\u0027t have any transmit any packet in transmitted queue then you can start considering issuing an assault so that is for how the autonomous cells work now the you have updated the behavior of the nodes at boot so the way it looks now is that after the next thing you do is to install the Unum cells that just straight away able to communicate on them so you can install your own Eric slot and you install the TX slots to body levels and then you\u0027re going to be able to use these for for the registration of your parents so the join procedure which was taking place before on the dedicated cells of MSF which now are not installed at this stage yet it will be installed at the later stage and if there is more traffic needed between a child and a parent so that is over the boot sequence no exact now one more thing is that so when you have the autonomous cells as mentioned before it\u0027s just one cell for each pair of nodes and if you have a need for more traffic we have the 6p that need to be used by a myself in some more cells between parent and child but when we have short term bursts of packets we to be able to handle them as well without having to install new slots because if he but suddenly I get ten packets to send to a given neighbor or I don\u0027t want to insert more slots for just these so instead we use the we use something that actually was already finally 15.4 2015 t SCH which is that use the the one of the header a bit called the frame painting bit to signal that you have more traffic to come so whenever you start sending to your neighbor or you said that beats that and that means there\u0027s more data to come and then the next time of offset and the same frequency not channel offset but frequency so you stick to the same physical frequency then at the next time the times thought you send the next packet and you can as long as you keep setting that bit pending that\u0027s frame pending bit you can keep on sending and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:43",
    "text": "for the last packet in your queue you unset the bit and that tells the receiver that you can stop listening so finally we have so we still have a number of issues now have to name myself all of them are quite minor I would say so I can review them briefly here one is terminology the the cells the unicast cell that have maintained by MSF between child and parents they are called dedicated in the draft but we think it\u0027s not the best word for that because dedicated means nutshell and the seller shop so we want to change that who installed or managed we want to define here are the list of packets that go to the minimal soul we want to discuss a bit more about the length of social 0 which with the minimal slot frame end frame 1 which is this not frame use for unicast we want to separate transmit in our X counter so that when we manage the number of links or all of cells that we need between Italian parents we can manage separately the arrives in the TX we can adapt the to the load we want to discuss a bit more 6p time out for the back of mechanism that we have and so the last one is really a variable name change so to summarize we or you want to ask question that\u0027s done may be wrong yes question to me so I just a quick question about the morbid this thing that lets you continue which is a great idea if you don\u0027t get the AK do you keep on insisting oh yeah yeah yeah and that\u0027s defined in 15 in I Triple E 15 that\u0027s already like this so all we do here is that we point to the HIV document and we mandate it say we need to use that mechanism but we don\u0027t change anything to the return mechanism so to summarize we have integrated a SF into MSF we have a number of issues all of them quite minor that will be fixed in the next version and wanted to discuss a possible call for adoption so let\u0027s maybe start by opening the mics for questions are there any questions I don\u0027t see but I don\u0027t hear any questions so that\u0027s Cal we in in London we said that we couldn\u0027t adopt yet because MSF and ASF were not merged but at the moment can you hear me I don\u0027t see why we could not know exactly and so now that it\u0027s merged I think we\u0027ve already went through the adoption process where I would my opinion is that this is this has already been discussed and this should be adopted immediately yes Kyle what you\u0027re will confirm well well will confirm the call on the list and check that nobody opposed we can have a short period just to validate it like let\u0027s give us give people a week or something you have a good reason why it should not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:43",
    "text": "be adopted because if no expectation that anything will show up we don\u0027t have to give it a month so that\u0027s just you know under the mailing list at that meeting to do for us confirm the call for adoption and give people a week and next week next Wednesday if nothing shows up if we need to publish it exactly like it is just changing the number so you may take the text file and change the date and the number to be sure it shows nothing else and you change the name of course so I\u0027m Shepard of this and the the status is candidate for work group adoption in the data tracker so pending confirmation on the mailing list we\u0027ll just switch it over to work group document in a week so that\u0027s nice when you push the draft IETF bla will get a man will have to push a button so it\u0027s gonna take a little bit of time time for us to wake up so can we write in the minutes and actually I am for the child the next is many sure so many shots that said you have at least till 2:30 local time just a little bit of more time if you really wish alright thank you can you confirm you hear me well yes okay great yeah so we published those six I mean it\u0027s been I think like two months sometime in May with this is this was mainly the input during ITF 101 in London and then the two reviews that we received on the mailing list one worse one was from Java villages Anna and the other one was from Piscotty over at the in London we discussed heavily the data structures in their extensibility and this is the main change that we implemented it lo six ever since we worked heavily on the on the on the running code we have an open source implementation in open WSM of the constraint joint protocol which is how we call the the secure joint protocol now during the sixties plug test as Thomas mentioned that was held in Paris end of June we tested this with an implementation from one SME that was based on a Kentucky operating system and we successfully achieved the interoperability of the constraint joint protocol working group last call was on for a couple of weeks in June if I remember correctly and there was a lot of activity about the draft we received seven reviews from the people listed here and one of these reviews I was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:45",
    "text": "completely neglected it was from Klaus that ended up in my in my spam folder so I just saw it today basically but I updated this little slides as fast as I could with with these changes so the goal of my presentation for today is to do a quick really quick summary of updates for us since all five and then to spend a good chunk of my time discussing the issues that have been opened during the working group Lascaux you know yeah thanks so the the first change was related to the read definition of Siebert structures we had a couple of drafts published mainly the Travis Draft on global time that want to extend the structures that we use in minimal security and the previous in all five what we were quite rigid with the sibour arrays as the top-level struct so what we decided to do is to switch the arrays to maps maps and then to add registries in the draft for registering basically see board parameters and right now there are two registries if I remember correctly one for the labels of the top-level parameters that end up in this configuration object that is returned as the drawing response payload and then another registry is actually for the values for one of these parameters and as an example now what we have as an example of these parameters we have like the link layer key set we have the short address J RCS address etcetera etcetera another change that we did in terms of the Seaboard structures was to optimize the inner object so while changing from maps from arrays to maps introduced some overhead in order to cancel this out what we did is we optimized dinners structures or these spur parameters that are passed as the maps and with that we defined for example one news structure that is called the link layer key that we use instead of the cosy key that was published in another draft and the structure that we defined is much more optimal in terms of the message overhead because we use just a sequence of elements and their type and their seaboard type in order to decode to decode the element or the parameter basically so basically what you will typically have in your drawing response you will have an array of these sequences and based on the type if it\u0027s an unsigned integer you can tell that this is key index that should be signaled in the 15 for auxiliary security header or if it\u0027s a byte string you know that this is the key value and then we have defined a special semantics for processing these parameters in case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:46",
    "text": "of 802 the 15.4 you have someone on the mic I don\u0027t know if you can see Terrell but there isn\u0027t yes I see yes okay there are cue minute one other question I have because you have only key index here and in 15 for you can have you know different key ID modes where we can actually have a this key next means that you have a global key is 256 at Sakura 54 in the whole network there is also a way of having this kind of keys that are not owned by the controller but owned by somebody else if you have a multicast group or something like that which 10 requires should have either you know upon ID plus step source address short address or the external address of the owner of the key do we have any plans for supporting those and if so do we actually want to you know specify how they are transmitted here in case we actually some at some point especially if you think about we don\u0027t have a it\u0027s a coordinator and you know the a or C are separated it might actually be you know have a keys that are actually owned by the you know jrc is different and that you might have actually have a broadcast keys that are used in other one and they are not necessary coordinate together same address pool okay so if I understand correctly your question you are asking if we want to support the pairwise King and other modes other than key index is that correct a pair of ASCII sucks yes actually Pulaski sees other thing yes but I mean if this is the other type of you know because I\u0027m missing two fives for you know keys you have there is global to the whole network but anyone actually have you know this kind of longer identifiers for the key meaning the owner plus the key index at the over you know either four or eight bytes of not owner identify see they are not used during the minimal floor I do that keys that would be used later they are something that they use played around but I understand this is also for rekeying and activities for most likely the same structure is going to be used for all kind of keying so that\u0027s why I was thinking part should we think about here how to extend this even if we say now that we always use key index and the critical parties but in a future especially with the Seaboard stuff to make sure that you actually you know can make so we don\u0027t we don\u0027t end up Oh suddenly we have this you know we can\u0027t put on you know for example this eight bytes of owner Improvement Center because people would assume it\u0027s a key because the key is the minor string so we have to put it note this is the things that you have to dig about here yeah no I mean no just to be clear I mean this is something that I already considered when I was defining this link layer key structure and my intention was at first to mimic the data structure that you have defined in 802 2015 for in order to allow full support for any kind of king that is enabled in 15-4 but then the best driver had was huge and I decided that for the link layer key we should just take for the key index "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:46",
    "text": "maybe it would be better to maybe then we could rename it to be more appropriate that it reflects that this kind of object is only for from the index mode and we could define other objects other structures that would carry the parameters needed to set those kind of keys if there is interest in the working yeah actually I always think about one of the GU that actually was to say after a key value because that\u0027s always there so now that there\u0027s one in butter string but after that you could have a key owner which would be a debate it will be string that will either be four octet or eight doctors depending if it\u0027s you know Quixote IDE mode one or two they want that if they are missing you are using tid mod 0 so that will actually be great then it wouldn\u0027t make this but if I understand correctly see but it\u0027s not if the optional feels after you know the last if you aren\u0027t there the structure isn\u0027t getting any larger just change I see okay so you\u0027re saying basically that even though that field is a byte string that based on the length of the byte shrink we can say this field below is this can be decoded yes yes okay okay I see okay so for what I consider mostly was the type of the of the field with yeah and then with byte string if you have two consecutive by strings you don\u0027t know which one is which if the one starts but I mean let me let me get back to you on that I\u0027m not sure if we want to do that right now for minimum-security this would be the fully blown our support for all the security features since this is the kind of like the idea of this is minimal and with the changes to the to have the top level structure as Maps I mean this can easily be extended in another RFC so I\u0027m looking here mostly for the input from others if there is interested in supporting other key modes then index this is let\u0027s keep that into the meaning list gets a minor issue compared to the others you know it\u0027s not actually needed for this work anyway so it could be actually trouble if you define something that you don\u0027t choose people later in the review process will say hey why do you define this people may use it and then you don\u0027t need it so addressing you know at the RSC which needs it extend this one for putting it\u0027s this option that you do so so I mean just to conclude my personal feeling for this is I\u0027m okay to add a new data structure but not to mix it with in this one that is already there and it is very optimal and that corresponds to the most most most frequently used key setting yeah but let\u0027s continue that under male can I have the next slide yeah thanks yeah so ii trained major change was that we homogenized the protocol to support the joining of the six lvr or the coordinator and basically i went through the trouble of checking in the document what text applies equally to the node to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:46",
    "text": "the pledge that is joining as a non 6lb our node and to the 6lb our pledge and there are quite some there are some changes also i we added one parameter that is the role parameter that is sent in the join request the differentiates basically and we told this we what we do is that we enable the same protocol to be used to to bootstrap the 6lb are now the parameters that the 6lb our pledge gets in response are different of course from those that non 6lb our pledge gets and there was some discussion on the mailing list and changes were not heavy but there were some changes and special in the terminology part where I had to differentiate between pledge that only means non 6ob our pledge six lbr etc yeah next slide so Felicia clarify aggression yes about previously a change to so the except for the editorial changes the only thing that that changes is the contents of the drawn response right you just you just have different the GRC gives you different values how does the GRC the line please yeah the Jersey knows yeah agree that you\u0027re a dreamer drawing requests can you hear me yep yeah in the join request basically there is a parameter called the role that if it is not that if it\u0027s not present means not sick so we are just regular part if it is set it\u0027s the six lbr and then there is a cent and just saying that this communication happens are over another network interface just not not 15.4 but it\u0027s the same protocol it\u0027s the same yeah that is used on any other pledges yeah so you see the join request here you have the role if the role is not present the the value of non 6lb are is assumed meaning just regular proj joins and then if 600 on its at it sets it to one thank you yeah okay and then the turn major change is on wreaking and basically we added here a mechanism that was discussed heavily after ITF 101 in order to allow the jrc to update any of the parameters during network lifestyle and with this mechanism basically me also implement wreaking so let me explain briefly how it works pledge once the pledge completes the drawing process where it during the training process the pledge acted as a co-op client once it gets the keys and to successfully joins it switches the co-op role and becomes a co-op server and exposes the /j resource now jrc is aware of the ipv6 address of the node implicitly because it knows the network prefix and the network short address and the extended agora so it can construct it and it is able to reach out to any of the network nodes to send a co-op "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:47",
    "text": "message so now this co-op message is is completely a different conference it from the one that was using in terms of joining when pledge was joining in terms that it does not contain same options and it\u0027s just pure co-op it\u0027s confirmable there are less security issues compared to those were joining and what they are see basically does it just sends a post request where it encapsulating the payload the configuration object configuration c bar object with the parameters and now for every parameter there is semantics on how it should be handled when received as part of this update parameter update request message with this mechanism we allow jrc to reach out the synchronously to any node in the network and to update the parameters and with with that we implement rekey when for example we implement them just by specifying the rules of that the node follows when it receives a link layer key of for example as part of this parameter update request and there there is a differentiation between regular network nodes and the 6lb are to implement drinking and what happens is that basically 6lb R will install the new key immediately once it drizzle once it receives it and starts using it all the other nodes will install the key but they will wait and before using it for outgoing traffic until they see encrypted or protected frames the passed layer 2 security verifications with the new key at that moment when they see traffic encrypted with the new key they just switch and start using the new key for all outgoing traffic now there was a comment by Tara on this I\u0027ll get back to that later and the same mechanism here is used what the short addresses or basically any other parameter so one quick question about this in London we had as an actual item for you to evaluate the user fetch you you went for a different cup message instead of Flash is that correct yes that\u0027s correct I mean we used fetch in order so basically we first attempted to do this as as an observation of the drawing resource at JRC so basically that we would include the observe option in the request in the join request this was the first attempt but then since the drawing request was opposed we cannot observe a post and that\u0027s where fetch came in but then there were problems in observing from an endpoint that has a different ipv6 address because pledge used a link local "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:49",
    "text": "ipv6 address for joining that goes over proxy when it becomes a network node it just goes straight to the jrc so then there were difficulties in the co-op in being compliant with co-op and doing this so finally what we resorted that the pledge exposes /je once it joins and then jrc does a post a simple post on this resource thank you yeah and then the for change is just editorial I mean we aligned there are many editorial edits and clarifications we align the key derivative derivation with oscar 13 registries etcetera etcetera and then we rebranded the drawing protocol as constraint or and protocol with abbreviation kojic yeah so with that I will switch to the working group last comments I don\u0027t know how much time I have both call plan I think you used you have 20 to 25 minutes crying question about what score last time we talked you depended on the chance that was to come on the score so I understand that that changes cough 13 and now we have aligned right and the text in yeah you know 6 is oh yeah it\u0027s aligned it\u0027s aligned it can be clarified even better which I will do as part of the working loop group last call but I mean there is no major I mean oh 6 can be implemented with 13 without any problems so you have 20 to 25 minutes okay yeah so we had as I said we had 7 reviews as part of the working group last call one of the major ones is what to do with the stateless proxy option so just to sum up we want to remove any state from the drapey and enable it to act truly stateless Lee when forwarding the messages during the joint protocol and this is important in terms of the denial of service protection because traffic from pledges is of course unauthenticated and if some state is kept at the drawing proxy then just an attacker can flood it and prevent other pledges from a regular pledges from joining but the semantics this is a new prop option that we define in minimal security and it\u0027s processing is quite similar to the co-op\u0027s token coop token from the base RFC 72-52 but the problem is that the value that we need to put in the option does not fit eight-byte toh coop token that is defined by 72 52 so then there were two questions one raised by your on cylinder about whether we can use the token is the end of this new or instead of stateless proxy which is possible in some cases but not in all and then the second comment comment was from Klaus who raised a point about duplicating features in coop with this option since "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:51",
    "text": "we are defining a new co-op option that can be used for the general purpose coop and also here is the point that this option may not always be a hold back in some cases where there are errors or when the intermediate proxies do not implement it so just to brief the working group on this we had we are working together with core with core experts on this issue and we had a meeting this afternoon on trying to find the best way to proceed and the attempt here is to find something that is both that works both for general purpose squad and for our use case in succession in minimal security so I mean I will keep the working group posted will here we have some side meetings on this and also I will present the our views case during the core may team tomorrow evening tomorrow evening yeah so the second issue is was raised by Tara on the decision on the decision that is important for the drapy so let me sum this up JP needs to accept frames that are not secured at link layer for the duration of the joint process but now the duration of the drawing process is vague and we had a couple of discussions on this how do we pass the information that the Jaypee should enable the drawing process and that it should accept unprotected layer two frames this was discussed heavily during the ITF 99 in Prague where we explore different options one of them was just to abuse the drawing metric that is present in DBS and basically to use one value of the drawn metric to signal that drawing is not allowed and when for example a drawing proxy would see this zero zero hex FF for example in the enhanced beacon of its preferred the ripple parent it would not accept any any unprotected layer two frames and therefore not accept any new pledges into the network Michael was active on this also Pascal had a couple of comments and as a result of the discussion Mike who published the draft where that is extending significantly the drawing metric and adding a lots of different semantics on it in order to add more to enable more complex features like proxy giving priority the priorities between proxies depending on traffic loads etcetera etcetera so this hasn\u0027t been adopted yet I think michael has a presentation afterwards or whoever is filling in for Michael and this is one part that we are currently missing as as Tara said so I proposed here three options that we how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:53",
    "text": "we can proceed we can keep working on this as part of Michael\u0027s draft we can include a simple solution in minimal security where we abuse van value of the drawing metric to signal drawing is not allowed and this we don\u0027t in case for example it comes from the repo parent so it could propagate similarly to how we propagate time in six dish and then basically what it would wear what it could enable is a button press on the coordinator physical button press would switch this the drawing process so on first on the coordinator and then this information will propagate down the mesh towards holdin all the Dre piece and the plan new pledges would the frames of new pledges that are not protected at layer two would be accepted and then the third of would be to do this at the Qadri player in coop to define for example a quadric parameter that would be sent as the parameter update in the parameter update request message that would say to the Jaypee start acting as the Jaypee or an update and allow these kind of frames and we could add that semantic is there for example how much time etcetera etcetera so I mean I\u0027m really looking for input from others on on this on the best way to to go ahead this document actually I think you actually a little bit misunderstood what I actually was asking it or it\u0027s already original you know thing was more or less how the Jaypee knows if there is you know one of these peers actually you know when it starts doing you know this turning process the joining node connects the IP and then it starts something and I was assuming that the chip is usually they stores even if you say it\u0027s completely slightest you can actually I didn\u0027t really understand if you can actually make it completely status and so next we are assuming that it has some kind of state and it needs in fact we were talking in the secured neighbor cars and so on it needs to know when it can actually remove that state when it needs to stop allowing that node to be sending it unencrypted payloads and and at that because that congressional spare node he doesn\u0027t need to know if the whole network is you know all that proquest might still be are you know access allowing you know joins but he doesn\u0027t want to you know that one node to do that anymore because it\u0027s already done because he just doesn\u0027t want to keep keep opening you know Tipton you know whole open for somebody to attack him by sending you know faking to be they know that joints couple of minutes earlier and send in clear text packets so that\u0027s what I was thinking but you know of course now it\u0027s very easy you know said one frame and one frame comes back but in the future it might be something that we actually have a multiple round trips going bad and I I think it\u0027s actually bad idea to have a JP you know not knowing whether it\u0027s usually is easier if they if a JP knows "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:54",
    "text": "when when the process is finished and also he needs to know if it was successfully done it failed because if it failed he probably went to blacklist aha node with what happens there if you have a wrong key or something like that in the chaining node he joins tries to joins Costa jrc Jersey says wrong key which goes back he gets from key okay I will break for ten seconds and try again and then the Senate tries again consuming resources and editing is done he said oh I write there for 30 seconds come back again and then he\u0027s doing that for a couple of months until somebody actually no they said oh we have this node there that is actually been trying to join because we didn\u0027t actually configure it in the TRC ever so that\u0027s why I was thinking about okay the Tony JP might actually want to blacklist that node and set up a que yes even if you try to join to me I\u0027m not answering to you because go away do something else I don\u0027t want to hear about you and this is this is the thing he needs to know if that\u0027s actually is know if it for failing or succeeding if you can actually do this kind of blacklisting enter coccyx that can be done totally internally right I mean is there a way to signal anything on specify anything I don\u0027t see that we have a need to specify anything for doing that because the chip is on the way if he wants to keep a blacklist you can keep a blacklist means completely optional its decision without a mandate that yeah if he ever extra for example make it so that okay be back have a the joining process might be actually do step process you first identic out indicates something and then you TRC says okay here so first off then you do the second step on subtract that like next pin card type of thing out and the guy said if JC puts in the first after the first you know okay this is the first exchanged on okay he\u0027s trying again I will blacklist him we can\u0027t actually do this kind of extensive since but but do you need anything in the spec to do that or usually use but what I was thinking but it would be useful to have in the response coming back from the GRC to have something for the Jaypee to say that okay yes this process is now done when you have reverted this process this packet to the you know do the turning node and it was done successfully or no it was veiled or Canaries I don\u0027t see I mean the the part where we disagree is how is this information relevant to JP I mean semantically this is not JP is this decision you can for you typically if you have a 50 node Network 50 nodes can play the role of the JP and now you are saying that each of these 50 nodes will be doing an authorization decisions who should we do should be joining and who should be blacklisted to me this is a centralized decision for the GRC and if it\u0027s a centralized decision it should be the GRC who decide okay I\u0027m getting too many "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:55",
    "text": "packets from this pledge this means something is wrong let\u0027s blacklist it and in my email I gave a proposal how we can implement this but the main part where we disagree is on I don\u0027t see this as a decision for JP this is nothing to do for me with the JP it\u0027s at the I agree that it could be done without but I have noticed it in some places it actually is easier if you actually know what even if the it just proxying things for example in in my question two we have it we approximately exchange and one of the things we actually need to do we need to know when the process is either successful or failed so we can actually know okay for successful now we need to do some other automatic tricks there behind the scenes to be able to do some other things and that kind of thing see even if you\u0027re just proctoring you no doubt integration information true we still might need to have a you know but it\u0027s useful useful to have a clue of what\u0027s going on there how many but I don\u0027t see how it\u0027s really and I think it might be different here but so where I was just thinking about this something I wanted to ask if if it actually would be useful to have this but I I think you you are feeling that there is no need for JPEG to know anything about that at the moment I don\u0027t see because I mean when the pledge drawings I mean it may never ever communicate with this JP again I mean this is the key point I mean this was one node that was selected based on the information in has beacons from the moment the pledge joins it can decrypt di it selects a triple parent according to the ripple specs it may never again communicate to the Jaypee and 2jp that is just I mean I don\u0027t see what should the why should this all be relevant but I mean we got we diverged a little bit from from infra my slide here because the issue that I think you raised here was when how does JP know whether it should accept the unprotected frames at layer two and this is this is a valid concern solo I\u0027m sorry yes there so I think I think it\u0027s a twist on what they\u0027re always talking about this it\u0027s essentially the same thing right it is switching on and off the capability to two to four notes to join at the Jaypee level whether it\u0027s a decision made by the chair C or not my question is is this mechanism or this policy I mean if I wanted to implement this kind of behavior I have all the tools at my disposal to do this in an implementation you do not yet know at the moment no at the moment no I mean if so I mean you have the drawing metric you would have to abuse what one value of the drawing method for this and what this is one resolution that I was proposing earlier is basically to say zero hex FF in the B in hands because what the draw metric means I don\u0027t accept any plunges everything else is according to 8180 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:55",
    "text": "but then we said we wanted this to be more complex to allow different use cases and this is Michael\u0027s draft which is very thin I mean something we could progress quite rapidly because most of the work which relates to Michael\u0027s draft is actually the work at all but here we just need to present the interface in the beacon to say basically signal we want to join or not join preference that\u0027s it I mean we can and then we can we can publish that document very quickly so we don\u0027t delay minimal the point many shine is that option one and option three are not equivalent I know I know it\u0027s a different party virtually what an option to for me are quite similar big I mean it\u0027s Indian hands because it was but you would still need some if the day our scene is in the cloud you would need to trigger this somehow if it\u0027s the jrc the decides when the dawn should be enabled yes you can hunt for instance and steal in the future create a improvement on addition to minimal and that that\u0027s three because it\u0027s it\u0027s really a something that you can always define later we can move minimal the way it is today without that and always define it later it\u0027s kind of a global toggle my network is stable I don\u0027t want to enjoy and that\u0027s that\u0027s a global decision by by lesser entity an Almond beacon is more like this network is more loaded than this one so in terms of balancing you\u0027d better join here and actually this proxy is doing a number of rows already it can hardly take more this one is as more resources just use the other modest join but it\u0027s what it\u0027s worth you\u0027re alone and not in an speak and dance so it has to do with with particular notion of critical node not policy or new strategic decision of taking or not taking new joint yes yeah I see so these are two different metrics that yeah we need to to and and we mostly need to move you know either we decide to move the rest of Michael very quickly or we go for option two which would be sad but I think the writer is to move draft which are done very quickly okay and what do you feel about option three where DRC reaches out to every node too much overhead and draft that you can do later but this would be just a single pocket yeah yeah so let me reinforce this I think we\u0027re very very very close to having this ready this is this is it seems to me like this is another feature and other capability it does not it\u0027s not like the draft is broken it\u0027s that this could enhance the draft in some way so I would I would I would say this could be a different document that I wouldn\u0027t want to to stop the progress of minim or stop the we\u0027re in workgroup last call right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:56",
    "text": "so so if we decide to work on this we have to go back to the working group and go and not a workgroup a school whereas I think we\u0027re there yet we can we can push this and then have if this seems interesting we can have an extension and and everything that you\u0027re describing are all extensions it doesn\u0027t it doesn\u0027t have to be part of the today\u0027s document that\u0027s right beacon can describe that piece by itself for what it does and as part of the the option three option three is part of your management manageability so if you want to do anything in this draft about option three anything you can do is have a manageability section well you say which kind of objects in minimum can be managed from the outside and just say okay there is this this bit which means enough that can be managed from the outside and and the protocol to manage that bit will be just like the protocol to manage on Twitter things in the object yes but I think option we can implement option three this is one paragraph yeah it can be just you manage this bit and it will be managed like with whatever object management we\u0027re going to use right kamyelle okay okay eh much just to manage them okay all right so we continue this on the main linguist I suppose yes please but but but let\u0027s let\u0027s get this shipped right okay you your first four minutes and you have seven more items yeah there\u0027s no way I can I can get it yeah so yeah this is the so let me just think I think this is yeah this is the the point raised by Tara about layer to state so let me just sum it up briefly sum it up basically Tara raises a point that with a compliant 802 15 for security implementation JP needs to keep some state I responded to this email just today I don\u0027t know if Tara we had time to see it I think there is a mechanism that this could be implemented fully compliant with 15.4 the one that I sent in the email today but I also like to note that there are many existing implementations where this performance hit the truth describe where simply can be can be bypassed because it is possible to add something in the Mac layer where you could signal where you could pass this frame upwards even though it\u0027s not super compliant with 15 for APS next yes so another issue but error I think we agree on this he just proposes to add a simple delay or configurable delay when a node in the network receives the new key before removing the old key in order to account for possible losses and that some nodes might receive the key before others so yeah I think we agree on this I mean we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:58",
    "text": "can implement this in the next version 5 yes Travie raised the point about the error handling it to the code level basically this is the semantical handling of the errors of the parameters passed as part of project I mostly agree I agree definitely with this we focus so far on the errors on the Oscar level when we try to protect from from denial of service and there we had a couple of exchanges and the main conclusion of that part was basically we don\u0027t send any errors that are related to us core processing because they can be they can just open the denial service vectors the yes handling yes so the Travie raised the point about how should the jrc handle if the node in the network cannot be reached for example if he tries to rekey it we agreed on the mailing list that this is an implementation this decision but that we should explicit it so the implementers are aware of it next next please yes so this issue was raised by Jim shot this is an important one about non 3 use basically the right now in the draft we have we mandate that all your score security parameters are written to persistent memory both at JRC and at the pledge and this is an important security required now what the Jim raises is that if jrc for some reason dies and all of this information is lost what happens jrc dies six cell addresses in the cloud it dies 6o BR continues to operate so the network is operational now the same company brings a new DRC how do how does it continue it doesn\u0027t know the state the security state with the nodes and if it tries to use the keys that it has from some database it will reuse the partial IV and therefore non non three use will occur and the confidentiality on 20 city basically all security will be lost for those dreams so now the the question for the grouping for the group is how do we handle this we can there are a couple of cases here and I don\u0027t think we have time now but maybe the best is to continue the discussion on the on the list is it enough to maintain that all of these parameters are written not this is already mandated but basically - yeah I didn\u0027t I don\u0027t think this room uh yeah so let me let me get back to this on the mailing list I have doubts here should this case be accounted for this means they are see going down all the parameters lost can we mandate that for with some out of vent mechanism the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:59",
    "text": "coordinator needs to force all the nodes to rejoin when shall we have Mike here Jim shot um last night I\u0027ve came up with a way I believe this can be solved by forcing one additional round trip the first time jrc to tries to do parameter update I\u0027ll get it out to the lists in the next couple of days perfect okay thanks thank you Jim this was this issue was raised by thank Faye basically with the updates where the quadruped supports the joining of the 6lb are we enabled the 6lb are to be bootstrap and we were missing a couple of parameters that are needed by the network and that the GRC can configure into the network such as the time flow template channel hopping template etc etc and with this we I think we have all the parameters needed to have a fully autonomous they are seen the cloud and managing multiple multiple networks and updating the keys etcetera etcetera are there any objections objections to this or tomorrow yes or no no chair hat on so this is the beginning of an infinite list of feature requests for adding this and that parameter my personal opinion is that you know let\u0027s let\u0027s let\u0027s have something minimal working if this is you know really a an issue then somebody can write a different draft what what this is what this is talking about is I have a six it\u0027s a very very specific use case right I have a 6 lb are that joins somehow a GRC and the Gerasenes to configure the 6 lb are and configuration can be all the way to like what was the color on the box you know there\u0027s so many things that are can be configured if we start creating a list and maintaining I Ana register it you know it will never stop so my personal bidding is that lets not enter enter you know all of these configurations because in 15 for e in 53 there\u0027s money more than these things that we can change right what about this what about that so my personal being is let\u0027s not go there saying we have a long history of overloading triple a mechanism with with configuration and using them or misusing them as configuration tools let\u0027s build a young model about six AVR and let\u0027s use Akamai or something to to configure the 6 ampere what we learn from the join process is the 6 lvl to be identified as a 6 lb our and to be able securely connect once we do that then we can use a yarn that we can always extend to go and configure these things and all the rest okay very good reason why it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:00",
    "text": "belongs there now I understand for things like like the shorter tries but if you start generalizing it to anything I know alright oh I guess then there was an extensive review by William on the bitbucket page I responded I mean we have a couple of Tamizh ations that we can do I mean this is not major I mean I will discuss this with Oscar otters if some of these can can happen second optimization ok can I just go back I mean one second yeah was regarding the short addressed least I\u0027m currently this list time is encoded in seconds from the instant the quadric message was received at basically at the pledge can we run this two minutes hours or days maybe is there any objection to this I mean these are very long live networks I mean it takes hours to bring them up sometimes so having 11 again looks like stealing yeah so I mean this would just prevent all saying like 7 hours and 15 minutes and 33 seconds so we would really American gracious Emily yes what\u0027s what are we trying to solve here what\u0027s the problem so it\u0027s the least time Terrence\u0027s brought this point up he wanted to add the least time to the short address assignment it\u0027s an optional parameter if it\u0027s not present it means infinite life and if it\u0027s president probably seconds oh does the the overhead because it\u0027s a large number and then the yeah the final one but this goes along the adding features this is William who requested if if there is interest in the group to support fragmentation by by quarter block wise and we for now we implicitly assume the fragmentation being done at the 612 a layer when it occurs in the default cases we ensure that the presentation does not happen but when it occurs with fully blown object we we assumed the six open layer now he was asking about using block wise and this would indeed enable the protocol to be with the non IP networks but I don\u0027t know if there isn\u0027t pressed borders okay mention the mister is a question you need to stop there yes yeah yeah sorry okay yeah so no question in the room well we get work items there is nothing really blocking I really hope that your co-op meeting goes well and please let us know as soon as she\u0027s done how it went with this means Thanks so Michael cannot be with us I built a number of slides on his behalf and since we gave the time too many sure I will skim them through them very very already so the biggest news for the zero touch is that anumana is is well advanced "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "Russkies gone through welcome Ascot and the constrain culture on which we depend for this work as in adopt yet and Michael\u0027s hope is that it will work up my score this year so yes your touch security o2 established gotas gone so maybe Michael is looking for new co-author and to remain an important thing to see is that this document is completely aligned to the with the oedema document just when you do this within an email using it on HTTP here is how you\u0027re going to do the same thing with us there is how you will format this here\u0027s the protocol that will match the sort of protocol etc everything everything is much one-to-one that\u0027s pretty much what this document does it does not really range on the world 3 maps the methods to our world and basically you will find this explanation of the different pieces of protocol which are done by which work which document the Messiah is where the vendor with its what were the original authentication lines and small argent for us is the work on a nun speakin so we just said we\u0027ve got this dependency on minimum security so that we can actually expose join preference and extended notion of joint preference on the beacons so that when you get this note coming in and trying to find a trend proxy it will hopefully find the right network in the middle of physical networks and then inside that right network it would find a proxy which is not too busy which hopefully is not too far from the route etc so it will figure out which is the best possible gentry occifer it it\u0027s not meant as a administrative method for preventing joints but it could be used that way by just having a virgin proxy not announce themselves or announce that they are free visit one go back through that because we don\u0027t have time so that the document has changed a little bit to extend the the capabilities of the option as it was presented last time so here is what it looks like now can go through slides will not have time now so you\u0027re interested please go through site Debbie else so for six dish what the only thing we have to do is really expose this little agree on the field but there is no rocket science in there agree on the field put that in the beaker and set so it\u0027s really something that we can we can do there rapidly the point being that we will have a normative reference on it in minimal so that tree means that minimum will not get the RFC number and yeah this thing gets its RFC number so the four except to depend on it based on militias proposal earlier then we need to progress them thing and go through "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:02",
    "text": "with it it was called for adoption mid-june so the call is passed I\u0027ve not seen anybody objecting so the indeed try stuff progressing the document is adopted and that comes from that on the list and so we\u0027ll ask Michael to publish a zero-zero blah blah blah as usual question discussion chubby bunnies yours okay do you hear me well yes okay this is a status update of the global time Draft this rant was published in in the previews idea before the previews IDF and presented there this is not this is a non charter item but we think it\u0027s it\u0027s an extension or a relevant feature that would bring some new applications to these networks we publish this update following the mailing list comments we received and we produced the version 1 and also adjusted the format of of the options that we define in this draft to the the code chip format that militia already presented it\u0027s it\u0027s dependent I guess because we\u0027re discussing the previous meeting that we if we want to use these through the the constraint joint protocol we need that that the GRC is also the global time manager or the global time no note in the network that is able to do this mapping between ASN and global time and if we want this to work from the beginning when the node joins then it has this dependency that you have to transport these options as part of the constraint joint protocol so so I I did I followed the comments on the mailing list and I remove some of the options we had mainly because they had security issues basically we were enabling to have this global time service as an external thing out of the GRC and indicating what is the address and the service that is exposed but this had other security problems like red erection or you know the the the note is not authenticated by the by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "by this new service so that would require some new keys and I remove that part so the interaction is now from the node from the 6n note through the global time service that is exposed by the GRC I updated the data I don\u0027t know if I have more slides maybe you can do the next go to the previous one and yeah so no the next one so the main issue is that now the interaction has changed before when I when a node had this global time option installed it was subtle this time and it was asking to the GRC to get an update when the least time expires but now the interaction model through the parameter updates that malicious expose are in the other way so my my guess is that I need to switch that now and make that GRC updates the the global time to the to the node when the lease expires so that\u0027s one of the things I need to do in the next version but another more critical thing that I want to discuss not today but in the following sixty meetings is how we ensure that the GRC can know the mapping between the ASN and the global time and I can understand that the GRC can have this global time through ntp or through any external protocol that brings to it global time but the GRC needs to know as well the ASN of the network and this is something that we need to make sure it\u0027s it\u0027s doable and possible is that on question this let\u0027s continue on the meaning this is very interesting work but yeah Vanessa I will ask you to be very very quick because there is yes okay okay can you hear me well perfect okay well this says this is a draft about all the considerations federal implementers will have to take into account when considering implementing Cistus were more than one physical layer so well this is the content of a draft so this is the considerations they cover pretty much all the all the Cystic protocol stack next please so what cysts each protocol stack only defines from the link layer up to the application layer but is the fact of physical layer the one or 15 for 2006 occupied over 50 kilos per second hundreds and bytes but then no amendments at the 54g includes no physical layers with different characteristics and different of abilities such as well and with whatever that arise from 6.95 skills per second up to 800 liters per second and a frame length of 2 3 7 bytes also there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:05",
    "text": "are new relatives such as well autumn would be from open mode that they can be went both 15 452 4G and forcibly person to predict Hertz so this makes possible to have assisted network where nodes will have can have multiple physical layers at the same time and so links can happen in dual bands and can happen over different physical layers so one of the first considerations to take into account will be the definition of neighbors so here for example we see that no stabian see when using physical layer a node a is enabled to be be neighbors a and c and c only neighbor speed next please and then consider another physical layer they might implement everybody neighbors everybody so then next please then now what happened when and when this knows can implement in the same network more than one physical layer so the the definition of neighbors changes to any node which is within the same interference domain but for a given person for the precise physical layer so this changes how neighbors store their or manage the nodes March their neighbors information so going to the max Bleyer the considerations is at the moment of the network formation for example knows that in the coding 6 applications they have to listen for V\u0027s so well we know that nose will listen in a round robin fashion for wannabe over one of the 16 frequencies but now this this list or this amount of frequencies no scan and listen to we\u0027ll multiply will expand if we include multiple physical layers and with multiple frequencies no so this may be very heavily in terms of energy so here future implementers they\u0027ll have to come up with a mechanism to ink well to to improve the joining process and and yeah and to shorten this time okay well one of the things about as well is about the timing celebrations because here since we have such a variable data rates from 6.5 seconds up to a thousand if we favor a slow slow data rate then when we use in faster data rates all day all the time a lot will be will be lost no so we would decrease the amount of well let\u0027s say the efficiency of the network so also since we have what which since we have different physical layers having different characteristics also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:05",
    "text": "for the channel hopping sequences they can they cannot have it we cannot identify them just by a numbers because for different physical layers might my diff might mean the different things also for record for resource allocation in the six tops layer is that resources are measured in the amount of cells but when having multiple physical layers cells don\u0027t mean only cells don\u0027t mean anything because for a specific time is lock duration for a low data rate can you can pass less information that when having a high laterites also here we think in the six tops layer we miss a kind of mechanism hard to cope with a regulatory norms or legislation because if we use sub digger frequency bands these are very highly regulated so there must be a mechanism that takes into account this this regulation next please well this is my last slide and also for 6lowpan considerations now that since it was defined with a 15-4 to be skin mind now with having multiple physical layers and capable of sending more than hundred sm bytes per frame so 6lowpan should adapt to send more bytes per per frame know when doing the fragmentation and also pile to end this presentation about the ripple considerations is here we foreseen that you audit function should be should be written or taking into account their resource occupancy or the true booth and energy consumption of of the multiple physical layers there is something in sixty five fifty two about it yeah yeah about the run was called the rank a metric yeah the rank the rank factor you can refer to run factor for different files exactly so yeah let\u0027s present today will be - so Tom I\u0027m sorry but I guess we have time for the fragmentation we gave an update at six low so I expect some people in this room we\u0027re already at sits low so that rock well for today is it okay absolutely yeah Sedaka well my presentation should be quick so what happened is that I were struggling to understand the retransmission algorithm defining the 15.4 standards so I asked for help on the merriest and then these slides captures my current understandings so if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:08",
    "text": "you are interested in the algorithm itself or when you are implementing this algorithm please take a look at this slide which could be helpful so and also the the Terrell told me that now the ITP 15.4 MD that\u0027s a group now working on the revising the standard text that so we would have the clear and the result revised the text and the figures of the the algorithm in the the future release yet releasing a couple years so do you have any estimation devil no it could be done this year so the the revising the standard document oh the revised of the standard documents that mr. document there starting working on it now to have latter part starting between this meeting of the first week and September and then they I think the plan is to have it out when 2020 you know they say 15 for 2020 sounds cool so it\u0027s going to take a couple of you know time but of course you know the Texas code the base table should be you know and so on by the end of this year or thank you so Tara I have a question for you actually the what is the right way for so so yeah ound some things that are not very clear and and try to clarify them is there are you the right person to convey those messages is there an inbox where you can drop these things or what do you recommend as a as feedback or or will you start as liaison so there is there should have been a formal lioness and there some requests coming to IETF saying that okay this is the current version of the craft which we are going to be editing do you have any comments it probably has been disappeared somewhere in the IETF you know no administrative or such like that so I don\u0027t actually know what would be the formal process of doing but I will be in Thai Tripoli meetings I will be actually being low-income and I can put in the comments if you have any comments that you found out there if they send it to me I can put them in as a comments for myself and table bit and acted on and then there is if there is you know there is a the Tripoli has a mailing list that you I think you can actually show in that but it doesn\u0027t but most of their meeting most of the stuff happens in them axle meetings and because the meetings don\u0027t have they don\u0027t allow any kind of remote participation do that you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:08",
    "text": "can\u0027t use phones you can\u0027t use teleconference restoring meetings such very hard do you have to actually be in what next meeting is in Hawaii in big Ireland so have to be there if you want to participate but yes if you sent them to me I can put them in patient is so much more efficient thank you so much Tim any question for edge well if so perfectly in time we will conclude this meeting and use our business well thank you all and we\u0027ll announce the next series of interim we recently we didn\u0027t do so many so we will workout probably would want one interim and minimal and we had several drafts which was not really discussed yet we\u0027ll probably announce an interim we have to announce them seven weeks in advance so you you probably won\u0027t see them before September I like to I\u0027d like to thank Dominic for jumping in and search short notice technique with pleasure in kitchen meeting at Rome thank you very much bye-bye all right I want the blue sheets resolution "
  }
]