[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I mean think I miss it that\u0027s pretty good [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] you don\u0027t notice very fresh okay so welcome to the concession unconstant woman with me a few minutes that always happens no it\u0027s doesn\u0027t want to do this today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:13",
    "text": "yes there are two full screens and you have to press them in the right order and what is the right order no okay thank you yeah I\u0027m used to two computers with keyboard so I don\u0027t know how to press these buttons on the screen yeah so this is an ITF meeting we assume people have read the draft and you should be aware of the so-called IPR principles and all the other principles that apply and these are all summarized in a note well that we no longer seem to get with our materials I don\u0027t know how that works but just read this quickly and then you will know what applies to you and in particular if you know about claims that might apply to something you want to talk about you can always shut up and not talk us about talk about it or tell us about it these are the true choices okay the agenda is a little bit jumbled up at the moment because it\u0027s Monday very early morning in Europe and so people have not been submitting things and so on so we will see how we get through this so we have reshuffled this a little bit and I\u0027m will need to check that we do this in the right order so this Laura is no longer the right one and we will try to get through things but basically this is what we want to do today and given that some people have cancer we might be able to pull items forward from Thursday on and on Thursday we want to talk about few a few more active first drafts we want to talk about the new congestion control draft that we didn\u0027t get to in Montreal and we could talk about streaming and and other new world if we have time for that so the detailed agenda on the data tracker any changes any other changes we need to make to those okay so this slide is empty this time but maybe were five more during the week so let\u0027s talk about the workgroup status for a moment our ninth RFC was published in on August 31st for me it already was September but it still has an August name on it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:14",
    "text": "so that that\u0027s nice we had a lot of discussion about the links JSON document that that had left the workgroup already one and a half years ago and then got lots of comments from other groups so this group was comfortable with with it but other people weren\u0027t and so we we kind of got that back and took a long while to figure out what we wanted to do and so for a time we thought where we can refocus this to be a little bit more general don\u0027t inherit all the limitations of 66 90 now later we will talk about coral as another format that\u0027s coming up and that might solve some of the same slot that this one was supposed to fill so we have to decide this is the gap between what we have in 66 90 and what we will have in current worth completing this publishing this one notable observation is that ocf already have taken much of the content of this document but changed it and adapted to their use so they wouldn\u0027t be able to benefit from from publishing this because their format looks different so one question we have to decide is is there a user that would benefit from finishing this or do we wait for coral to complete and become the document of choice for this much as I\u0027d really like not to have to actually parse text rings I\u0027d rather have two things I had to deal with then 15 there was Jim shot so yeah that\u0027s one input and that that\u0027s input that many people have put in in the hallway so that there seems to be a general sentiment to say okay this this has for so long we might as well wait for coral to complete and and use that instead in this space so the main difference is that coral is really optimized to be used on small devices and that a coral also can much easier carry additional information that with links Jason we still have to somehow "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "fudge into link format style target attributes so it\u0027s a much more flexible way of doing things but of course flexibility always has a price so that\u0027s the reason why I\u0027m not wholeheartedly saying let\u0027s just do this and be done with it so we don\u0027t have to make the choice today of course but it would be good to get a sense of the room and of course my first question is who in this room actually has read the current doc charge so it\u0027s about 10 and who is reasonably happy with it and could imagine that we go this way replace links Jason with Karim so I\u0027m seeing a lot of half fans here so a lot of hands but so yes we don\u0027t know the answer to that yet any other question I should ask at this point yeah probably I should ask if if color is the thing we want to go with who would be willing to provide reviews of this document Jim re primer Matias so the euro suspects Christian but okay so we do have some some support for working on this reduction okay anything else we want to discuss on this I would propose to take you to the list from here so then the next step for me would be to go for workgroup adoption to do a working of adoption call for the coil document because that\u0027s the obvious like next step if we want to pull this in thank you can use the microphone it\u0027s actually that\u0027s a little indirect like this might want to use that thus we should accept the other as a working group document probably should talk about coral yes on its own we show okay so you see some some need for discussion before we issue a working or adoption card because your discussion could happen in the work new production call as well okay good so this stays on the backburner and we see if we get coral adopted and if we do then we seem to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "have a way forward if we don\u0027t then we also know that we have to evangelist I see some nodding here good so the next document that is sitting in the SG since last year is KOCO here since this is really a transport issue so it\u0027s bridging between this working group and the transport area maria volunteered to be the ad here and we got some great feedback and and generated a new version to show three and in London we actually found out there there seems to be some potential for misunderstanding the document and said as it is I have to report that we still have not resolved this so we ran out of time in Montreal doing this and yeah maybe we can try again this week to find out what the problem is so we can ship therefore and go on from that but I also want to remind people that poco is not the only congestion control scheme that ever will be defined for co-op if you think about TCB that there are a three-digit number of them and that\u0027s not a problem because the congestion control scheme is a local matter so you implement whatever fits your application best and so there is a next one lined up the phaser work and we will talk about that on Thursday anything else we want to discuss here in this room now about this object security I think we just said we will discuss it on Thursday but just as a quick status report this was submitted to the is G in February there were a lot of useful ISD comments and these have led to the main revisions 11 and 12 and there have been three additional minor updates since and there will be some discussions this week to see whether we can clear the remaining discussed by better fair okay so the assumption that most people have who have looked at this in detail is we will get it fixed at some point but as with with every piece of security it does require a very good look so we can consider ourselves very happy that we got this detailed look from the is tree "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "and can make sure that they aren\u0027t even editorial forms of misunderstanding things okay and the fourth document that is in the you use too many requests okay so the too many requests that\u0027s in is you review it has about no discusses a decent we relatively happy with that but there\u0027s a whole bunch of comments that would be clarified there small things here and there so this is about the 0-5 is the current version in the data tracker but then there\u0027s also a zero there\u0027s also a zero six-person its upcoming that is in the github that also pointed out on the mailing list comments and that that one is addressing all the comments that we have received so far that didn\u0027t make it to the deadline for 0-5 so key things some clarifications number one question that got from the IES she was like why are we using max age and not defining a new option and the reason for this is that 503 is already using max AIDS for the purpose of telling the client to back off come back after this time and then we\u0027ll be done and I guess the reason for 503 the use that or initiative was that it\u0027s the proxy castro\u0027s actually not nicely so what we did clarify in this draft that we are not defining a new use of max age were simply reusing whatever was defined for 503 and there was one is you commented maybe we should also update there I in a registry to point out that okay also this government is using max age to make it more clear for implementers when they see that but it still seems to be the reasonable way forward that we are using Max\u0027s we did discuss it and also earlier in the core group whether we should have a different option for that so far the constant seems to be leaning towards keeping it as max age on the server behavior what we\u0027re clarifying is that if the client does not respect the backup from the four to nine so the client keeps on doing the same requests even though there was a max a chop something not to do so it\u0027s not said that okay a server may also respond with 503 and the rationale here being that maybe the client simply doesn\u0027t recognize the four to nine error code this is a new error code that it\u0027s at now being definitely find the 503 gets the same behavior but just gives the clients much less information what it could do then currently there was a transfer area review saying we may need to do some rate limiting on how often would you answer with this code so currently draft says you could for example limit to once every RTT estimated RTT but discussing here in Bangkok with Karsten that exceeds such estimates may not be well available for a server and there could be some other criteria how you wanna run a rate limit so not as a proposal that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "maybe instead of saying once every RTT is saying taking into account your usual load sharing policies so whatever use you are using for this purpose use also for for this error code instead of this error code having a specific way of doing that and there\u0027s also a note that in general when you are doing these kind of things you are actually making per client state if you are doing these kind of procedures which may be counterproductive for your original goal of reducing load so that is now noted in the draft and also there\u0027s finally a reminder that this code is meant for do the client that is actually causing the overload if it\u0027s some other clients or some other reason causing overrode the 503 is more appropriate for that use just as a note about something that I guess we all know implicitly that\u0027s good to be explicit on that on the client behavior there was a question how do you interpret max-age and like what is the exact time when should you start your timer how long to wait so co-op RFC currently says about this max a said it\u0027s current at the time of transmission so there was a offline discussion what does that actually mean and we realize well it\u0027s a bit ambiguous maybe bit more clarifications for this would be useful so Carson started this new draft on clarifications and corrections which could eventually then be verifying this for all use of coop because again this Mac says it\u0027s not specific for this trap so having those d-doesn\u0027t these trusses may problem not the right thing to do but having a general clarification draft for that purpose makes more sense one thing we did clarify here is that the if the max is missing use the default value has already find instrumental five - but just to reiterate that those rules do apply on a security area especially when a security area review we had a few clarifications again the first one may be a bit obvious the RFC security considerations apply maybe that\u0027s that that\u0027s a helpful thing to note there and then on that trust on the response code so again this is nothing specific for this response code but if you are using Nosek mode yeah you cannot trust the response is coming from the right and the right H and then that would actually mean could be used as a for the EOS so you should trust the response only to the level you\u0027re a trustee underlying security so if you use TLS you know you can t let\u0027s get freshness and and an integrity for example but if you have no sec well you should take that into account there\u0027s a minor privacy concern on that if you don\u0027t use encryption and you do send these replies that could be leaking some form of information what is the current state of the server the for example the server is being now currently are under heavy load didn\u0027t seem like a big issue so we didn\u0027t normative text what we did note that in the security considerations if there is a a concern from some some kind of deployment and finally the security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:15",
    "text": "considerations already earlier said that if you are under attack instead of replying to all of those requests just simply dropping them could be the right kind of approach however the downside of that is the clients are likely to retry so again it\u0027s a it\u0027s a trade-off to be to be taken into consideration on the kind of a policy you would apply whether you drop or reply to all of them if you\u0027re if you consider yourself being under attack and then final thing so we didn\u0027t add anything on this topic to the to the graft but again because it seems to be an issue wider than just this particle draft but we got questions on what happens when you behind a proxy so if there\u0027s number of clients behind a proxy they all communicate with the same server they in the basic mode the server for the server it seems that all the clients are clients because it\u0027s the proxy unless unless you use some additional piece of information and now when the server replies with too many requests to the proxy well the the last one actually beat the request that went over the line will get that reply and that could have been for example the very first request that client made but it seems there isn\u0027t much we can do about that unless you have some extra piece of information and again this is bigger issue than just for this draft so we are recommending these to be again in the corrections and clarifications draft that\u0027s all that was a recap all the changes over the past three weeks roughly Alexei speaking as ad when when I\u0027m going to have a new draft which I can I cannot prove I think what do you think you need you know more work discussion on this I didn\u0027t see anyone reacting massively of any of these things so I assume they\u0027re all okay and they were all or a discussed on the list so this is just check if there\u0027s no issues I can press the button today tomorrow with along the lines of that which is presented here the one thing that has not been on the list was this new proposal servers a great limit four to nine replies because that came basically yesterday so but that seems to make a lot of sense it\u0027s just it\u0027s the same thing slightly more general doesn\u0027t seem like controversial things so I can include that in the next update favorite so yeah I think it\u0027s probably out of scope for this draft but we probably need to say something somewhere I don\u0027t know and when doing that another bullet to add to that list of things to cover in the other document that\u0027s not this one whatever that is is what do you do in the case of an HTTP to couette proxy you need to specify the row there - good point I wonder what the proxy RFC currently says probably not enough yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:17",
    "text": "so the customer and the documents about proxies right now we\u0027re written with a consideration that we would learn things about proxies as we go along so they\u0027re not at the current moment trying to turn a lid on everything so maybe this is a good opportunity but let me quickly point out the the reason why this is a little bit more complicated than we like so this is trying to be a rest environment so the ideas that the server doesn\u0027t keep state about what clients are out there so if the server wants to tell a particular client you are sending too many requests that that\u0027s entirely wrong from the point of view of rest now in a real world HTTP environment of course you would have the TCP connection as a piece of state on which you can piggyback something like that but we don\u0027t have that at least we don\u0027t always have that and of course once we have a proxy in there it becomes worse because even if the origin server has the state telling the right client who is overloading them there is we can\u0027t expect the proxy to also keep state above request rates and so on because the proxy has no idea what the server actually is is able to handle and so on so it\u0027s really hard for the proxy to send back the information that this is too much through the right client and and unless we changed the architecture a lot I don\u0027t think there is a good way to fix that so the inverse observation is that as a nice word well behaving client you might go through a proxy that suddenly sends you a 429 because some other kind of that proxy is sending too many requests so that\u0027s something that that the nice client has to be prepared to receive that of course complicates state machines because right now you would expect as a client you would expect to get a response and now you have the possibility that you get a 429 but you always had a possibility that you\u0027ve got a 503 so it\u0027s not yet much more of a stretch yeah we were talking about the idea Corrections clarifications document ed lemon so I was just curious if you have any sense of how well this is actually working in practice right now at the use of this response code yeah not much this is actually a really recent thing but it seems to be as the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:19",
    "text": "ocf guys said they\u0027re already implementing something like this so probably worth while asking from them but it seems to be the need seems to be there being something more better guidance for client than 503 just 503 pretty much was earlier you could say like hey something went wrong on this side please back off now you have bit more indications but let\u0027s say operational experience is still real oh thanks [Music] [Music] so we have one one other document that is post work new Blasco that\u0027s the my teapot content type which is pretty interesting Swiss Army knife tool and one wonders why that hasn\u0027t been defined twenty years ago but the answer is probably there was no see about 20 years ago so Thomas Thomas Thomas tried to define it five years ago and we didn\u0027t have SIBO at the time so we finally have it so we can do it Klaus sent a pretty nice review with a ton of editorial comments that we have to put in and two questions that I think are worth discussing here one is that right now there are two ways of saying something is not present in the set of representations that make up the the multipad response one of course is not including anything about it at all so if you don\u0027t want to send something you you don\u0027t put it in of course and obviously a solution and the other thing you can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:20",
    "text": "do in this version of the draft is you can actually indicate there might have been a text plain something or application PDF something but this something explicitly has a very of not so that that\u0027s more flexibility for putting in the information that something is not there so you can say it\u0027s not there by not putting it there or you can say yes really this is not there now why is that a good idea because applications that make use of my teapot might simply say I expect a multi-part structure with two entries or with three entries and the first ones this the second one is this and this runs this now if the second and the third one happened to have the same media type and you want to leave out this idea the second and not the third that\u0027s hard to say without this functionality but still the question is how often do you need something like that and is it worth complicating this structure by allowing another value and we already have taken out some other things from the structure because it was too complicated so this is really a question that we could ask ourselves now I think this this measures well with the other observation here which is that the current version of the pub/sub draft is not yet using multi-part CT we essentially have have defined multiple city among others to solve the problem for pub/sub and the document is using this as an example and for pub/sub it might be useful to have this null version to say there is nothing new so yeah we have a little problem because market Costa who could be talking about the pub side document cannot be here because of a medical emergency and he cannot join remotely to today he hopes to be back on Thursday so we probably can discuss the pub sub part on Thursday but at this point I would just like to hear does anybody have an opinion on this little piece of complexity I think that actually I would say that you don\u0027t want that and the variety answer may at some point beat is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:21",
    "text": "to find a content type that there isn\u0027t anything here instead you know what Jim shot that that\u0027s different from singing that\u0027s different from saying there is no imitation PDF saying there\u0027s a binary value here and oh by the way the binary values not here bun Rieu in the sense of one Azula binary innocence of application / binary well we called it a precocious little turd stream okay yes I mean say you know if I go in and I say okay I\u0027ve got an application / ace + C boar here and was there is nothing that kind of is maybe confusing to some people whereas boy if I go in and say there\u0027s a no content type in this slot that may actually be a better answer in the long run mm-hmm yeah Lexi I I think I I\u0027m not entirely convinced this is needed but if it\u0027s needed I probably would agree because the current proposal is sort of deviating from mine and I know you\u0027re not using mine structure but you are conceptually using similar thing as a collection at three of you know budda parts and stuff so yeah keep it simple for now maybe do something like what Jim said you know later well that raises another interesting question that maybe you can answer which is let\u0027s say yes or no we decide you want to extend this do we do this within the same media type is it still a multi-part sit here after we extended or do we do a new media type well it depends on what kind of restrictions you put on the current text right yeah right now for instance there is one warning in the text that says this might be extended in the future that doesn\u0027t make a difference whether I remove that or we leave that in well if you have to extend it is it going if the new version going to be backward compatible yes can the old stuff still read and you know possible well then what I\u0027m saying if you sort of have extensibility right then you probably don\u0027t need to okay to change if you change the structure if you decide that you need extra fields which weren\u0027t there well then it has to be a new mime type because all stuff couldn\u0027t parse it right so you need a new one type for text html5 because there\u0027s stuff in there that that text HTML couldn\u0027t well that\u0027s not quite the same because it\u0027s sort of now let\u0027s not go there that\u0027s not a good example probably yeah what is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:22",
    "text": "a good example do we have a canonical example for media type evolution that we can point to and say we want to behave like these people the problem a from here you\u0027re asking question which is too general yes and it\u0027s hard for me to give you a very general you know I cannot tell you whether yes it\u0027s all going to be fine or no it\u0027s you know I I think I need to see examples of what kind of extensions you are thinking about ok so let\u0027s take as an example so let\u0027s assume right now the text says there\u0027s always binary string there that is the representation of the pot and then we want to extend it to also allow another you in this place that\u0027s not backward-compatible now well it\u0027s not forward compatible spec well but yes whatever you call it yes so you say in the current document saying this value that should be binary value it can be null value which is reserved for future use that would be compatible in the future at least this way your Lord that it might be now in the future that would have been okay okay so the next question that we probably will take them to the list is do we want to say that or not but that would be something like a middle position between including it or excluding it thank you but you know by the time you you have the discussion maybe you already decide that you want it or you don\u0027t want it so you know it might be just a bit easier but makhmur from Nokia so this question at least for me I\u0027m trying to evaluate whether this means like every time it repeats this null when you could occur like multiple times that CD is coming up or is that like one time thing because depending on that for example like if you are going to send C or TLV etcetera together each of it if it has a null value represented by itself then that could occur in the compacted multiple content type otherwise I think we are trying to override that specific content type what it does or does not represent as a null value right yeah so the the Nvidia would be in place of a reservation of the part and of course it wouldn\u0027t mean there is we have extended the media type by an IVA us and there\u0027s no possibility but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:25",
    "text": "that would mean that thing isn\u0027t there and if you if you don\u0027t have a way of saying that thing is in there explicitly then you cannot always use positional encoding so an application cannot say that there are four potential things one two three four and each of them can be left out then of course in an array you have a problem that when you leave out one you don\u0027t know which one you left out that was the reason why by this foreigner in the proposal okay so that that doesn\u0027t entirely seem to be a slam-dunk I was hoping we could just generate a new version and be done with it but let\u0027s find out what we want to do with this very interesting good so what\u0027s the triangle let\u0027s see the great so we have minus five minutes to talk about two documents one is the statements document that passed recently and we\u0027re waiting for the author to resubmit it as a draft IETF so this represents the result we had of the discussion how to solve the status problem and six dishes waiting for us to resolve that so we don\u0027t have all the time in the world of doing this so of the two ways of doing this we had this is the way with potential a little bit more impact on the ecosystem and it also has one open issue that we have to know I have to solve in the working group process is how do you know whether you are supposed to send 60 kilobyte token or not so right now we don\u0027t have any any mechanism that would indicate somebody is able to accept it hoping that there\u0027s longer than eight bytes and it sounds enough years if there is 12 bytes but it might be 60 kilobytes and and so we have to think about how to handle this case of course there are other things that can be made big so it\u0027s not a completely new problem but since it\u0027s in a place of the message format that didn\u0027t grow much yet it\u0027s maybe something to specifically look at so who has read this version of the stateless document one two three four five good so maybe can use this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:27",
    "text": "opportunity to say you really should read this document because we are we are actually reaching into the 725 to packet format and and opening this up a little bit and if you are if you have an implementation you probably want to be aware of that okay the other document that that didn\u0027t begin workgroup adoption yet but that should have maybe is the corrections and clarifications document I think we have talked about this in a number of meetings and now finally there is an initial draft for it and the idea is to do the same thing that was done in RFC 48:15 now of course most of you won\u0027t know RFC 4815 that\u0027s another document that has correct and clarifications in the title and this was held as a running document as a working document by the rock working group for almost five years and the rock working group used this draft or document minor points of clarification and so on plus actually actually needed Corrections which usually also work Larry vacations but there they were clarifications very really a decision had to be made before the clarification could be issued these were collected in in the document and this was mostly based on implementer feedback so we haven\u0027t done this in this working group and I consider lucky that we didn\u0027t have to so rock is an extremely complicated standard 170 pages and so it does attract bugs when you build something of that complexity and curb isn\u0027t as complex but still we have a few things that we want to clarify and for instance the meaning of max age was raised by the the is tree when discussing the too many requests and there are some some details that I think by now we probably can say more about then then we could five years ago so if this becomes a working roblox image we probably want to cook up a little bit of process how we put entries in there and we might want to label the entries at some point as working group consensus if we think the specific clarification or correction issued in there no longer has open issues that that the whole thing of course saves us from from doing another document each time we have one of these small issues so yeah I don\u0027t know 4815 has has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:28",
    "text": "a large two-digit or a small three-digit number of issues in it and we might not get there but it doesn\u0027t make sense to exercise the process each time so the next version of the structure might have a draft version of that process so if people are interested in in this I would like to hear from them offline what we might want to put in there but I think it\u0027s pretty much clear what you want to do there so you have a candidate issue then you have a issue with a Provost resolution and then at some point you have an issue with an accepted a resolution that would be three steps and maybe we have to add a fourth or a fifth and and that should be about it and of course an accepted issue might itself have issues that have to be fixed afterwards okay who has had a look at this stub document so two people that\u0027s not much so maybe some more people want to look at it before we actually get the call forwarding or adoption issued I just had a very quick look at artis 7815 and that it has sort of list of issues and alt-text mutex so it\u0027s kind of patch yes right um from recent experience in IHG I think it\u0027s very hard to review the documents like this it\u0027s much easier to review actually updated document then try to apply a patch especially if we had a document recently where there were multiple issues and sometimes they were being applied to the same section so you had to read the most laced latest corrected text to actually figure out what the final text is going to be if it\u0027s if it\u0027s all of this is applying to a single document just publish updated publish miss yeah we do that probably won\u0027t if I publish this okay so well I\u0027m just 4850 if it helps the working group to deal with the issues as a running document and then once you resolve all of them you maybe just publish based based on that I think that\u0027s fine so I think this is just a glorified form of a per request and that\u0027s okay I think you know I probably can hear several eyes gee member screaming if you submit the document like this toy is delish but if it\u0027s just internal document ins in the working group that\u0027s fine so the rocker group just gave up at some point and said we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:29",
    "text": "don\u0027t have the cycles to do the editorial work to put this together I mean this was before get and so on and I receive said you know 95 was written in Microsoft Word and it was a complicated process so that\u0027s why this just was published as a separate document but I don\u0027t propose that we want to do this it might turn into a nice informational document at the end if we have applied all the things that are really issues and we just have nice explanations that that might happen but yes this was supposed to update only RFC 252 or the others as well I think it should we should use it as a repository for issues for all the C\u0027s we have in particular they already have been places where it might be useful to do something 266 90 and I\u0027m sure observe block wise will have this kind of need for clarifications at some point so if you look at the document that she lists some five-hour C\u0027s would it would be updating if it were published but again the point is not necessary to publish it in this fall and yeah we will have five years since the original publication of our c7 - five - next year so it might be a good thing to actually start this process at some point but let\u0027s first collect the things they really want to change and see how heavyweight that is okay yeah the next item on the agenda is a scroll as I said we are going to talk about the base document on Thursday after some more hallway discussions and now we will talk about the group communication plans okay Marko Tanaka from Rhys a quick update on Oscar for group communication we have a major revision of the document mostly based on two different views from Jim and Peter thanks a lot for that of course all the Victoria changes mostly to improve readability and have a better alignment with the main Oscar document and upon many people\u0027s requests we moved every detail on key management key provision aspects out of this document and to the related document in ace we refer here we keep in this document only high-level pointers and discussion on the importance of that especially and the group manager is the only responsible "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:29",
    "text": "for key provisioning and handling key material in the group and acting as a repository for public keys of group members but again the details are moved out to the ACE document we have also now two proper separated sections for because the object and the other compression again on the editorial side while a big technical update is the countersignature it used to be placed inside your score option out has been moved out and appended to the payload of the secure message and this has the advantage to achieve what more affordable impact in terms of message fragmentation while still it\u0027s just possible to easier parse the years core option retrieve the context and then proceed we added some more text on security considerations that we actually plan to extend further several time being mostly on management and group key material and possible misalignment of security contexts among group members right after new key material has been distributed in the group and how to handle that other aspects handle what happens if USPS run off sequence numbers by group members and use the special IDs and how to handle that we have compressed the the list of responsibilities of the group manager now single one used to be two lists pointed out explicit of the need for registering the beat in your score option to signal the presence of the signature is actually the fun in this document and we have rewrote I would say from scratch a massively shortened appendix D describing at a very high level the set up of a new item point because again everything related to the provisioning of key material to a new endpoint is out of scope for this document and described in the h1 as the next steps we would like to converge to an actual implementation version of this document we believe we are pretty much there actually because s caught ourselves we don\u0027t see any big issue left that will stop an implementation of this back we just like to define what aspects are exactly up to application policy like overall messages back to group members if something is wrong and we would like to expand further the security considerations hopefully as a one-to-one match with respective subsections in the main Oh score document speaking of implementation in rice we are going to start soon implementation for californium building on the current one available for score and all certain innovations also plan to start soon an implementation in C I was all to be used specifically for the dot framework of course is anyone else is interested in considering this like for implementing you\u0027re very welcome and that was it for you update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:29",
    "text": "[Music] converging or maybe even agreeing on this very version to say let\u0027s start implementing this towards interrupt next year and we\u0027re actually we have actually two implementation scheduled to start soon so Maura welcome we can start remotely with something very friendly to bring something more concrete here as soon as possible okay yeah I think it would be good to have something like like a timeline for for this next year\u0027s it\u0027s nice so what\u0027s your best case I hope we can have an actual one in summer meeting we\u0027ll try to have something already testable earlier good yeah thank you okay mark confirm rise again this is a related work that we started after some discussion at the mic on group of score immoral actually we\u0027re somewhere wondering is there any other work especially in this working group that somehow uses groups and can be helpful in any way to a group of score and we talked about the possible use of the resource directory for that so to facilitate applications using security and based on groups we try to elaborate a little bit more in fact about newly newly deployed device that eventually gets an operational identity to to to run its pure publication but even that point in time that I dented my still like a number of information that are operatically required to work in a secured group for instance the identifier of the group the IP address is used in a group multicast IP addresses or specifically the link to a drawn resource of the group manager to get access to the group and at that point in time also get the key material to operate in the group and this can actually happen for reasons like even the manufacturing time and there\u0027s just not such available information to provide to the joining node or the information that the join node would required to operate in the group has changed right before the device deployment or extreme case the device is deployed even before the group manager is deployed or before the group manager has created the group the device would like to join so we try to find a way to use essentially the core resource directory for joining device to possibly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:29",
    "text": "find the existence of the ascore group in the first place and to retrieve all the missing required information to join the group through the responsible group manager and we actually use resource lookup of the resource directory because in the end the join device needs to retrieve the pointer and a link to the join resource of the group manager to access the group and get the key material to securely operate in the group we try to be general but we had as a guideline the method described in the ace draft refer here so of course we are consistent with that first and foremost it works like that pretty much as steps order in time the group manager sooner or later is supposed to register itself as an endpoint in the resource directory and at the same time to register all its join resources with the relay link attributes and we are referring also to a new value for resource type of j 2 because here for the core parameters registry this example essentially a group registers itself and one of its resource with additional information later on might happen that the group manager creates newest core groups or for some reason it has to update some information related to those groups and of course it has to have the 80 entries related to those resources and one way to do that is that the group manager Arie registers itself an alternative way will be somehow using fetcher patch but that of course would require the proper definition of format for that and then later on the device can performers look up at the resource directory specifying a number of search criteria which resource type LJ is mandatory and other possibly usable in addition like the identifier of the score group or the identifier of the group manager registers an endpoint in the Rd and the journey not gets back as a reply all information it needs to contact a group manager and join the group and already in this example i alighted the possible of course optional use of observation for this request which has a number of advantages like of course automatic notification in case one of these information is updated later on or even for the extreme case where the journey node is deployed even before the group manager is deployed or the group is created and so only later on when the group is created all the related information is fully available they can be provided to the observe response to the join node of course if you do like that you can produce a response drum set with quite a large payload if there are so many general resources for the group measure so it\u0027s actually recommended to use observe here in this request only the lookup is fine-grain meaning if you have the identifier of the group also used as the search criteria very next step is of course getting feedback and comment on this new work and of course align it to possible upcoming changes to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:30",
    "text": "the manual to the main reasons directory document that\u0027s it Jim shot I don\u0027t read this document I probably obvious they need to one of the things that we\u0027re talking about in terms of the resource directory is to get rid of the concept of groups does that kill you or not is the same for this document at this point in time in fact we use only resource lookup okay and we don\u0027t care about what happens to the groups in the ideas they are now okay from the perspective of this document Peter found a stock to react to that if we remain with the old groups have specified in the resource directory it will work as well and we have got done and going forward to the next one which is more appropriate because it uses resources and so that will be reworked better it will be much more but of course we have to say that we must have more experience in how we install things to see if it\u0027s actually the right approach okay but makhmur from Nokia somewhere I\u0027m probably layman in terms of both Oscar and this group drafts but in terms of objects security and then the group communication at a device level probably doesn\u0027t seem to be what is on the object security level whereas this is this happens entirely before of course the communication between the joining of the resource director is to be secured just as describing the results directory document then what happens later on in the group is otoscope for this document okay okay so that still happen and then the other question I had was like the right now I\u0027m looking at Darby and lightweight m2m service and equivalence like we were discussing so in terms of this group server or group manager can it also be an RD so then it kind of gels well with the management weapon Kosir that at least for my experience there it is apparently at least from a logical point of view I wouldn\u0027t exclude that maybe just a 25 maybe is not so connected with lower than to a server right now this particular draft mattias Kovich simmons so i was under the impression that RD became more modular so that you can provide extensions that provide for instance new forms of lookups you are using explicitly the existing resource lookup - then we appoint to the resource to get information I just wanted to confirm this kind of dynamic that we had discussing about Rd making a bit modular kind of plugging in more mechanisms that use the existing resource discovery mechanism by having the right target "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:31",
    "text": "attributes and group could be one of those extensions that you basically plug into your resource directory is DEP does that hold or is not using this version we are ready for possible update in the end towards this direction depends on what happens in the Rd document okay so yes the the resource directory is meant to be modular but isn\u0027t it great when when the base functionality actually already works for us I\u0027m not having to sew from jabber Christian says at Matias can we have the group discussion on already after my presentation yes okay who has read this document this document [Music] yeah okay co-authors then we should have read the document but anybody else so I take this as the place where you have been noted there was an interesting document out there and I think this is great work and I would love to get some some reviews of this okay did you want to talk about the the other two security documents the IQ request tag and the respect I deserve so is there anybody here who wanted to do that because I don\u0027t have slides from anyone so did anybody want to discuss who requested and equators okay Jim what I just is arethe there was a a we\u0027re about ready to working group last call echo is that gonna happen now that\u0027s a good question so so who has read version or three of the Acura question jim has so we will get to one response [Music] yeah so I think we can issue a working class code because the document is fundamentally ready but we have to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:33",
    "text": "sure that where you get useful replies from that so let me just ask if we send in comments Jim final for Jessica one hand Alex thank you okay good so I think we should do that next now on the actuators document I think we have had a little bit of a different perception of what this is is this admonition to implementers which which would make it like an a week document is it some some text we may at one point add to our C 725 - to clarify that you have to be a bit careful how you use these primitives I\u0027m not entirely sure what the correct disposition of this is of course we could just publish it as another informational RFC that may not be the best place to make sure that people actually read this document so I\u0027m a bit unsure what to do with it I mean it\u0027s very useful information but what should we do with it okay the answer is people are leaving the room remember we need also need to take that to the list so I shuffle it around the agenda a little bit but maybe we actually should unravel this because we just ran into the resource directory issue and maybe we can can relatively quickly go through that so I think the idea would be to do the resource directory part now and then go to the next parts reason straight free so Christian are you out there somewhere can you press the red button [Music] it\u0027s okay concerned you should have the mic now I\u0027d like to talk about the resource directory and especially its status since the last ITF meeting so there are two big things that have come up here our next slide please one thing is that we finally received a review on the topic of the modernizing former thanks to Charles which indicates that we should the quote would probably "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:35",
    "text": "not want to do that the other is the topic of which has already been introduced in the questions tomorrow but we before we get to those I\u0027d like to give a short update off of what had happened I\u0027m slide please so there\u0027s a the security policies have been updated responding to some comments that we got there was a successful plaque test although there are still issues with the university universal deployment of ipv6 so we couldn\u0027t test all the working clients against each other and but what we could test did largely work but resulted in some good comments which have been which are either under processing or have been incorporated as editorial changes now all those changes wound up in a dash 16 version you might have noticed that there\u0027s also a dash 17 person which which includes the latest changes to the group but as I see you the slides are the other way around so slide plays um let\u0027s start with the tactic of modernizing forward what we tried to do with modernize link format was to work around the limitations of 66 90 by doing what you could describe as 66 90 bits in an appendix now that didn\u0027t go too well with the reuse so we are moving back a little now to saying that there is a limited subset of 66 90 links which is which should work with what people have implemented and prescribed that only those four only for those datasets the resource directory can can work with link format now as for the for the implementations I\u0027ve gone through almost a dozen implementations of coop or the online format and none of them do the bad things we are trying to work around from 66 90 so it seemed to be fair to do abyss but the sentiment seems to be that 66 90 is not fully the way to continue anyway given what is what we\u0027ll hear in the next presentation on on links Jason so defining a limited subset with which everyone and work seems to be the the good way for what here that does preclude some particular applications especially the one that Matthias asked for in the in the London meeting which is about endpoints that have a path prefix now those can\u0027t work with that kind of links but those applications can still either use coral or any other link format that\u0027s not inheriting the sixty six ninety problems or rely on the implementation to work with those links that are outside of of what the resource directory specification actually says is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:36",
    "text": "is okay now the other topic slightly is groups now groups have been in the resource directory how do you still hear me okay okay thank you groups have been in the resource directory for for about five years and what came up in the discussion of the world with macro and trying to to work on a concrete application of groups is that what those groups do is not actually what you need to deploy group because back then it seems to me the impression was that a resource directory could just publish a list of endpoints and the to be part of a group and they would automatically join now joining is a bit more complicated now that we expect everything to run over Tripta so there is not much value anymore in numerating the membership and also that that part of resource rectory added quite a bit to complete complexities of what it was maybe ten percent of of the whole document length so what I\u0027m trying to do with this this group proposal is to say that groups are not uh groups are not a thing as an as a separate entity in resource directory basically ripping out those ten percent but introducing a way of registering a group as an endpoint now this is something that doesn\u0027t need complexity on the on the implementation side because it\u0027s just an endpoint just with a particular attribute which it could already have had and next slide please this also means that we can now look up groups look up resources of groups which is something Micro hinted to in the in the group application for Oscar as well yeah and as it would always have been a group is registered by a commissioning tool that knows all the details of the groups now that we would in practice often be the next slide place that would in practice always often be in the group manager that knows what the details of that group are so in the - 17 draft this the old groups got replaced with a basically an appendix that says this is a way how you can use groups this is use this is a usage pattern for which we also define an endpoint an end point type so it is well defined but it\u0027s rather simple straight forward and hopefully something the working group will not object to this late in the process given that we are already trying to to move towards or working group last call now one reason why this was done is that implementers usually didn\u0027t implement there was exactly one implementation by Jim that that implemented those groups as they where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:37",
    "text": "and this means that we can\u0027t really present much interim interoperability experienced with those groups whereas the the new groups are are something you can do with any resource directory next slide please so as as to the point of what how can resource directory progress now there are two concrete questions I\u0027d like to ask one is um does anyone use all the all the details of our C 66 90 in particular the origin resolution rules because if so we might need to prescribed that on our that an RD even processed those correctly which I think we don\u0027t need to making implementations way simpler and the other question is are there any applications we did not hear before of the groups that we\u0027re in the personal - five draft up until they\u0027re 16 if the answers to both questions are no I think we can possibly by the next interim meeting publish a version a draft version that can go into working group last call but of course I\u0027d like to hear the opinions so Zac shall be from arm thanks Christian really good presentation and um good work to repin reduce the size of a draft going into working group last call that doesn\u0027t happen often just just my insight under both of these I mean the reason we added groups as they were back then was because of Peter you know in the lighting industry this was seen as a necessary tool for installation management tooling and so it\u0027s really just based on a very clear industry request now this is a neat way of solving the same problem with less mechanics you know nobody ended up implementing that group thing because a lot of our DS that are deployed today on the Internet are centralized cloud thingies they\u0027re not available available locally for this type of group communications so I haven\u0027t seen a lot of Rd deployments at the edge that could change and that\u0027s fine because I think this this new mechanism is okay on the first question I\u0027m not aware of people doing advanced 66 90 work I haven\u0027t seen that in the wild so I think it\u0027s safe to say we could we could simplify it and dumb it down for this and then let\u0027s see in the future what happens with coral one thing I do think we have to be aware of is future compatibility with new link formats and just double-check that we don\u0027t we don\u0027t get caught with coral coming and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:37",
    "text": "not being able to use it thank you I think we can take care of the coral compatibility Matthias Kovac Siemens so I try to catch up kind of the exact issues with RFC 66 90 and I couldn\u0027t find actually explicit text that redefines the your I resolution mechanism or that you should do it in a different way I think there was just explanation missing that people who are not aware of the actual algorithm do it right so I\u0027m not sure kind of what happened I try to figure it out from the meaningless but but I\u0027m a bit lost there is there really a feature that people wanted to use I think it\u0027s more about where text is missing well it\u0027s it\u0027s not particularly about the the euro resolution itself so so 396 stands but 66 90 says that for example before you resolve the d8 ref links you have to first resolve the anchor and then resolve the references in the H ref relative to what that anchor resolved to and in between at some times in between you have to form the origin of that so you strip all the past components that\u0027s something that technically is not part of the euro resolution but part of the resolution that happens before before the your eyes are resolved yeah so in particular I think it\u0027s not only broken if you use relative your eyes upon registration but I never saw that anyone does the relative unless there\u0027s a buck in the application or whoever does it well it it turns out and it appears as a bug when you have a lot of reference and there\u0027s an absolute anchor and that that\u0027s one of the two issues and the other issue is with applications that well when you register the resource directory you should register relative references because otherwise you can\u0027t use the upcoming critical Kiyoshi ation topics but if you want to have a path in as your base for example in the in the applications you presented where you\u0027d have a gateway that registers part of what what it is forwarding as individual endpoints then that\u0027s that resolutions then that pre resolution step of stripping the base your ID down to its origin would bite you okay I think no understood this kind of very indirect way where it breaks together okay thank you just one of the original ideas was that you can put your link format text into ROM by using relative references and was it that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:39",
    "text": "fall use in brain on call but we have the simple registration mechanism where the resource directory then fetches the random coil and construct the registration out of that so that\u0027s why relative references sometimes do occur and we should make sure that we can say where they work and where they don\u0027t if I\u0027m a stock to go back to the former topic I have had feedback from my from the electric from the lighting community and they have no objections to this new type of using it oops okay so probably the probably the the next step is to to ask exactly these questions on the maybe list once more and wait for a week and then issue the broken glass code so thank you thank you and then we have our DPN SSD could have used this one okay this is if every small update on the our DD + SSD draft what we have done is added a section in the beginning of the ID DNS draft which motivates actually the mapping which goes on from the resources to the surfaces so one of the things that film has to find it\u0027s the DNS domain in which the shorter resource holding no how\u0027s this called host which domain it is and there is a new draft which has been done so V that tells you how you can actually find the domain of your note very mature F at which the software is running so that is then soft the surface type we have discussed that actually the resource type and the surface type actually serves the same functionality because their services delivered and you want to service off a tippet friction ality you want to discover and that is what you want to do both with the resource type in a service type by the surface type actually may envelope several resources within this different resource types which can be then put together in an embalm type of resource type so that\u0027s motivates that and then further the instance the instance can be a manufacturer generated name so like I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:42",
    "text": "have my Hewlett Packard a printer and I may have here back at home and two or three within my local domain and so you can do it like that or you can be more general you say look here let\u0027s be very absolutely certain that we have no misunderstandings and prefix use the UUID which is supposed to be other identity I identify the the instance of the surface or what you could do that you have an interface description and you describe in it how you actually finds the attribute for the instance or you can do in deployment find using commissioning to Estelle\u0027s you look here you\u0027re number five format fifty-five in the left hand corner so these are the different examples that we put in the instance and together is the domain service type and the instance the surface type for used in the DNS is completely defined so that is what we how our what we have done so now if there any comments on this approach please let me know it makes the it makes the thing more flexible and it gives an explanation how you can actually adapt it to your own circumstances yep there is one suggestion that every family have in the IANA registry which automatically Maps the surface type to the resource that I don\u0027t know if this is a good idea should like to have some reactions about that if people think it is good but or that we just keep the service type writes history and the resource type s history and we do not care about an fixed mapping Ted lemon so the mapping problem is actually a really big problem and having a registry would be nice I\u0027m not sure that that having registry of mappings is the first step the first step I would think would be having a registry of names that you might map there is a surface that that\u0027s just we no no I don\u0027t mean I don\u0027t mean are you talking about the DNS SD service type registry you know what I mean is that the register the things that can appear in Cordy are not enumerated and therefore defining a mapping between them and DNS SD service types is is problematic so and and this is a problem that exists because there are about fifteen different standards bodies defining their own different ways of doing these things and you know this is something the IAB actually did a report on recently we kind of need to solve that problem if we\u0027re going to do this and I don\u0027t know how to solve that problem so that\u0027s who\u0027s where are you talking about a core Rd resource type yes yes okay and that\u0027s being is are the are people like dot dot and and those guys yet most of the entries are from OC if and I think a few "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:42",
    "text": "from broad print for him so so there\u0027s a start gee I mean do you get the sense that the other the other s do is that are working on this are interested in participating in that or is this just o CF and and brought n PBF well it\u0027s a registry so it\u0027s not yes but but the problem the problem is right now it sort of feels like there\u0027s a tendency to try to keep this stuff proprietary or within the within the the sto so that only members can use it and and that creates an Interop problem for us dave has some experience with this Dave Taylor I can only answer half of one of your questions OC f has a policy to register all the resource types with I Anna there\u0027s no intent to keep any of them private in fact part of their requirement before they publish a standard is they make sure everything\u0027s that I ended before they publish their document but it as the final copy now you\u0027d ask about other organizations I can\u0027t come on them and so the ocf wants everything to be the I know resource type registry but I can\u0027t comment on is whether ocf cares about the service type mapping no idea and mapping a service type to a resource type is actually the easier direction the opposite direction is much harder because resource types can be arbitrary URLs and not just things that are in the registry mapping the things that are in the registry is very straightforward by mapping arbitrary resource types and so maybe in the proxy you say that the mapper or whatever you say I choose to not register and not make those be discoverable in DNS that\u0027s why that one\u0027s a much harder problem so near I think I answered half of one of your questions and now the solution is that actually we defined and parameter which is called SD is so that for each note that is defined what his service type is and so we have no mapping nothing else it is the bomb who installs the note who actually knows what to order manufacture who knows what the service type should be I think we come up with this interesting problem that we have two three four registries defining essentially but not entirely the same thing we don\u0027t have a good process in in the IETF to to merge registries so maybe there is a more fundamental problem looking there so one other point ahead does daysailer again it said if you\u0027re not familiar with the resource type registry the syntax and research type registries allows things like dots which makes it complicated to map it into service types not the other way around so that\u0027s just another example of if you look at all the ones you know the the 200 whatever that are registered the vast majority of them have a bunch of dots in them sorry I\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:55",
    "text": "had some commencing very much I really hope looking forward to more some more comments and push this forward ok thank you so much the research directory segment so I think we can skip forward to the Cochran\u0027s item on the agenda at this point and Peter is the next one on the agenda if scripts along oh yes this has been okay I\u0027ve run into a problem is registration of seats to yoga mind bird we have the contents of a young specification can be transported or for constraint networks we have done the young to see poor draft which tells you how this young is converted is to see BER which makes it smaller however the young names can be very long so you\u0027re still left with a very very large payloads so that we have what has been done is that they\u0027re young names can be reduced to numeric identifier code and sit for example in our case very young usually used to define observables in an in a note so that you can read how the note is doing what we have done for example is specified the voucher which is transport of the network specify the teen young and so the see purpose to identify the seats are transported offer that now one of the things that we want is long as you have defined in RFC that the seats you have a light that have been allocated to to the Youngs which are part of the young module which is part of the RFC should not change that\u0027s what we want we don\u0027t want to change it for at this moment the seat ranges sit range is allocated to modules from comb space facility and they can be changed during the development if you need be if you don\u0027t want to changed me you don\u0027t change them but suppose you change your whole draft or another draft etc so you can change them so you have all this freedom once the errors you the ID is ready to go to RFC you go to the IANA you get an RFC range which is which can be fermented in short ranges which are supposed not to change anymore which are co-located to the modules in RFC\u0027s fine now what we have now that the it\u0027s not clear how within this base in the RFC the seats should be registered and administrated so this is what we propose that once you have a set range "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:56",
    "text": "for every module in RFC that the contents of the seat files which are this tire which actually specified this is the young name and it\u0027s the seat fell that that is part of the of the RFC just like the same as you have now that the whole young specification is part of the RFC and also how for example the tree which you have which is specific which is constructed as part of the RFC so we want to include that as well but we also then once that apart from that the module do normally is registered by Jana which tells you how about what is in it that also the seat range is administrated by Jana so that we can also then say find that for every module which is in there is in the RFC we find the name - sits a map which is part and which will not be changed and is actually on the responsibility of Jana you want to say something yes do you want some answers or some questions right now or at the end of the presentation if you can wait a second and we\u0027ll be ok happy thanks so what we then will ask for our Jana is to provide an extension to the young parameter registry in this young parameter residency we also find we already find a module suppress history and so via suggestion is to create an additional shit module suppress history in which is mentioned the sit file in which you can find them all the administrator that young names and the seat the seat Swisscom purchase that so that I will feel reasonably happy that this will remain constant and over the years can be used and reused ok so Alexander on the mic thanks very much for email and for this presentation Peter so this is completely in line with what the company space and on the whole thing the whole system that it it was supposed to work right once you assign and I think Carsten pitched in on the mailing list once you assign the CID then it never changes and of course this we meet up to Ariana times and this is really something in the in the way things should be working so I really like what you said here because we really need to specify like some indeed some places you the process is not specific enough then we need to go and and make sure that it is actually written in a way that works for people that are actually using it so that does seem to me to be like yes this is in the way that listen how I felt it it goes exactly in that direction and it just in this in like okay well there is maybe something that was not explicit let\u0027s make it explicit yeah yeah because we have looked at what was written down and we didn\u0027t exactly know so that\u0027s our brains came up with this okay thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:00",
    "text": "trying to so of course I Jana has to be happy with doing this I mean given that there will be hundreds of modules with hundreds of names in it so essentially this registry will in the end have ten thousand hundred thousands of entries so we have to make sure that ini can actually handle that as far as I understand you have discussed this with Michelle to some extent yes so we discussing with Michelle and she was basically also always saying well you know just get the Lascaux we\u0027re pretty happy with most of the things that are that are out there and we just want some more feedback but they\u0027re pretty happy with the things are as they are right now so now when you say okay we need to specify a little bit more this process maybe there will be a couple of questions popping up from Cap\u0027n coming back from Michelle to say okay how do we exactly do that because she\u0027s really very very constructive and she really wants to to make sure that things make sense to her so can see it you have a module in IRC and there\u0027s no shit for allocated what do I do all of the sudden yeah yeah but I mean for me this is very very that can be worked out but and if you are able to contribute some some text to to that actually to actually specifying the other way this behavior works and and you know make sure that we actually go and I mean also you and together we go to Michelle and and make sure that your text actually corresponds to something that she considers not a horrible nightmare but a beautiful thing then of course it\u0027s that\u0027s good so the the procedure will be to actually get this into the the document and then get agreement from Michelle that this actually can be done and get agreement from the other Michelle that Kumail dot space actually does this and great wonderful okay now that was like thank you Peter so the the this was one of the very very few issues that we have been discussing about these drafts that that have been sitting there for quite a while the other one was with a Yangtze border human should have a context dependence and I think in Monterey we decided it should not have a context dependence and we now have updated drafts that that reflect that and the next thing we need to do is to finish this now it turns out all the the current offers of these documents have a lot of things to do and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "so this makes it a little bit hard to actually do the finishing here and I have a proposal that I hope nobody objects true which is that we add an editor to the conf documents whose job is to get them finished and so I had this idea at the hackathon and I looked around and and the one person that that yeah I said I was sitting pretty close to invite her at the time so actually available if you hear him talking it sounds exactly like me shares so he is like like really good stand and furnish every yet but he also knows a lot about all this technology so I think he\u0027s also the right person to do this so I\u0027m proposing that that we add a value to the documents as an editor and yeah give him a chance to finish this so from a procedural point of view the workgroup chairs can just do that so I could just declare this but of course I would like to hear what people think about so as an author of this draft I support this because it\u0027s see I mean we\u0027ve been like the little epsilon the little Delta that is really having some where someone every day thinking about this I would be about getting this finished and not having been on two continents and stuff like this it\u0027s really helpful so I think that\u0027s we need this type of person and second perspectives having no a value I think that he\u0027s more than capable of them they\u0027re getting a job done I\u0027m not sure if Michelle is the other Michelle usually in Canada is listening but somebody has to break this to him and I think that we can go ahead good so we have 15 minutes left to pull things forward from Thursday so let\u0027s do that and the next one on the first day agenda is the Deaf UN tortured sorry yes okay so this would be brief just as a reminder this is of course the urin types for devices with various kinds of addresses MAC addresses and one where addresses and so forth expanding that a little bit in recent times version three basically had no major changes we had some reference updates and we\u0027d be go a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:01",
    "text": "little bit back and forth on the exact syntax and as part of the some of the incorporation of other identifier types in into the dev viewer and we had added the person encoding last time after looking at that a little bit more we were making a change there again and Dave you were in selected likely to appear in sin ml sensor name fields which have been defined in 84 28 us with a very limited character set in order to then be able to easily be lifted out and used in various query components and and basically this this means that it\u0027s it\u0027s not a necessary good idea to include person signs so if we take that out maybe that\u0027s that\u0027s okay but otherwise this is relatively stable as at least us as one considers two things that are in the draft today one could of course expand that that maybe that\u0027s the discussion to be had now so just to draw more exploit on this the draft actually takes over some things that were previously in the or are currently still in the lightweight machine-to-machine specifications there\u0027s the OS and o-p-s syntax for serial numbers and they\u0027re not exactly in in the same format in this draft that they were in in the OMS spec but I think it makes sense for the ITF to sort of try and generalize like okay seems like a useful thing let\u0027s let\u0027s make sure that\u0027s actually defined and fits with the rest of the structure index wise it doesn\u0027t use the person signs and all kinds of other things like that so we\u0027re making a change we were incorporating some things and we have been trying to ask if there\u0027s people who would be impacted by that we haven\u0027t found any but I don\u0027t know if we reached everybody so now we could turn to shout if any of that causes heartburn for you I should also mention that there are some other types in this these are my specifications that we did not deal with and there might be some opinion that we should deal with some of that so there\u0027s a couple of things there they refer to the NAI you were in type that doesn\u0027t exist anymore nobody\u0027s defined that it felt a little bit like that\u0027s not our or in it\u0027s not a great fit for this draft but it might be every useful thing perhaps to do and then there\u0027s some other things that maybe at least on last time I looked at it might need some slight adjustment there there are some UN types that can be used for some of these things like maids anime and so forth but at least one might look that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "the zoomtext isn\u0027t didn\u0027t seem to be exactly correct at the spec at the time that I looked at it so I guess the question is where do we stop like do we stop here or do we add something and I you know I\u0027m just editing this draft it\u0027s up to you guys to say what should we do so I\u0027ll leave it at that and open it up for comments thank you Gary this is Mattias Simmons so there\u0027s something I contacted you I think to IDF\u0027s ago so the context is I\u0027m active in the w3c at this web of things working group and the background is there a lot of kind of companies who don\u0027t have this detailed background in Internet and web technology but they want to kind of move there one one thing I saw is that they wanted to have something like your ends and use them but they didn\u0027t know that there is something in the beginning that basically defines how you can use them so there was things like a UN : company name and then a common pattern was something like the Java package names to have like an easy way to construct something that is unique but kind of intuitive and so on so what happened is that we now have a lot of drafts where we have these sloppy examples where we have like un def wot I try to kind of converge this already to the the patrons defined by your draft but I saw kind of a need for this kind of easy way to make up a unique you are in I think we have that easy way because we have this organization and serial number and and so on based options here so if if you can you know bother yourself by registering a Enterprise number from Ayana which would be really easy like basically an email or fill in a template then then you can stick that into the right branch here and then do whatever afterwards yeah and exactly this part to be aware that there is an IANA registry where every company could get this number for free and so on just to my experience is already too much for many people who do their own model number serial number kind of encoding of unique identifiers so is this something that we should solve with more education and and sort of preaching to people or we\u0027re gonna define whatever you are in type and then yes so I don\u0027t have my own agenda on this so I want to bring it up to basically get some more input how we should do this so um I\u0027ve been going around to to people who started viewing using your ends especially internally in the company and point to this draft like pick something that works correctly I use the UUID if you use uu IDs there but don\u0027t it\u0027s it\u0027s not a free format that you can choose so there is definitely a need for education but may be a good solution would also be that there\u0027s one like pick this one if you want to be free and then to have something very intuitive that that\u0027s just a proposal that might be something that would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:01",
    "text": "sort of easy to write something higher up in the document that\u0027s it like if you\u0027re just looking for this go into this section and use this kind of style might be easy to point to yes this meta question is if there is some feedback on should we have something like the Java package named style where you can use your own domain name that basically is unique that\u0027s why it was chosen there and then construct something tech space that fits your needs or yeah if you should have to the stronger push back and and educate people here do it that way and then maybe improve the document as you suggested that is kind of the really free steps explanation how to get it yeah I don\u0027t have a strong opinion that we currently have the the enterprise number scheme we could certainly have or go I think we actually had previously re do you remember we had previously a version that that used the domain names that that\u0027s an option to if that that feels like more usable but but I wonder if the problem is that they like they\u0027re not ending up with this draft or RFC at all and then it\u0027s kind of difficult for us to do anything or if the problem is that they don\u0027t know how to field on a template yet that I don\u0027t know it seems like they don\u0027t know about the general process so it really helps to have examples in the document so one quick comment I would like to make about enterprise numbers is that in some organizations it\u0027s really difficult to get control over what you are supposed to do with an enterprise number I mean imagine Siemens this is a big organization then somebody has this enterprise number and are you allowed to use this enterprise number in a specific context that requires some work yeah so I have lessons we take I mean aim multiple ones easily and even both the company with the number five and it\u0027s okay yeah maybe multiple ones but you have for instance between Siemens it would be really hard to know like who\u0027s actually person responsible to register this who is then allowed to use that what is the process to have some Sabbath under that because like there is the the brand then there are these different divisions and kind of what I saw is that the divisions figured out how to do the domain registration so these subdomains that works that\u0027s something that is established the other thing is not so point taken so maybe that does point us to the direction of adding something that would allow domain names then I put my part from Nokia we had an exchange earlier on the lightweight machine to machine so basically on the NAI and Amir I mean MZ etc these combinations are all used under the lightweight m2m tears under the assumption that these are device identifier so it\u0027s like you are n the needs which are being brought in by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:03",
    "text": "different operators so there isn\u0027t so it is used within the network and under the u RN : do with this kind of identifier like IM e MZ so so my understanding is that the the the spec refers to multiple u RN types like that day viewer and is one of them but there\u0027s also others like UUID and and and so on and and then the only way there\u0027s no question about that and that that seems very sensible and and so on but but then there\u0027s some that haven\u0027t been defined it\u0027s like you need to either fall into this draft that we\u0027re discussing here or some other draft somewhere and and some that like might need some small editing in the in the spec because they\u0027re pointing to the like the string is wrong that you stick in front of the identifier and because this be defined by 3gpp and other RFC\u0027s in the ITF previously like I\u0027ll fuck this MC stuff and so on yeah I agree to that I mean some of this should needs to be added but in the context of this you are on : dev can we extend your n : dev with all these what are part of that network and it\u0027s a device identified so it could be like in nai or it could be anything what that network would like to use beyond that you are n : diff then it becomes like a unique identifier within that network zone because like for example like I mean or in zzzz brought in from the SIM card and it\u0027s used within the network but it\u0027s a device identifier when it is an IOT network we already have and some of those things already accessed us us different you are entice I\u0027m not sure we want to sort of redefine that that that would seem a little you know maybe I\u0027ll I don\u0027t know people here say but one is in the context of network access and the other now we are trying to define in the terms of it\u0027s a device you are and so it\u0027s a IOT context so that\u0027s where somewhere it has a common part but it\u0027s it\u0027s so again I\u0027m just editing this thing you guys tell me what to do my personal opinion is that we should probably not mix the fact that we are you doing IOT with that sort of the identity for us we did like we have different types of identifiers and we use them for different purposes sometimes it\u0027s an IOT device sometimes it\u0027s something else and so let\u0027s just define all the all the ones you know possibly in one or multiple you are n types but we shouldn\u0027t necessarily try and do everything under the dev you are and that seems personally but but then there\u0027s like the question of the nai which we you and I discussed like what to do with that should we have somebody else drive a draft on that or stick it in here or forget it or take it offline but in terms of what is part of dev identifiers and URL I think it\u0027s all should come "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:04",
    "text": "here and if it doesn\u0027t fit then it cannot be used that should be the suggestion or recommendation from this final outcome or akhirin and I think we have already quite a few non there you are in IDs that we are using for devices so I don\u0027t see it necessary a big problem and redefining existing URL schemes under dev you are and sounds it\u0027s flaky probably would end up people using both and they would have to do exactly so maybe it\u0027s a bit of a disgust an asura scope of this draft what is a proper high de fire for a device in general or network identifiers Probert 400 virus my hunch is why not but maybe that\u0027s a bit bigger discussion maybe even Archie\u0027s area mattias so yeah I think there might be an informal document about that that explains what are your ends and how do you use that and I mean it doesn\u0027t help that there is a death in the end and you know art is to identify in device because it\u0027s kind of at two different levels where it is I kind of what is using be identifies and then you only need unique ones and it doesn\u0027t have to be in you identify itself for what you are using it I think that that would make a great research group document identify us and identities in the IOT I mean you could derive 10 phd\u0027s I would actually give some credit for the light wave into an document on that that record I mean they actually try to identify that these are the things that we need in the industry and I mean that the only problem with that is is that okay it shouldn\u0027t point to things that don\u0027t exist if they don\u0027t exist we should either get rid of them or define them so we have three minutes left which is great because I promised somebody that he would have time on the agenda today are we done are you still there so we we have been discussing interesting things you might be using coop for and there are a lot of people out there in the operational area that want to use coop for telemetry for network management information so that\u0027s interesting and here we have another interesting thing using coop for streaming so you have three minutes you probably can extend beyond the end of the meeting which it\u0027s just that people will start leaving and you have a microphone hello everyone so let me just briefly go through the use case yeah so we were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:07",
    "text": "working on a real business problem the problem was that in many cases people want to stream the live first-person view over internet over IP to do certain intelligence for operations in warehouse or for some monitoring or for defining the path that a dump robotic terminal should take remotely so that is called visual slam so visual simultaneous localization and mapping so now the thing is that the experience is the existing technologies that are used for streaming causes certain kind of I mean video freezes and lots of problems happen because of non real-time Ness and on non guarantee in delivery and all these things so when this problem came to us we kind of look back into where and what we realized is that probably we can look at crap from this angle also so one side we have HTTP on TCP and that is the de facto standard right now for streaming over the public Internet right they some some or other variation using adaptive bitrate on top of that but the core thing is HTTP handshakes right so we have restfulness standardized API is we have reliability in their wide adaption we have condition avoidance on the other side if you look at the initial days since the beginning of this millennia so we had this RTP on UDP which guarantees real-time this but reliability is missing now if we combine these two we see that co-op is restful co-op has both the options so you can change between optionally between reliability delivery and based effort delivery and because no response actually gives you the open-loop delivery so we have we can marry the best of these two words using intelligently so the idea is that can we have something that is equally good in sending small sensor data as well as streaming video or a time series streaming can you have something like a counterpart of HTTP so HTTP is while it is giving you web services normal web services at the same time it is not treating video as a special special care type of data and it is streaming video with the same infrastructure so can we have something for these scenario because in many cases the dump terminals which are moving around across warehouses or in different fields or for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:07",
    "text": "some remote maintenance they are also sending some small tiny sensor data as well as well as they\u0027re sending the first-person view so that the person sitting at the control room can do something so I will not go through much details because to honor the time so we made certain extensions I will directly go to the results and experiments you please go through the draft if you are interested these are few headed extensions that we have kind of borrowed because we want to relate segments so it is it is following the same methodology as the progressive download or for what we had for HTTP streaming the basic technology that is the same thing we are using so chunk and what we are doing here is that based on the criticality of the current Chang what is the criticality of the segment that is being delivered does it transfer certain important metadata or there may be several other criterias and that depends on the context we are deciding whether to go for based based effort delivery or whether to go for reliable delivery so that way we can maintain a balance between your reliable delivery real tennis right and the other thing is that if you\u0027re receiving end does have enough computing capacity so you have 100% reliable made the metadata and critical information and based on the loss probability of the channel you have certain part of the critical non critical information combining these two you can actually predict the whole frame so that technology is available and many people working on image processing and video processing are actually using that and also if you are not able to send the critical information drop the whole frame so that we are implicitly condition here avoiding the condition implicitly we did certain these are the Hanshin see will find them in okay so this is this was our setup so one thing we did is for open Internet for different abilities so we had raspberry PI\u0027s where we installed the program so one had HTTP streaming one had aerialist and this guy was sitting at this end he is working with me and we are streaming this over an emulated network setup and we are trying to get the data on three different interfaces here over were shocked and there was another thing was we try to create a realistic loss model so there is an an AV moving around a work a warehouse and there is an obstruction radio of section which is creating some shadowed area and probably for three seconds it takes to cover this area for two or three seconds and we are getting a radio I mean zero radio zone "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:07",
    "text": "over there so just to come with this so this is what we are getting is very excellent result using by streaming in on fire so one thing to and we compared with RTP as well we have not produced the result RTP is not giving us good psnr because of the reason that if the metadata gets lost you have no mechanism to retrieve it but in case of where you have some chances of retrieving the meta so we were getting better sanity in terms of reception of frames and in terms of reception of or in terms of reproducing the frames at the receiving end and this is also another experiment that we did with real ApS the mobile aps that we have in India so so this is the topology and this guy is holding the AP it is close to the raspberry PI\u0027s and now this guy is moving out so as he is moving across the region what we have is it drop in the RSSI receive signal strength and what we see is that when it is in this region there the HTTP stream or the standard streaming mechanism it kind of freezes at that point of time and then when this guy starts to move back to the same place and we were actually holding a stopwatch I mean I was holding the stopwatch and so and we were recording the time what is the time that is being streamed to from the video producer to video consumer so when this guy comes back and I so now the signal has actually gone back to this level what I see is that in in case of what we did over where we see that the consumer is showing just the exact time what we are showing so there is momentary loss because a signal just dropped down so there is ZERO radio kind of thing but it quickly recovered back alright whereas here you see a complete 6 second lag within this period of time and if I have more loss instances over there these 6 seconds will get increased if I use RTP then what will happen is at least I lose more of the frames in this case we just work with JPEG streaming one of the reason for our motion JPEG one of the reasons for using motion JPEG is that we wanted to avoid the complexity of time compression in these case and the other thing is that in many cases to take the decision the decision logic uses information in the frame so they have to reconstruct the frame and do the image processing to extract the information so if I am transferring the motion JPEG maybe I\u0027m not at that high frame rate maybe I am "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:07:09",
    "text": "in this case we send I think five or six frames per second but that was when he spoke to the engineering Treeing who are working out wrong they said that it is quite good for them to I mean do a survey or do a scanning or things like that so I request you to please go through the draft and if you have any comments and what I think is that this kind of work will go well with the to many responses and some of the streaming or time series related contributions that are going on in T to PRT as well as in this and that\u0027s it from my side I think T is waiting yeah thank you so I think it\u0027s really interesting there are ways can be used that I wouldn\u0027t have dreamed of and I think we probably have the research group where we can look at some some of these aspects as well and I think we should find how these customers from management from from this is not exactly video it\u0027s a slightly different kind of video but how they actually fit into our ecosystem and and we had the dots people here the last time and I think this is all very interesting very promising and it would ask you to have a look at the document that directory and look there for more details so with this I think we\u0027re at the end of the the meeting and see you all on Thursday thank you [Music] "
  }
]