[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "here all right it is 12 30 so i think we're in time to go um welcome everybody this is the the anima working group at itf 113 hybrid um if that's not what you're expected to you're in the wrong room um so there were a bunch of new wonderful slides about the hybrid experience we're having here but i i'm guessing that given how this is the last session of the week if we haven't figured out how to do it by now it's probably too late the one thing that's always very much appreciated for the people in the room when you step up to the microphone before that uh please you know click um on raise the hand so that the remote audience will also see your name in the queue i think that's the most important one otherwise standard procedures itf note well everything is public and there are a lot of interesting bcps when you can't sleep that you should be aware of right logistics i think there is nothing of importance here we've got a note taker but it's also everybody else who wants to uh help taking the notes uh please go to the hedgehog document and help with it so let's let's go through some of these reminder slides here that i hope are always useful we've got the early ipr disclosure process so by the time that we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "adopting a document we're already asking the ipr question so that we're not surprised later on about a possible ipr in the document when we try to offload the document to isg to become an rfc we also now have eight rfcs so especially for the folks amongst you that are implementing either of those when you find any bugs and problems of course raise them with a list but specifically when they're against the text we have an errata system in the ietf that allows you to track any such textual issues and when you are implementing you obviously also want to read the erratas of of those rfcs in case they do impact the implementation which i think a few of them do um so right so now let's get through the actual working documents that we have um so the first one the oldest one is the um asa guideline document um there is no slot for it i think the main author is uh well asleep in new zealand right now um and it is an auth 48 for 45 days so i think that leaves it three more days um no kidding um but yeah it should be a an rfc pretty soon and i'm not aware of any issues in the author 48 process left um so that brings us uh to ongoing work um brewski cloud we've got a slot for it you are actually misleading people for the 48 it was 48 hours 48 days i'm sorry that was a a badly explained joke but uh yeah i'm yeah it's it's actually meant to be 48 hours but uh we are seeing a large variation of how long earth 48 takes so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "that number of days is actually not not really untypical for how long that stage of the process takes sorry for reminding me that that joke should have been explained all right then um so i've been trying to track you know where work actually happened so you'll see that most of the working group documents that we have have been doing good work and we're having slots for them so no need to mention that in more detail here um what's specific so we've got the constraint join proxy um that is in the process of being submitted to isg so i think the current state is a ad review um so that's hopefully going through well um we'll hear in the slot um we've got the brucey essing and roll where um there will be a name change coming up that's the unusual thing about that one we've got brewski prm that all those are talked in slots we've got the constraint voucher where in the last ietf we felt we needed a more early review from the broader community i'm going to talk about that separately in general but that has happened very nicely since itf-112 we've got the jws voucher um standard ongoing now we have grass distribution i talked with the authors and um there is no slot here for this one um the shepherd has done an extensive review since the last version and the authors are working on a reply but they couldn't come to the ietf this time around so that's why they didn't request a slot and and didn't hurry with their update to meet the deadlines for this idea so hopefully uh we'll talk about that one in philadelphia um then we've got one which was closer for this draft uh well running will we only receive very minor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "comments and that would be addressed very soon so um we feel there's nothing um major to report yeah i think the major part is the shepherd review so i think that that would be the major i think feedback to take into account sure right um so one thing that slipped through the cracks michael the voucher delegation um that's expired nothing for it so it's it's just kind of uh in the whole list of priorities just at the bottom end all right so let me just quickly take a note on that one voucher delegation it's just low priority versus the other working group drafts okay right um we've got the rfc8366bis and finally we've got the service auto deployment and also the authors for that one couldn't come to the ietf so no slot for that one you must miss something here others did request slots and they upload these slides as well wow okay let me see is that am i infrastructure yeah the slides number seven seven oh okay right so that that there was a mismatch on my side okay i'll have to fix the agenda slide and uh upload a fix to the agenda so let me do a tbd yeah hopefully that was that was just good enough yeah yeah sorry for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "that was my mistake with this shared slides okay so that that's the main work i'm not going to mention here in the chair slides the non-working group items that we have on the agenda just let me quickly finish and get to the the real work um so uh one of the ongoing issues please you know when especially when you're an author of a document in the working group um you know mutually review other working group documents to help the the working group to really do its uh job and move forward and if you're not sure which document would be good for you to review just ask us shares and i will be happy to help doing that also the process that you solve after itf-112 where we as the chairs are helping to get the formal early reviews from other groups in the ietf like working groups and directorates to happen so that we don't overload the last call and isg review in the end but that we do it during the working group stage as good as possible shepherding is another way on how you can show your appreciation of the fact that you're going to be an author of an rfc um when it's finally through and so we haven't really made much of progress since itf-1112 with these documents here that all still don't have shepherds so i guess we as working group chairs are going to reach out more to the authors of of the different documents to help that to help more mutually in the coming months as appropriate seeing which of these documents are far enough in the process that um a shepherd would really be helpful technical discussions so yes these working group meetings are always overboarding with process status updates but that's just the cost of doing business in an organized fashion and it's not the only way on how we can do work the real work happens typically on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "the mailing list and it can also very nicely happen on regular site meetings interims there are a lot of options what has worked best for animal so far is the what we informally call the brewski design team weekly meeting michael is responsible for setting that up i hope the time that i have here is the correct one but otherwise uh um if it's not the correct one um i'll be happy to to work with michael that we send hour it's half an hour later okay okay update slot 4 weekly meeting sent out to list okay right so that's another tpd for me uh we'll we'll send an update for that um also we do have a github it's great especially uh when you want to collect and structure any feedback that you're getting one of the most easy things to make sure that any concern you have about a document doesn't get lost in mailing this discussion is to open up an issue in the github entry for that particular document and that's already a good enough reason that all of the animal documents should have a github entry i think so far that is true um because it is great for tracking any issues better than the mailing list alone but obviously any real issues should always go to the mailing list but tracking is is very nice on github and i think that's it with process so who would like to step up first to the microphone we have um i think michael here listed for uh the status update on the constrained voucher and the hackathon that had seemingly has happened for it okay i mean maybe stop share the slides and it worked before you find the slides here constraint"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "voucher unfortunately this is amazing it's amazing we could have now you know we could have a slide clicker that works over the internet right that's that's that's a that's that's that's the major accomplishment of this year so how do i meet on the internet do i click so that you can find my name okay hover next to it okay and you see that third button okay no that's the wrong yeah yeah that's pretty controversial all right so i'll lie back and drink a bad coffee that's right here you go yeah please um okay so the constraint voucher document is actually it's at 16 i'm sorry i think it's at 16 not 15. um panos esko peter and i um and uh um you know this is the i really like this big duck it's really nice um but uh a little bit about it i mentioned brewski.org um before i'll mention again and uh but constrained voucher is rfc 8995 re-implemented in terms of cosi and c-bor over dtls using coap so take all of the regular big protocols and replace them with constrained ones and that's what you get since 112 there's a url if you have the slides you can see the thing um many small edits you'll see there's i think i counted like 17 or 18 diffs or something like this and most of them are one word changes um we fixed and validated all of the examples we realized that one of the things we had wrong and actually my code is still wrong about is uh the pro proxy the assertions map them to strings which is wrong because there's no reason to send that many bytes but piang doesn't actually do the mapping for you so we've actually put a table in the document which does that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "we've not made it an iana registry because in order to change that thing you would have to go back to the um yang doc yang part and extend it there's an interaction there with uh the rc 83 8366 bis eff work there too uh that we'll come back to um we have tried to do interop efforts okay um we were much we were most well organized last summer when we had a week-long interop and we uh got some real work done uh during that process um ietf has set up the hackathon efforts has set up in a layer 2 vpn um initially it was a raspberry pi requirement and then it became a micro tick box requirement and um at least two of us are now able to run that uh regularly mine just is running you can ping it if you like peter turn it on and off and we can do things the reason why that's useful to us is because of course we have a discovery protocol that runs over l2 and needs multicast and that actually works over the vpn so we can actually test that um we have not yet done that because there are other things that have gotten in the way and i would say the biggest problem is probably time zones just getting everyone to to say okay i'm going to work together at this time and it's not always convenient for everybody but we're continuing to do that and we're very open to more people joining this and the vpn the itf vpn makes it really easy to do and particularly if your lab is behind three layers of you know corporate firewalls or something then um the box might actually let you you know have a land that's effectively not behind their control i'd ask first though so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "there you go um what are the issues so we actually still have an early allocation that request that i think we should emphasize um i guess you know we've used 6502 which is a private use value um and uh we need we need to come back and mr chair and please can we do this early allocation on this because that would be useful to do um and then we'll have to fix our code to actually support both for a little while and come back to that that's just for the content format on the co-app right on that request so it's not not super critical but it's it's uh it's just annoying um i happen to run multiple nasa instances in a multi-tenant situation where you must have the sni set properly to get the right web server so this is probably a good thing that i have been so stingy as to not they run on separate ipv6 addresses but they use the same ipv4 address i could have gone another ipv4 address but i didn't really care about that about v4 so the s s and i must be set correctly or you won't get to my correct server and so that's kind of useful because it turned out it's revealed a number of bugs and a number of other clients uh that otherwise were not revealed by uh other instances so that is uh there's uh whatever is called that draft use it or lose it kind of thing it's kind of useful um i still haven't quite got the authority key identifier correct in the idev id and this has been a source of interop issues um and uh so we're still kind of working on that that's actually really goes back to rfc 8995 and voucher even to have that right um and uh we're going to figure that out you know going on because it's getting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "in the way of things so those are kind of the issues um it would be nice to have everyone come to philadelphia and be in the same room and not have any distractions so that i think is the major advantage of being in person the major disadvantage of course is when you find a bug it might take you 12 hours to fix it by which point the hackathon is over right so that's the downside of not doing that and that's really it any questions or whatever thing the document is really ready for working group last call or additional reviews um there's some feeling that the examples maybe aren't uh proven to be correct until we've all interoperated successfully with all of them um but at this point i feel actually that's probably it's that's probably boiling the ocean we're probably they're probably good enough at this point so um and we'll resume uh meeting in in april not next week but the week after thank you you see do i do that yeah that works okay so i've taken any questions from the the oh esko go ahead yeah hey yeah michael just to remark yeah so the examples you mentioned um so uh we still have the kind of older examples in and they were not yet updated to the latest and the results of the hackathon but i agree with you that for the document not considering these examples i think the rest is ready for the review indeed i kind of consider examples are updatable into auth 48 and that's one of the things that you might do in auth48 um is make sure really be sure but um you know we can go through all the reviews we don't have i don't think we have to wait for all of that to get the rest of the reviews happen yeah i agree so expect the document soon rob so you you had some um good suggestions for the early reviews i was just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "wondering whether you want to do it publicly or not if you have an idea about whom we should try to draft as the shepherd oh as the shepherd i don't know who the shepherd should be right give it a thought um okay um no other i would suggest you yeah that was the i don't know the most obvious public answer but maybe there is a non-public answer um otherwise um we probably should have an iot uh directorate review if we haven't already and i would really like to get the same three reviewers that did the major their major reviews for um for brewski for eight nine nine five russ housley reviewed it early last year and it wasn't ready yet so i'd like to have him repeat and the reason for that is because they've already read those the other documents and therefore they'll that the diff to be constrained would be much more obvious to them so that was yagi uh christian and russ that reviewed last time so i'd love to have them do it again i don't know if they have time um i think christian's officially retired or something at this point in sales only so okay right what's next where's the agenda so uh right so we've got status update in on jws voucher who wants to present is that local remote thomas it sounds as if you want to go yeah that's me hello from my side um yes so let me take the where is it so i haven't shared the slides do you want to share them yourself or do you want me to find them choose a deck to share okay um so now it will be available"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "okay so yeah this is a short update on the jws and vouchers we we started some months ago or almost a year um and it's in version three currently so let's let's see what we have uh next slide so here to to recover a bit so this is another form factor to the original voucher rfc 8366 which specifies um cms signed json and here we see another option which is jws sign json so there are no changes to the yang and so this new voucher format could be used for standard briskies or 8995 or and it also also the brisket prm and so pledge and responder modes relies on the jws form factor here what else do we have next slide so um the the options we had so um initially we started with the aws compact serialization which you can find in chapter 3.1 of rfc 7515 and so this was an arbitrary choice and because it was convenient looking to the libraries no big deal for implementations here but lately we changed to general jws json serialization for uh reasons um so we we want to have uh or maybe future you use cases could um require more than one signature to a voucher object and also not to limit this new form factor um to one signature and compared to the existing vouchers like json and um cms and also sibo and cosec"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "so we do not want to have a difference here because this other form factors also support multiple signatures on on on on the voucher payload so this this is why we are switched to this um other form factor and we will see it i think on the next slide yes um here i have a voucher representation so on the left hand side you can see uh yeah general jws json um serialization syntax looking at the payload yeah you can see it's a voucher with some fields everybody should know so um assertion serial number nones for example created on pin domain certificate and then we see the signatures array at the bottom so here it's only showing one signature but the um the brackets in brackets indicate that you can have multiple signatures in that so and um so details can be found in the in the draft so figure one gives more details on that and then we also have an example in the appendix which is then the um the ddt voucher itself as an example so and you can see it here we have the payload a64 encoded and then we again have the signatures array with the protected header of a64 encoded and the um matching signature also base64 encoded and that's all so to the syntax and to the example yeah history of changes so main change was go from compact to general theorization and what we did is also include zoomtext and examples for the um different objects which is pledge"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "voucher request registrar voucher request and the voucher itself um that's that one and then yeah the next step is to enhance the description so i think uh content-wise we are complete but uh we need some more um [Music] writing uh to to give some some more meat in there and um to make it easy for for the for the reader to get a good understanding of what we are doing and how the how the form factor is meant to be then we have regular alignment in the design team calls um we circulate the outcome to the mailing list and we have poc implementations um together with brisket prm and yeah also here working group you appreciated and i think that's it it's only the appropriations yeah that's it are there questions no then we are done thank you very much okay thank you so that brings us to brewski prm stefan yeah that's what we mean wait a second i need to revoke the slides and steph and now you can start sharing your slides i tried to request the slides request again that was because there was still the previous year okay so i requested nothing happened oh yeah i don't know why that should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "okay let me try it again master chance lights ah there it is [Music] so it should be visible yeah i would like to give an update of the work we are currently doing thanks i would like to give an update on the work we are currently doing for brewski and pledge in responder mode prm so that's a work that besides thomas and i eliot and michael are involved in so since the last itf we have uh two two uh updates or two versions from the draft so in the first update uh we addressed several issues that were discussed on the anima github and in the design team uh so i'm starting from the beginning so issue 15 was uh we incorporated an option for additional signature of the voucher so this is what thomas just mentioned in the uh those are the old slides yeah anyway um we incorporated in uh the additional signature for the voucher uh which is intended to provide the proof of procession of the registrar proof of possession of the registrar private key so in brewski prm the uh we reverse uh the the roles of the pledge and the registrar in terms of pushing information down to the pledge and at first the registrar agent pushed down pushes down the registrar's certificate to the pledge but the pledge doesn't have a proof of procession so we use a second a second signature of the voucher itself to provide that information down to the to the pledge when the voucher comes back from the mazar and descent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "forwarded via the pledge agent down to the to the registrar so i have a slide afterwards to that as well so then we included a new endpoint on the registrar which became necessary because we want to deliver the wrapped enrollment request so we have a pkcs10 which is typically provided to the est simple enroll endpoint in brewski prm we are using a signature wrapped pk cs10 so that was a reason to define an own endpoint on the registrar to not uh to not change esd at that point in time so then we had issue number eight and seven they somehow are corresponding uh we were thinking in the very first beginning to support multiple csrs during the run of brewski prm but then decided to have a single cr csr certificate signing request to enroll for an ldf id and entity certificate which is a generic ldfid and based on the elder generic ldfid further certificates may be bootstrapped for the endpoint so that can be done using the existing endpoints on the on the registrar but it's not intended to do that on the first flight so that was the reason to to drop the support for multiple csrs and consequently we also have dropped the support for additional signatures on the enrollment response as we just have a single generic lfid certificate as response for the enrollment request so based on the poc we also verified that we utilize the itf ztp types the young definition for that correctly and uh issue number four is also solved so that is the assertion type which was aligned with the voucher definition in rfc 83 66 bisp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "so we have defined a new assertion type there which is called agent proximity so then in in the context of bootstrapping we introduced the registrar agent that provides some information to the pledge and one of the information here is agent sign cert up to now we had it as a single certificate and now we changed it to an array to also uh address situations in which the registrar agent may have a different certificate or a certificate pass than the registrar itself so having the array would allow to also provide intermediate certificates for the agent signed third so then there was some some further enhancement of the text that better provides authorization checks of the registrar agent and uh some further housekeeping with uh providing a more elaborate inquiry description of the examples that we are provided for the triggering of pledge voucher requests and enrollment requests we also included a limitation section here to note that if the pledge is in power save mode then there is no way in starting the communication except that the pledge comes back from from the power save mode as this is targeting the push scenario instead of the pull scenario so then uh sorry for for having the old slides here uh so issue number 15 i already addressed in the in the first version here uh in the first change to version one so we finalized here the handling of the additional signature verification so it's basically some enhancement of the text that was included here to have the order of the signature verification when the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "uh the voucher which which is now signed also by the register is is received by the pledge then we included some further examples for the generalized jws json serialization in the same way as thomas just showed before for the jws voucher draft and further included arrow responses from the patch if it is not able to create certain requests so issues 7 8 14 are basically resolved by sticking to one certificate that is requested to drink the generic ldf id and getting back also a single certificate so that are all corresponding to the to the changes or to the issues that i've mentioned before so just to picture this uh utilization of multiple signatures on the voucher response so on the right hand side that is the flow chart i always used as an awful echo by the way um the right hand side shows the flow chart that i uh showed at the ids before that gives some more detail on the interaction between the pledge the registrar agent and the domain registrar and what we try to do here or what we defined here is basically the provisional accept that is used in brewski in the original brewski based on the preliminary provisional accept and the tls handshake we rebuilt that here by providing the certificate in the first flight and the trigger of the voucher request message from the registrar agent down to the pledge we have the registrar included here but in contrast to the original brewski where you already have a proof of possession by the registrar of the corresponding private key through the tls handshake we don't have that here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "so that was the reason to enhance the voucher as you can see on the left hand side with the second signature and that signature is provided on the way back from the from the mazda to the domain registrar the domain register provides that additional signature of the voucher and then we describe the order in which to verify the signatures of this double sign voucher to enable the pledge to on one hand accept the contained pinned domain certificate as new trust anchor and also verify that the registrar with whom he is in contact really possesses the private key to the certificate that he has that he has received in the first flight this is just to depict that okay so uh based on the current state of the draft we have no open issues so there we used to collect open issues also in the draft and stated them throughout the draft that was that was all of those open issues are solved the open issues we collected on the animal github are also solved so currently the draft itself has no open issues what is missing right now is a more elaborate discussion in the security consideration section that needs to be updated uh we have the pog implementation ongoing and also the interrupt testing so that is in conjunction with what thomas said regarding the jws voucher from that point of view i would like to ask for volunteers for peer review and also request working group review thank you by the way i think instead of just doing it here if you reach out individual individual to you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "folks in the ietf in the working group here and other working groups and ask them i think that's uh typically more effective and okay if if you can reciprocate with with other documents from them or so that typically will then even be faster yep any questions for the draft all right that sounds like we have a wrap on this item so okay you stop the share great and next in line would be brewski ae with a new member yeah author here let me see can you hear me my name is dave we can hear you find david um can you uh try to share the slides yourself um i would ask you to share if otherwise you can also give it a try i can try to share the slides and just so good taking notes great thanks yeah so i'm reporting on the status of bruce key ae the current draft version is o5 and ae originally stood for asynchronous enrollment as the main use case but since uh about half a year or so in the design team we figured that it's actually the scope can be widened with the application scope so this scope of technical scope is the same as before but actually we can accommodate much more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "use cases um and this is much better reflected by um something um called an alternative enrollment protocols and for this reason we are also proposing to update uh the name of the whole draft to briskly ae alternative alternative enrollment protocols in brewski for the same reason we also would like to rename the repository on github so far reflecting the name as inc enroll and the plan is to go to a name just saying brewski ae basically next slide please just a quick recap what of what brewski ae is about the idea is that it is a variant of standard brewski where instead of the usual use for when doing the certificate enrollment step not to use est simple enroll but to use any other certificate enrollment protocol that supports self-contained request messages with such type of request messages we could get independence of the transport layer and therefore have much better flexibility when where to process certificate requests and this is reflected in this figure um so focusing on the orange frame box and this is the part where after initial voucher exchange the pledge would like to enroll a certificate to this end um it can optionally request further certificates that it may need during the enrollment or later it can optionally also ask for specifics certificate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "request attributes to include in the request and then the mandatory step is to actually request a certificate and this is done these three steps are done in the new protocol or whatever protocol you want to have instead of esd simple um enroll for example you could use cmp or cms or est fall cmc to this end and after the request arrives at the domain registrar um still the the main register could do the processing or part of the processing of the enrollment request and all everything remaining can be done by a different agent for example an ra that is somewhere in the back end of the overall architecture so we have some more flexibility um in the system uh design and structure where the ra functionality can be shared freely between the domain registrar of brewski itself and some optional external entity doing the rest of the ra functionality there any comments or questions on this uh on the overall scenario yeah just a intolerance here um so this and i think uh the prior one as well always makes me sad to see that these wonderful diagrams maybe just temporarily shown once in a working group meeting as what i think where they would really be great in the in the document so if you folks are interested would really be cool if we could try to see what the the current uh processes by which we can get at least that in the pdf mr richardson is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "against it in the in the pdf versions of the document oh that sucks well but i mean this this one actually might still be very very nice even in uh grayscale right so grayscale it is not black and white so i i stand with my opinion that it's it's a shame if if that work was lost uh as opposed to make it into the rfcs even in the pdf version so um if you're interested right ping me and uh we can we can talk with the rfc editors then if if for how the tool chain works thanks a lot for this comment what's up opinions yes this picture is very good to get the full picture what the ae is and how the procedure would be it's very helpful it would be a shame if we can't including that in a document and for my understanding that a new rfc editor shield here already have the technology to uh into such picture already we can do that so you mean to include it in the draft yes great we'll give that a try but we we we've never tried the tool chain on on how to do it right so let's mr rich in one smooth one all right [Laughter] by the way i owe this picture mostly to steven freeze so i just added uh the specifics of uh of highlighting the brisk the iep or ae portion of it yeah then we can move on to the next slide on the current uh the recent changes yes since the last version or which was referenced in the last iatf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "where we split the document from the brisket prime since then i have become the editor of the document and as mentioned we shift to the emphasis of the presentation not contents wise but presentation wise two words uh supporting alternative enrollment protocols and accordingly updated the title at least provisionally and today i would like to ask for your formal approval for this step yes as far as the name chain is concerned whenever you have the next revision available just change the name in the file name um put in what the prior name is so it's just during the data tracker upload then i if i'm not mistaken it'll ask for working group chair approval and then we're done with it thanks oh no i i saw a custom rest hand go ahead all right yeah apart from the this is a major shift of uh focus of the text um we moved around some sections uh towards appendix in order to make the document more readable and also shuffle around some other sections and also streamline the wording and the console i consolidated the terminology and etc etc so meanwhile i would say the document is in the pretty stable um status already uh where it should be uh pretty convenient to read and therefore yeah i think it's a good opportunity also to ask um any of you um who is interested to have a look at it and do an informal review on vray um would be very glad to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "receive for their comments on it next slide is yes what is going to be done next while internally reviewing the text we noticed that we have two parts that need some little further work of getting more details in which is describing in more detail the instantiation of the of this framework uh to using the lightweight cmp profiles or using the cmb protocol and there it turns out that we should even some give some more detail how to transfer further certificates during the enrollment process um whether to use the search request template um yeah message flow or rely on the regis the domain registrar to do any further completion of the certificate request we should also clarify whether we want to stick with doing a certificate confirmation within cmp in a classical way or use the implicit confirm while um i should have noticed anyway in brewski in the outer protocol there will be an enrollment status confirmation message at the end of the general brewski message exchange we also need to make up our minds whether we should specify the use of pkcs10 format within cmp which could be useful for legacy support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "apart from the cmp instantiation the plan was also to have an est with full cmc instantiation of risky ae um this should be provided by elliot but unfortunately he hasn't had time apparently to work on this so we would need to see how um if we can get some more details on this or i can just leave the esd section as it is which in a not very detailed fashion when i plan to do an next version of the dav document when these two items have been completed and as mentioned would be very nice to get some reviews and comments and we are also doing poc implementation currently and if anyone is interested to do an interoperability testing please let us know yeah that's basically all i would like to share with you are there comments or questions apparently not thank you thank you very michael much want to step up to the microphone again yeah it's uh 8366 if i find the slides and the richardson line and michael i noticed that if you if you if you let your phone go you have it before i i have a question uh sorry i should ask you this earlier"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "uh what happened to the to your working group after virtual dedication uh it hasn't been updated that's what happened okay so you are not give up it yet right no no it's just the relevance is um we can we could talk about this later okay and when we at the end of the open time okay if that's okay okay yeah that's fine because you know i just noticed that missed uh already last december right okay go ahead sorry for interrupting um okay so i'm gonna talk about 83 66 bits which we adopted um what was it december i guess in the end maybe it was january um and uh what was the initial motivation for this is that particularly coming from the alternate enrollment was that we realized that we wanted to extend this yang enumerated type called assertion and that's not possible to do that without revising the yang module and um so this isn't was motivated by this and of course we wouldn't like to repeat the effort again so um what do we do we basically the the solution is is that we take this particular item uh we make put it in a sub module um and which we import and then we arrange for ayanna to manage this module and we can create a registry around it and essentially what happens is that uh whenever someone comes along and follows the ayanna considerations to allocate this value"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "then the iana will in fact turn around and essentially edit the yang module and create a new yang module a new entry a new revision there with the new stuff there so um effectively what we've done is we've turned the iana people into yang editing robots which we can remote control and hopefully they won't you know take over the world or something like that um so my belief is that this has no effect on any bits on the wire that that everything looks the same at the end of the day um and if you know someone was actually generating code from yang modules this would be useful because then they would have the most up-to-date things so what do we do we turned it all into markdown uh since the rfc 8366 was first worked on it was in a git repository but that was long before martin thompson's make fall existed so we've added that a bunch of rules to process the yang file in the make file and to do all the right things and the working group adopted the document finally so what's next so um first of all we used uh what's it called uh the one before essex structure yang data model and that's apparently not sexy anymore um so for me oh i thought someone says that uh that's not sexy anymore now we should be using rfc 8791 which is this essex structure stuff i don't really understand the difference between the two um i think that it's just a different way a yang way of expressing things and i think that it will result also in no wire changes just we would now be expressing our yang module in the modern uh 2020 onwards"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "away um i would like someone else to you know follow breadcrumbs through and figure that out that would be really good review to do if you know yang or particularly if you're an expert in 8791 so that's a change of the text secondly we need to go through 8366 and see if there are optional things that we spoke about we wrote about that either need clarification at this point or uh we're just dumb ideas and we should just remove them okay the goal of this is could we publish his internet standard at the end of the day okay as opposed to proposed standard um and that's a question for our a.d rob over there he's not really paying attention to us probably friday afternoon anyway could we publish 83 66 bits as uh as internet standard um given that we are re-expressing it in a you know several different versions of of uh more modern versions of yang but not i hope i think changing any bits on the wire or invalidating in the interoperability testing that we now actually have a fair bit about uh effort not just in anima but also over in the net mod uh zero comp space so on that specific question i was paying attention on that specific question i think going to ps first for this document would be better i think going directly to internet standard might be um questionable in terms of how much stuff is changing i can have a look but i think it's a question of whether the changes are significant or not so i think i need to review that carefully but i could get back to that right so so just to to restate it we're really changing the yang the expression of the content but not any of the content itself so it could be that we introduce i agree with you it could be that we introduce"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "unintended bugs in the yang in how we express it but i think that's relatively unlikely but what you're suggesting is that we publish as ps and that a later isg could could redesignate it you know if we think we're okay that would be the safer way that would be the safer easier way yeah i said kentucky oh yeah kent hey as he finds the unmute button can you hear me we can now okay wonderful a difference between yang data and as a structure um yang data does not define a protocol accessible node the simplest way to make an analogy is yang data is like a grouping whereas asset structure is like a container okay okay and and will it change any of the content in the end the serialized json for instance uh the well the all the inner nodes of course are are rendered the same it's just the the outermost envelope container or you know that outermost node doesn't exist in yang data but it does exist in essence structure so uh where you know what it wherever yang data was instantiated before it was probably wrapped by some sort of container or envelope and the name of that envelope now needs to be the name of the essa structure and then you'll have the equivalent okay so if we can accomplish that then we will accomplish no bits in the wire change then yeah and what do you think about going to internet standard do you think that the the experience on over in that net uh comp it uh is uh mature enough to say to justify that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "[Laughter] i don't want to swim outside my lane but i've never heard of a draft like this to going to internet standards so quickly so okay all right so so you think we should just we should do it ps and maybe we'll get to we'll get it blessed later on yeah i think the the interesting question will be what uh the the ietf thinks about the standard level not with respect to how stuff works interoperable on the wire but also interpretable on the tooling side right because you're using using it completely because i guess that new new stuff you don't even have the tool chains which is why you want to have some more manual review as opposed to simply checking it in the tool chain well we don't have code generators that are going to actually process it but we do have have have uh we do know how the serialization works and all that other stuff so that that's i think okay um so i have a second question or the third question actually um so one of the things that we are doing in um well so jws voucher is one of the unique documents that doesn't extend 8366 at all um constrained voucher extends it um there's another document that extends it now i can't remember what it is there's two or three documents that have taken uh 8366 and extended it often in in orthogonal directions and you should actually be able to combine the extensions at the same time i don't know how to express that so the question is those documents now they're still extending 8366 and the sir the question is well should an 8366 bis should it go and now reach in and uh take those extensions and include it into the 83 66 bit document as you know additional sections or something like that to make it a little more you know inclusive or should it just continue on and do what it does and be only what it is and have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "extensions that happen there the extensions happen with the grouping that we created i don't know the answer to that question in particular um i don't know how to tell someone to use 8366 plus whatever constrained voucher comes up with plus say whatever delegated voucher comes up with because those are orthogonal extensions you should be able to combine them but i'm going to say i'm going to tell you here's three rfcs to implement and i don't know how to mix that yang if i was doing a code generator i wouldn't know how to to put that yang together um i don't know if that matters i don't know if it even like it may be just perfectly fine for someone to say here's three rfcs mix them all together you won't have any problem and that's it i think process wise will will stay i mean the smart money is on keeping it separate if i were thinking about you know trying to write a document that has all the ipv6 extension headers together and then you know things were retired later on what you do right so that would affect the everything together so by keeping things in separate documents it also means that we can change their status accordingly over time absolutely so so that's that's the point so i was trying to get the status but then there's also the technical side but you know what you know we do sometimes come along like like dhcp uh uh v6 bis right 8415 we actually pulled all the extensions into one document and and it made sense to do that at the time right now i'm just sort of asking well does that make any sense uh robleton is kent still in the queue i don't know but i'll i'll jump in anyway just one observation you also got the wonderful updates tag that is very vaguely defined so you could also update the other two extensions if there's anything required to explain how they worked with the updated version of 8366. 8366 bis could update these other extensions yeah yes documents just just to flag them okay that's a good point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "and i think the timing will be such that they'll actually be published beforehand anyway or maybe at the same time but anyway okay thank you that's all i have anyone else have any questions some people that's uh you guys are still in the queue kent did you have another thing to say yes regarding pulling things into 83 66 another consideration is that i would imagine the biz would obsolete the 8366 right um that's the typical thing that's done uh yet we have 8572 scpp which depends on 836 and would not be able to uh incorporate whatever orthogonal extensions you're referring to yeah so that could cause problems for 85.72 if that were to happen if it were to be obsoleted if yes well if suddenly there were yeah suddenly there was a new rfc that that uh replaced 83 c6 and included um these orthogonal extensions that 8572 could not take advantage of that implementations of 8572 might be left in a situation that be difficult for them so so not including extensions would make it easier for other other things that are depending on it i hear what you're saying i agree with you completely so that that completely completely uh you know settles for me any decision about whether we would incorporate anything else uh yeah i mean maybe it's also status check right i don't think we've always obsolated the prior version right is tls 1.2 obsolete i think that's a separate different kind of conversation i think you should ask is 85 is rfc 822 obsolete it's been replaced twice right but if we don't obsolete eight three six six but we just you know supersede seeded it's kind of maybe less"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "of a problem for the the existing documents like 8572 just you know playing correctly with the status no no i think it's okay if we obsolete it because the document because the new document has the same content and so it's perfectly fine for the the other documents to just say oh well we're just moving up to the new new one and that's fine i think that's as long as the content is the same right that's what that's what kent's point was that otherwise you'd have to say new document minus this other stuff right and then it's i think too complicated carson well to ask to answer the question tls 1.3 does absolute tls 1.2 thank you two all right thanks for looking anybody else i wield my i'm trying to get the next slide deck but i'm not sure what you're doing there well there's brewski cloud coming up next i guess so unless you want to designate somebody else oh all right i did look at the slides just earlier because i thought it was you that was going to be doing them um so um i think we did publish a new version since the last version um so just to remind you there's a section in brewski that says that devices may want to talk to the cloud directly instead of talking to a local registrar and is intentionally potentially does not specify that and this document does um so we started with a bunch of different use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "cases i think four of them uh we got rid of a couple of them and essentially there's two use cases one is that there's no local mechanism to find the registrar such as perhaps you are deploying a device such as maybe a sip phone um at someone's home but it needs to talk to the registrar which is at the office headquarters and the cloud could redirect it and it's literally done with an http redirect and we had a conversation about which one and the document says that and then that was the what was the first one so there's your 300 307 thing um and then the other case um is that the registrar does not speak brewski but does speak est in which case the cloud will return a voucher that points it directly to the uh correct uh and pins the correct registrar this is one of the places where we have an extension to 8366 now i remember that's orthogonal so that's a separate use case in that case the cloud acts as a partial registrar but it pins this this other device and then you go to that place and just do est with that so the document explains that part as well um we went through security considerations before the last itf um and uh i think they were reasonably well accepted uh but we're really ready for uh working group last call and you know reviews uh sector review um would be great um and uh maybe even some review from http people or something like that they could tell us if we got 307 right i think that's it yeah that's the last slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "any questions no okay great thank you right so i think uh like we did with the last document uh you you probably have the best starting suggestion for the sector review so work with me i'll i'll get those [Laughter] no no last time you you had some good suggestion who the favorite reviewers would be so please provide me the input so that we get the best possible review done okay using you're next with the autonomic mechanism for resource-based network services auto deployment can you hear me uh is my shamash namaste yep you're a little bit loud so if you uh tone down your level a little bit i think that would be good uh oh oh sorry sorry oh okay sorry it's okay now yeah it's it's still on the high end level but we'll survive uh okay kyle hear me today it's it's it's just very loud so maybe uh if you can i'm not sure what type of microphone you have just a little bit further away maybe oh sorry sorry no worries okay okay uh let's start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "uh let's start and uh this soap is about uh auto deployment mechanism for resource-based network okay all right first i will have a review about our draft and the portal of this draft is one two to establish a site of autonomic negotiation my mechanism to achieve the negotiation and the distribution of the network results in the domain network and that means it's a real negotiation with a service plant and decide how many how much resource service you can use in the uh domain network and we think the draft can slow the the target of the draft so first is we want to the resource-based network can get the resource autonomy and satisfies the truth requirements of the service and the next second is the mechanism of the supporting multiple runs of the thus enables the service plan to change the resource requirement according to the state of the network for example if if the network is contested under the service can reduce the quality of the results and the third uh the mechanism can ensure that results in the domain network can be used more if initially we think that a smart network should provide a different level of different levels of network results for different level of the service and this is our goal of the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "and this is a major change from the woman to seasons and in this slope i want to discuss an example with parameters and we think this may make our dresser more easy to become a relaxed and this is this page is about the auto deployment process and the way includes three precise discovery stage and the negotiation under something the asa will do after negotiation and and in the discovery part and within the resource manager as in the discovery method to find the service uh providing resource manager asa and the when the request results mandates i want to write results they will send a message to providing resource manager asap and in the negotiation part state and this uh this mechanism allowed multiple runs of negotiation and uh so two asa will decide uh decides uh how many how much resources are respect and the third requesting resource measure asa will decide at each round how much the results need to offer and the providing resource management will respond a lot to the results they can offer under that means so providing resource manager asa will consider the network state under the service information and decide how much resource can offer and after negotiation the two asa guides the result and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "the providing results microasyl will remove the iterable results from the resource part and we should emphasize that this graph is about negotiation how much resources uh resources can offer to the servers and it now to release the results hold by hope this is the objective password objective we decide we define the draft and i think the most important thing is about the objective value and nowadays we did we think they are include two part so one is about service service information and another is about the resource information so service information within uh the asa can uses to communicate who ask the results and the service level uh under the as far as the resource information is about how much resource they should offer and um i think they and this objective is naughty in jason and i think this is uh is easy to understand but i think this objective maybe [Music] maybe need to be discussed more and i think i will start a mail to discuss this question and i think this is a important thing we will do the next step this is an example about about how to use this negotiate and grasp all data and we added some parameters"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "and the in this page we see that the server initial pay a row of request resource manager asa and she will answer results to the providing resources and this this is a negotiation message and i was the first one so as i will ask the 10 10 megabit bits per second on the bandwidth so the x turns 0 10 under the 0 bandwidth and the tenants of value but i think but as far as providing resource mindset it receives a message and if the network is not very busy it will respond accept but if the if the network is the result is she will license page says it will respond to eight and the next round is r is the results it is request results major ace and she will decide the eight if if the eight is eight is enough and i think uh says the pinterest in its sense eight megabit has is enough so she will send us a message under the providing resource manager will accept and this is the example of negotiation process and this is a new step uh when we add in the draft and is it about how if the example of the changing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "resource requirement and the multi-car we can see in the draft and uh for next step we will uh have a more discuss about our uh draft and i hope uh some hope other people can help us understand thank you any questions here i don't see anybody online so yeah i'll i'll review the document and provide feedback on the list um i think it would be great to so so the slides already show a little bit more details on the example um use case here than the draft itself that's great um i think yes what would be good to to to to bring this down to a fully explicit example use case and i'm not sure what what type of you know proof of concept code you have but i think such a proof of concept code that would actually you know result in the reservation of of of a resource would help a lot so for example you're showing the step-by-step process to talk with the nodes along the path but how do you know the path for a particular service instance that you want to do i think that's not being answered and then of course um you know picking some way to i guess actually reserve guarantee the bandwidth that that that should also be given as an example and um yeah i i guess that the example you're showing would be some form of um alternative to something that in the past rsvp has done and i guess that discussion of how this mechanism would be better in comparison to to such prior examples"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "that would also help to distinguish the proposal okay okay sure uh animal health question okay okay then i think you're up again for the next slot the yes the nice stuff yes nice yeah so now this is the first draft here that we're discussing that is not working group adopted but individual ground so far yeah okay i i will start about this draft under this draft is about autonomic ip address to access control group mapping and i first i will reveal the basic idea of the draft and this is a picture of an example of campus network and the in this network it improves exercise note and the acer we defined in the draft and here the aap represents the absence of a dictation point asa and pp response is our poli policies enforcement point and this strat draft wants to slow the question about how to autonomic configure the policy for user in the network and we use a group basic policy to deal with it and in the in our draft as a group means a number of items connecting to the network starter share share common network policy uh for example if uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "one user adapts uh uh the network but and if they change the exercise point say maybe that is a different ip but we think that the user wants to get the same network servers so that our driver want to uh slow this this price this project and this is our chain from the last version and in our slab we will do the uh example about how this mechanism work and i think this will make others know more about our draft this page will show the gra the diff grasp what we define in the draft and it includes aap objective under the pp objective and this is our def uh defined and this page is about an example about how aap does ip address and group id might be information for a house for a host and it weighs in is its prior knowledge for animal objective and we must emphasize that this is only just an example and it is not built standard there are many weapons like the aap threats this mapping information and this is our example and in the example uh the hosts a uh uh joins uh network and say aap use a travel a server to add some mic to group id mic information uh first as a figure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "shows that a access network under it exercise node is aap and the host a will send its mic address to the domain network in order to write certification and some other information so the ap uses my address to request group to request group id to triple a server and the aaa server will reply the request with mac a is okay under the group is file so the ap will store this information in their local memory and for next step after passing the synchronous after passing the scientification so jose can use a dhcp process to write their ip address and so that the aap can write the micro information about ipa to mitre 8 and eventually the ap uses two information and the guys a is um is to group five so this is an example about how aap does the group id information and this is a this page is about uh how the how the aap pushing my information to peps and uh we also include the discovery stage and the negotiation stage and the isis picture show and first the ap will just send a discovery message to pvp and write the pp node and after that the lap will send the request negotiation message to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "of the negotiation message include ipa and group id file to the pep and the pp will steal this information and they will use this imping table to enforce the policy and if the pep receives this message they will start some tape mapping table in their local memory and they will respond to negotiation and the message this is uh this picture is about how the pp uses ip2 group information to enforce to enforce the policy and as an example the user a user whose ip address is ipa want to send send a package to the data database machine whose ip address is ipb like the orange line in the pincher we say that the ipa is a group file under the ipb is group 10 but we know that the policy size that ip file to ip group id file to group ip 10 is is b is drop and is forbidden so the pp will uh will do something to enforce the policy and uh and in this in this mechanism the pp will drive the data package and find the source ip uh ipa under to the target ips ipb understand they use their uh information sorted information and that's a ipp a is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "a good file under the ipb is a group 10 under the undersea it also found the policy 510 drop that means the pipe should drop the heighthead so the pad so the pp will drop the package and enforce um policy and this is the house pp enforcer policy and if the ipa changes point on the guys new ip ipl device is ipc but we know that the ipc is also in the proof file so the pp also can find that ipc to ipb is also forbidden so it will also drop the package and this is how the pp uses uh information to manage the night work and this is uh all about our draft and so also saying this draft is being reliably complete so we want to send this paper this graph is ready for adoption thank you any questions [Music] we have seen that the growing demand and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "the parliament for group based policy in the network this this idea is very attractive feature for animal asa my opinion perhaps this can work for the security scenario and kind of in the use case for that uh your straightforward scenario security uh security uh sorry i have some from some uh some some ip is not allowed to excel some uh node and in this mechanism they can't control this success in my opinion [Music] yes i i know this question this question i think we will add in the filter if the ip is not fun okay thank you go ahead you though actually i answered a little bit more regarding jungkook's question about the security so uh at one of the courses yeah i think in it is uh in broad scope we can say that it is also for security purpose um but i guess most likely will consider is like for the policy uh policy enforcement so uh so it depending on how you categorize this so in broad scope yeah it is security in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "narrow scope it is more considered as the policy side that's that's what i'm trying to say thank you i do have some questions clarification questions could you go back to [Music] slides at this page or this yeah here yeah here i get confused by this example because uh in this figure you actually only show the procedure between the host and the a server between the host host and the dhcp server which we can reuse the existing authentication protocols all the existing dhc protocols if that's the case so why anyone yeah yeah my next question is seminar uh could you go next page um yeah here you give an example of negotiation but from the procedure you have on this figure it's the normal request and response model where is the negotiation i cannot see how she can help you request something with certain group id and receive something or some allergy allocation information bike that's a request and a response it seems misused for negotiation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:06",
    "text": "yes i i know what you'll say go ahead yeah yeah that's that's a good question so so maybe we can take a look at the previous page first yeah that's regarding so as eugene just now showed this is just an example so basically if the whole system deployed the animal we are thinking that would be one of the essential components for the whole animal deployment here this is just to just to show the readers that even even some part is not animalized this can be standard long piece for the work which can be a standalone piece for the anima asa so that's why that's also why the reason uh using put here as this is not going to be standardized so just to show there are different possibilities how to use it so that's okay that's fine but i would like to say another update example which shows you know what would be uh you know unified uh what would a unicode uh value for use the animal or grass uh particles right yeah yeah yeah yeah that's valid i think we can add a at the as a description or paragraph to the existing uh document to have a to have an introduction on on this what you suggested okay and yeah for the next one yeah you're right we are using the negotiation so it can be treated as a single uh single with a request and reply mode of the negotiation so basically um of course"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "this is basically like uh uh the pep stop pep point receive this uh negotiation negotiation request of course here we are we our assumption is have just uh just approves such negotiation this mapping unconditionally but in the real deployment of course because the paper is a policy enforcement point it can use some um pre-defined policy it can reject this negotiation so it's still a quite a common sense for the animal uh defined request and negotiation and negotiation and the policy but here for the illustration purpose we just assume everything is okay so the pep accepted this so hope this reply your your question um yes and no yes you explain why you use this figure or this example but that's much better if you can you know show up better few uh example which expressed how the education may happen that would oh yeah yeah so uh because this one actually was added to the latest version which also suggested by tolus and i think by brian because the original version was too abstract currently we are using this flowchart to give a more solid example so i think a one of the way to deal with it we can try to add something uh say that if there is that if the pep doesn't allow this then actually the negotiation ad sorry negotiate negotiation and message um it's not a hundred percent accept case it can be something like the deny so we add this example to show that it is uh there are different consequences"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "the different results for negotiation i think that uh yeah so maybe from my side a comment so what what this seems to be in the direction of is something similar to you know what we've been doing for well maybe now 30 years um triple aaa between you know policy decision point and policy enforcement points with protocols like tacacs radius diameter and so that comparison right in terms of what can those solutions not do that we can do with the uh with with this enema approach um i think would be helpful but that of course is a lot of work trying to figure out what you can actually do with uh what we have been built up over 30 years with you know radio's diameter tacax so that's that's uh not free to wrap up to but i think the problem is that if you don't do it at some point in time the people who do know those technologies will come for review and say well we can do everything that you're trying to do new here already with the old stuff maybe it's a little bit more crappy which certainly everybody agrees to is most of the stuff that's 30 years old but as long as it it can be done the you know desire to do something new is very often much uh reduced so so that's i think one of the challenges and i think what what what is helpful with understanding that old stuff is you know trying to find the most easy places where the old stuff cannot do it right um so for example what you're showing here where you're pushing stuff out to multiple points um that that is getting in the direction where the typical um aaa solutions do not work well because they're typically really based on request reply based on you know a new device showing up at some place that's where you know the request reply for the authentication authorization is triggered yeah let's not to carry on too long we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "can take it to the list but that was the general idea thanks [Music] yeah thanks any more questions okay so i think it's me then let me bring up the slides all right last slot this is about two drafts that i had presented um a couple of times in the past already and then never found the time to prioritize them on my own top of the line due to the the other animal work so i wanted to get back to that with a couple of the co-authors we now have on these two documents and revive this and also then ask for working group adoption the documents are quite stable from the content and functionality that we're asking for obviously not from the text quality details um and uh ease of read so please read the documents but hopefully this the refresher here will also help to to get the gist of what it's about um so we've got the autonomic networks that we want right brewski is autonomic we hope zero touch except you know power and ethernet cables maybe but what if anything goes wrong how about the troubleshooting side right and how about the acp then which supposedly is booted automatically after brewski um so the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "first and most simple use case i would like to finish up is really to get something that we described in rfc 8366 which is the you know acp for the um autonomous network that is controlled you know in a traditional form from an operator centrally or with or without sdn controller to get that working reliably with brewski and acp and with the experience from the pre-standard acp implementations that i worked on we really need a few infrastructure services for this to run to successfully bring up brewski and the acp for troubleshooting and then of course also to securely access devices across the acp from the knock by an operator through the cli or an sdn controller so that's kind of uh was the starting point for what i wanted to achieve which kind of still the most important use case but as we'll see what we're proposing to uh to standardize will support a lot more so the core a i infrastructure services right so the most important stuff from the operational experience with free standard is really syslog that automatically runs and can you know signal you know any type of thing that for example happens from the brewski proxy back to the registrar or a syslog server in some other place so that we actually know when something goes wrong but equally when something is working that the registrar for example uses this lock to to notify when a new device is being enrolled and that then the next steps can be taken in in some automated workflow so syslog is the the the first service right that that all the acp nodes um can start syslogging what they're doing in the um a infrastructure brewski proxy and and whatever else the components are clock synchronization uh to some selected ntp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "service across the acp um we need good times even just for basic crypto and certificate validation we did a lot of jumping around hoops to try to minimize dependency against clocking in brewski but of course life is a lot easier if you do have good um synchronized time even if it's just you know tracing of event propagation just you know this message came here that message came there oh there were five milliseconds apart which was first which was second very easy to do if you have ntp otherwise you're kind of very much lost um and then um the remote access to the nodes via the acp um that would really be ssh through the acp but these days it's really very convoluted and not good enough just to rely on ssh authentication through the acp certificates so it's a lot easier if you have the standard authentication and authorization of access into ssh for controllers for operators when you can rely on the standard authorization and authentication tools chain through radius tacx or diameter radios being the foremost standard of the ietf in that space so you need to be able to discover in the acp your radio server across the acp and then simply whenever somebody logs in through ssh whether it's a controller using netcon across ssh or an operator using cli that the standard authentication authorization in terms of here are the commands that can be done that all that existing stuff is simply automated across the acp including that radius authentication and then of course there is the alternative that we got from netconf recently ken's work in the working group the call home where you discover a netcon server and you are after you're being enrolled by brewski"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "and have an acp you would discover hey there is a net called home server let me connect to that so that the rest of the configuration happens through netcon for example finally what i think among the you know these core a infrastructure services would be to auto enable dns across the acp simply just you know the poor operator using the cli could then much easier get rid of having to look at ipv6 addresses by simply you know also having dns set up that it has a good dns names for all the operational ipv6 addresses because so far the operators are really well i can't remember these long addresses at least all right and that brings us really to the draft anima services dns auto config which really is just trying to achieve exactly what the prior slide said right so the operator sets up servers in the knock those servers need to support ipv6 syslog ntp dns radius diameter netconf whatever subset of those the operator fields he wants to have automated running in the ani connects those servers to the ani um typically through an acp connect interface to the noc that's specified in the acp rfc um of course nothing yet happens then the operator enables the service announcements for the acp right so those could simply be automatically by the servers themselves using dns sd over mdns or the service announcements are a feature on that edge router the acp connect when those existing servers don't support dns sd right so now all the acp nodes start getting through the acp um the service announcements um and they automatically start their local agents the ntp agent dns radius so basically uh the asas for exactly those infrastructure services"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "and yeah as i said from the operational experience that is most important really after you're connecting and enrolling new devices into the ani and again nothing of this will run unless the operator explicitly you know in the knock enables it right so that there is no additional magic that happens without the you know intent of the operator and that is then very easily done on the servers or on the edge router so now how do we announce those services across the acp well we have and we want to use grasp across the acp but we do not want to reinvent the wheel when there already is a wheel and that will exist and that is really you know the service definitions that we have in dns sd um that has pretty much most of what we need it has the services the services name with the wonderful iana registries and then a bunch of interesting parameters service instance names priority weight tax parameters none of this is actually specific to dns dns is just the transport um and yeah i just got some information on are going to add about the history of this this actually originated uh way before ip and apple's local talk as service discovery and binding so in the same way we're just trying to decouple this now from the dns binding so that we can use it across graphs where actually it will hopefully become a lot easier um and this is here um actually how it would look like in grasp so this is the draft uh eckerd anima grasp dns ssd in dns the data for a single service instance is split across four or more resource records so the quad a is to get the address resolution the cname pointer stuart go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "i just want to briefly say uh i support this direction uh your summary is exactly right the key concept here is the iana registry rfc 6335 i think if that's right by memory uh and you're absolutely right the encoding of that into dns records is useful in certain contexts uh i can give you examples of other contexts that are not widely used outside of apple but they are examples of what's been done over bluetooth the same namespace of service types is used to describe ip services but over bluetooth discovery frames which are not dns formatted and it's also used in peer-to-peer wi-fi again encoded and i don't know the details but some kind of wi-fi public action frame that's also not using dns format messages so we do have a precedent the key thing is not to invent a new registry of service types that would be really reinventing will for no reason not only the the service types but also the parameters that we have right priority weight so that the whole management of you have multiple service instances how you think about redundancy selection that that is as consistent as we can get it so the the only thing that i figured out we can add in the case of grasp is that we have a notion of distance to the server because we hop by hop forwarded which we kind of always fail to do correctly in multi-hop mdns that's been the pain but so we've got the distance as one added you know criteria we can use which may not be applicable to all environments but which would then only be for the acp case right so in in dns it's split up across a bunch of different resource records and that also means you have multiple back and forth hubs you need to go through before you have all the information if you haven't cached it in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "before and then grasp it's really very simple because because we can just for the announcement of flooding service information put everything into a single grasp objective and that's what i've shown you on the right hand side and if you look at the words here you'll find all the same things that you'll find scattered around the mdns solution like the instance um the service priority weight and then the additional extension and extensive text things kv pairs so that's all being mapped and then only the distance would be a new one that we can't really map back to um mdns so then the key part of reusing the service registry so for the objective names we have our own registry so what i'm proposing here is a little bit of a hacky thing which is that um if an objective has a grasp name of serv dot name then the name after that has to be a name that was registered exactly in that existing dns sd service registry right and that basically then gives us exactly the fact that when you're using such a name you must use this encoding format to announce it in graph so that it stays in its definition also compatible with a dns sd as far as all the behavior and the parameters are concerned hold on a second michael do you have a question you'll raise your hand like richardson [Music] um it's not really a clarifying question michael richardson at the mic um i did like um carlos that you talked about dns over the acp and names and since we're using an ula the reverse map the only way to get the answers from the reverse map is to use the local recursive dns server because if you use a public one of course you won't get anything useful um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "and so that's really important as to to in your you know in your syslogs when you're receiving them from other things you'd like to put the name of the actual machine not its current you know the ip address that currently happen to use to talk to you so we actually need to think maybe whether or not we want to do reverse map updates using dns update using some sig zero type key which of course we would have to discover with grasp to find out which server to update to uh or whether or not we want to actually do uh reverse map updates using grasp yeah okay so that might be an interesting asa that we might just find that might be it might be easier most people have a lot of difficulty getting dns updates to work um outside of microsoft active directory um and there's some subtle cryptographic reasons why it's hard and needs to be that way but uh we could we we should probably think about whether or not what we want to do and have an opinion on it seems like a good service that the acp ought to do which is forward and reverse naming for the acp things in particular when you reach out and want to ssh to some enterprise equipment across the planet it might be actually useful if we had a opinion we are opinionated as the about how you named the uh that piece of equipment such that you want to go through the acp versus you name it such that you know you'll just go over your public network because there's reasons to do both and sometimes you actually want to check if the public network is working and sometimes you actually want to check if actually the machine is up in the in and going through the acp is a better choice because that is more likely to be working so that's actually other side of thing on the naming side we may actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "want to have some opinions that say you know this is a really good way to do it maybe this is you won't want to do it everywhere but at least we would then be creating a uh you know a convention about that and we could argue a lot about the details but i think that would be really useful to do that i think that's something that um this document could do i i fully agree with the intention i think you brought it up already once so i don't think it belongs into either of these two documents okay it would be a separate document just because this is really just services well no no but the cert but some of the new services that we actually might want to say that need to exist is is this kind of stuff and then we would have to point to something else that actually implemented them that's what i'm trying to say meaning it's like don't don't bring up an acp and not turn on these services that would be silly right but i think you're going one step further right so i mean i'm just trying to discover the services there and yeah i i i'll have to think more about what i think is the good logical separation line between different pieces of work so that each of them can best be reused without creating unnecessary dependencies yeah thank you all right so how do we operationalize the whole thing so ideally if we think about you know we write asa so whatever it is we introduce an application api through which service announcement and discoveries can be made and i'm thinking about whether we can have just a very simple you know announce discover abstract api specification in the draft and then the api library can actually select whether to use grasp or dns as an implementation choice maybe by automatically discovering the context well i do have an acp let me use graph otherwise use let me use dns on the acp router it's easy to announce a simple"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "sorry to configure a simple announcer for the services if you do have legacy existing services that can't do dns sd otherwise it would be a grass dns sd to mdns gateway brian carpenter had already played around a little bit and started to do that not sure how far he had gotten on the mdns side there and then as i started to allude to earlier this objective format with all these parameters in its standardized fashion must be used when you use the serve.name and you must then use that as a registered name in the service registry and this must be used when you want to have a service not only visible in grass but where you want it possibly across a different type of transports so i think brian gave a good counter example brian gave an example of an objective that was just meant to give service parameters that are specifically to grasp itself for those type of things it wouldn't be necessary or beneficial to to use the serve.name thing because it's specific to the grass protocol all right so summary proposal is for the two bra two drafts which are serving very much combined goals but independent of each other the first one is the encoding in grasp of service specif service specifications that are compatible with the dns sd service specifications including that definition of the binding between the grasp objective registry and the service registry by coming up with the surf.name and the second one being the services dns auto config which is really ultimately a specification of a few basic asas for the a i itself to operate autonomously come up up to the point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "where you can remotely manage it from an sdn controller so it's an asa to start syslog ntp sshd netconf call home dns resolver and radius authentication client right so a bunch of the most core asa we can think of and that is using for its own auto configuration those um dns sd compatible grasp service discoveries so that's it really um really would like to see adoption call for these two drafts um from to the working group and yeah please read the drafts comment on them and then chime in when we have such an adoption call hi teres we're two minutes over that is a big no-no here in the ietf we're so sorry you must allow me to to say something because i would be the chair to launch the docking code if right lead it yeah um without my any mature head i suppose this works that's very useful work and i think that would benefit the autonomic network in total but put my work group chair hat on i have two small uh concerns here one is you know apart from the presentation you're giving in the meetings i would like to see more discussing in many lists right you'll maybe ask somebody uh to review the uh to draft and publish his comments in the mailing list right second i'm slightly worried you are overloaded a lot you should probably do some documents sheffield first [Laughter] joking um yeah but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:02",
    "text": "but yeah i i would like you to get guaranteed for enough energy on this uh if we you know uh gone to doctors to draft right yeah let's take that on the main list okay right any uh do you want to do the closing remarks for the for for the working meeting fine we have already over time and we have very good meeting this week thanks all for your time and hopefully see you next meeting on site or remote thanks thank you all right um [Music] thank you for all your work likewise um um"
  }
]
