[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "foreign [Music] we should get started um all right uh welcome everyone to Tigress working group Intro meeting my name is prachi Jin and leave unfortunately looks like couldn't make it today so we'll go back and check uh with him but um here's the note well please note the note well well as they say in ITF land for remote participants uh please try to use your headset if you're not speaking you're not cheering keep your video and audio off and then for the agenda today um I'm gonna hand it over to the authors right after this and they're going to go through the draft updates they've made I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "know there have been a lot of uh chat going on on the mailing list so we'll try to clarify some of that today and we'll go from there uh so I'll let um and if you are willing to help me take minutes it's a 10 crew today I understand so if anybody is willing to help me out with notes please do I share the link to the notepad in the chat with that um Casey do you want to get started or is Dimitri or Brad okay all right so I'll give it to you I'll go ahead and share [Music] your slides great thank you and I'll pass you the control as well awesome perfect okay so thank you all so much for joining um definitely as prachi said we've been getting a lot more discussion over our email thread so we really wanted to just do a quick interim meeting before the next iitf to kind of drill down on some of these pieces have been discussed so let's see sorry oh okay okay so here is our agenda so we're just going to do a quick review of what we've been working on since the last iitf meeting um talk about the high level of updates of a requirements document the update store threat model document and then a quick review of some of these new documents we've created um I think our goal is to spend the majority of the time really on those requirements and threat model documents that we had the most commentary on in previous meetings um and kind of nail down anything that might be controversial and hopefully hopefully maybe we can do a vote for adoption for those two documents nothing else um all right with that I'll just start diving in um at a high level the work we've done since itf115 um was mainly addressing feedback on requirements and the threat model documents um in addition we worked on some one pages that were about alternate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "suggested approaches for how we could solve Tigress so the point of those particular documents was not to say we need to like choose one of these exact directions but more of a thought experiment to understand you know could these alternate solutions that were suggested or existing solutions kind of match our requirements so for us that was really really helpful and we'll talk about that more at the end okay so high level update to the requirements um we got a lot of feedback basically about making them more generic and taking out pieces that were you know not considered to be part of an iotf requirements document so things like user interface related requirements were all taken out um and we also made them significantly more generic um and added an example diagram for some additional context for what we were trying to solve so that was the high level and now we'll focus on talking through like individual requirements um I think first we talked through some hopefully on controversial ones um and I was I was hoping to spend some of this time kind of like showing the slide letting you all read and then maybe getting feedback um so certainly feel free if you want to start addressing comments um so I'll just give everyone um a couple of minutes just to take a look at this slide and just read through and if anyone has comments on these particulars again we think these ones are uncontroversial so I wasn't anticipating too much talk but certainly feel free to um raise your hand um and I'll also let uh Dimitri and Brad take ownership of this section they worked really hard on the requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "so I see Eric president Eric yeah so I think I agree with these but um I guess I'm a little like like uh noticing number one um in that how would one not meet that requirement and I guess was hiding I'm hiding under that but a little bit so um oh I'll take the blame for that one uh that that was in the original document um and I think we got some feedback that it was self-evident um because everything uh we do at ietf is cross-platform um but uh I guess my view is uh that that doesn't hurt to have it in there just in case uh to abuse anyone of any uh uh thoughts counter to that okay yeah I guess I guess sorry go ahead sorry go ahead well I guess what I wonder is there a stronger version of that requirement um in particular um you know um we were some conversation during both meetings and offline about like um about about situations in which you require that the the device is indicated TPM in order to be able to participate in this protocol right and so um uh and so I guess like you know like again I guess like there's one thing that they do a platforms there's no say any platform and I guess like you know like like I guess I guess I'd be more comfortable frankly as I said is this if they said like you know across any platform not different platforms um um because that's why I think that's the sort of one thing they think Warriors hiding behind this that that's that's really uh solid feedback we should probably open an issue and discuss what the core requirement uh like Hardware requirements or feature requirements in order to be able to support this are um and I actually can I can uh foresee uh language saying that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "some credentials require uh a te or SE or TPM or some Hardware of that sort um and for that the credentials having the requirement but the transport itself probably does not need that I'll agree with that uh we probably need to clean uh the requirement documents again moving on non-essential um aspects but for this particular meeting we wanted since we've received a lot of questions previously we just wanted to provide more information and I'm totally open to remove it again any other comments on the hopefully controversial okay I'm going to move on to the next one obviously anyone that has thoughts we can always go back but we'll just start moving on for the time this one um the and the clarification we're trying to get at is the goal of this working group is to define a protocol that works for sharing um or one device for another device um it doesn't include the protocol supporting um comparing from one to many um but it's not part of the chloroplasting just about that um of course that is open to the discussion because folks feel strongly otherwise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:08",
    "text": "go ahead Eric um um I think I guess I think I agree that Define I think I think the commentary I agree with I think that it's kind of a lesser about I guess I think the word limiting is I think the word I'm depending on is are we required to mechanism documentary and so what was limiting me and what is it just pushed shot me you've turned me into meeting other people what is that like but it's just like people like um I think you can help address that oh sorry oh good kissy I thought yeah maybe it's just me no no I I was um I was having a little bit of trouble hearing you as well Eric but I think I understand your point I think um their piece that you were discussing and I don't think we have a solution to this is when like if you were trying to share to one person if they continue to share it down a loop I don't think um from all the solutions we've kind of discussed I don't I don't think we've generally talked about too much of that um like how how would you be able to prevent that and um you know we've also talked about that as like friendly fraud like should we actually even try to prevent that um the piece that I was trying to change this requirement to be is basically saying like if you have a use case where you what you're sharing is a like a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "one-time token using the Tigress transfer protocol if that if that only works like one time I was hoping that whatever solution we come up with allows you to you know not like you know read once for example um if even if the transfer solution allows for a group um share I just wanted to make sure for use cases that you know that token is only valid once that we could make sure that you know for example like the mailbox is gone or something like that whatever the solution is um so yeah that's what I was thinking more like whatever you're transferring if if the material that's being transferred only works once versus the material transfer can work for a group I just want to make sure that we could account for both use cases with the transfer mechanism let me know if that helps yeah I think some I I'm a lower luck I mean it seems like a fine a fine objective of a protocol um but I'm really really wanting to think about imposing that on the um on the on the relay server if there was one because now you get into questions about what happens the data is lost and in transmission or you know two-phase commit or two generals um you know get in the question with the end end argument so I guess I guess it seems like if the protocol is supposed to enforce that like I think that's plausible um but I think if the um if we spit the the intermediary to enforce that assumes concerning as a design requirement so um so maybe there's some way to generalize that um but you know um I think you know again I think and it's also I think maybe a question of like is that is that is that is is this the right place to locate it as opposed to in in the in in the sort of protocols that we are carrying but again I don't think I don't think it's necessarily a problem with just trying to like I just don't want to like composer like I don't want to impose requirements around watchful reading um that we get to it go ahead oh yeah okay so I was just gonna say that's a really good point and I think I've been thinking about it um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "as a requirement but in a sense it's just an additional security item or like an additional way for you know say for our use case we only have these like single shared share or person-to-person sharing um in a sense to your point the intermediary server helping enforce that is kind of like an additional piece but it shouldn't be its core responsibility and really like the end should be the one enforcing that so I think I think you're totally right this could be completely removed um just to add to that we were trying to build our requirements through a simple use case where we send credentials from one device to another uh since the groups are in wheel certainly add complexity and we just don't want to address it yet so we want to use this as a stepping stone for possible future extensions if it makes sense it's like I guess like I don't want to like you know I know I know I'm like I should say like I don't think you know attraction you kind of drilled off at the end and Eric is really hot to hear you right now we all are having trouble"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "we can probably continue offline through emails um move on with the slides yeah can I just ask uh you're on this so we can take a discussion there so this is next One requirement privacy advancement that we um this was the requirement in the submitted uh version um but the editor's copy updated I think actually Dimitri cutter new version last night as well but very Advanced you see what the actual text is today I think the next two slides contain the difference with the original um requirement statement yeah so uh we we decided to break it down to three uh portions three statements um first about prevent and correlating users exchanges or creating social graph and then Integrity server not being an Arbiter of identity and finally uh the user identification will be collected and we are kind of not certain like we wanted to remove that requirements if the first two objectives uh can be reached without the Third but is that correct I think the key thing here is that the protocol itself can't do anything um about the uh uh um cluster practices of the participants you can only collect what um or it can only prevent information being being transmitted so um that was uh the purpose of that edit to remove the non-collection"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "um requirement and rely on the fact that uh the data is that's being shared with the participants um by the protocol uh it doesn't allow for coalition all right um I guess we can move on standard trust um again back to uh the previous uh requirements there should be a certain level of trust between the device mortgage and a team the answer and the integrated server is the solution includes intermediate server and that's important for a number of reasons which we discussed in the past and I see Eric wants to share his opinion oh I know there was a discussion through memories yeah and I mean I think I guess I never found any of the um and so um like um I guess I'm sort of like I mean maybe even up here but like um you know I'm not I'm not sure why um you know there are lots of stuff in this book report like a lot of data moving around in the world um at very high cost um and you know um so I guess I'm like I guess I I even there's a very low rate um and I think it's a good standing thing you know you know like uh um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:15",
    "text": "again I I'm not sure whether I understood the question here but uh we certainly can discuss it either over mailing group or in the chat um it's unlike the bulk of the question was around do we does the center really need to trust the relay server and vice versa and then some of the things like the in good standing what does that really mean how's that enforceable I think yeah it comes down to is this is this really a requirement um I think the underlying question whether we trust the content originated on the device or not because like the elite server scenes we do not enforce a requirement about strong authentication we don't know who's actually sending the data who's actually creating shares right well what is the um what is that trust buying you is that is the the key bit what are you trying I mean I mean like when this was first presented right the sort of up the sort of the model that I heard described was that I'm going to SMS some link to somebody or iMessage it or whatever right and then they're going to click on it and this back and forth is going to happen right and so like the relevant trust relationship is that the user like like the person who sent them the message in the first place it's none of this stuff about the relay server which these are not really stupid at all and so who who's being protected by by this like um by this requirement um and I just don't think that is right um and like in particular like you know um I mean so I mean I mean I I mean I I assume the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "way this works is that this link has some decoration on it that like says now engage like apple wallet and apple wallet pulls it up and does some like nonsense right and like that's the part that's where the production comes from not like the release um and to Flip Flip it around to talk about the relay server trust in the in the in the user instructions the relay Surfer like that's what the encryption is for um um so um so I guess like this I just like you know I'm much happier there is over like a completely untrusted Party part of the system for the purpose of our security analysis right um it's a hard task so if the strong authentications out of the other feature right how do we establish the fact that the the URL that I received from someone is a like reliable URL and I'm not being able uh a target for a fusion attack and the only way here if not using strong Authentication such as uh the one like with um TLS protocols let's say clients like authentication Etc or any other forms of strong authentication would be a certain level of trust established between all the actors and so may I yeah oh sorry uh may I suggest we remove this requirement um and articulate any threats that you are trying to mitigate with it in the the threat model and think through the possible mitigations for that and if in the end of going through that process if they only mitigation we come up with is some sort of trust relationship then the requirement can go back in but um I think there's at this point significant doubt as to whether this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "requirement is a core requirement the goal of this requirement is a relay server protection not uh user protection just saying that the relay server needs to have some way to trust the sending device uh and it's not really trust but just know that they're sending device is allowed to create mailbox it's really to prevent a bad actor from just uh so it's anti-abuse protection for the Relay server yeah I think there's a lot of different ways to scan that particular cat so that's why I was suggesting let's let's move that into the threat model um but this itself doesn't sound like a core requirement at this point I agree okay we were fine for me any other well now that we've dropped this anyone want to argue the other way and if not then I think we can move on yeah I was just going to say in the interest of time I was going to move to the next one and I I agree with everything that you all are discussing um you could probably shortcut this and say the same thing on this one yeah all right Alex one do we want to explain this sure um this is basically just requirement that multiple round trips are required that the center and receiver are able to uh communicate quickly and efficiently via those round trips um the goal of this is there's some way that uh devices can know that there are new messages or you know web hooks or something so they don't have to pull the intermediary if there is one so this seems like a reasonable requirement but I think it maybe that's the thing that has to get pulled in here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "um um because I think like um I mean I think maybe like I was sort of typing that they've seen vague and so I think like exactly the point you're making about how it has to be notification mechanism like that seems like that seems like something that we ought to be pulled in here if this is a requirement um are you suggesting like we mentioned notifications or web hooks in this I I think something like that I mean I guess I guess what I would say is like you know I mean it's like what's what's underlying beef with polling I guess it's it's like is it timeliness is it like is it is it radio bandwidth is it like I I assume I mean I think I think those are all like valid reasons but I guess I'm just trying to figure out like what is the like like if you I mean I think this is a great requirement but like when someone comes and says okay congratulations not just poll what are you gonna say right and you know um and so I think maybe like if we're truck I think I guess either of this is like kind of unenforceable and like I don't care or it's like or it needs to be tightened so they're actually telling something useful and I don't think every requirement for the system has to be in this in this document but I think if you think this is important then we can find a way to say it like actually we're going to refer reflection agreement now that we're gonna do something later right I wonder if we could say uh maybe just explicitly call out that we don't want to do polling as a solution uh you know for battery and Network reasons and then if we like if the end solution needs something like sockets or HEB keep alive uh then we wouldn't need notifications and web hooks we could because it would just be built into the protocol perhaps rather than a requirement this can be framed as a consideration let me create a new um section which might just have this as a as its own element of considerations as we move along"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "so there's no more questions we can move on I guess okay so that's invitation um so we want to anticipate some kind of gratification some kind of preview so that they've seen the user could understand what they are about to accept and it doesn't really preclude any particular implementation if I receive an SMS I should be able to somehow see what's on I want to add to my wallet I don't think this is necessarily around a preview but more around what is sent over something like SMS or email needs to be like a self-contained token like a URL or a file that can then be used to initiate the transfer I think it's kind of been assumed that something like that would be needed but uh not specified as a requirement or assumption yeah I mean I mean is it is there a requirement here that um yeah I assume the requirement here which actually this had to somehow like be able to kick off an app on a device right um um and so um you know I mean obvious you can say like a URL for any communication Channel and you can click on that URL right but I mean and this may be like this may be like this is out of the sort of like the usual ietf Lane but like you know um let me give you a hypothetical suppose that it was just a URL and it always went to like a regular web server and the web server fed back like you know uh something in the mind content type and that was the indicator that kicked off the you know um Apple wallet or whatever is that an acceptable outcome if it's not acceptable outcome then um you know then what is a sensible outcome I guess like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "what I'm trying to work out is like is like what do we want to say about the format of this this of this entity um um and um um to be self-con in that respect or is it not to be self contain that respect um and you know you have to know like do we have to standardize what the format of it is so so it properly engages depending whatever platform you're on like I just think like because I understand to say I understand maybe I'm just misunderstanding but I assumed the premise here was this is going to be we were going to have um you know some URL which when you or URI or whatever when you clicked with it like fired off some app on your local device and it has to work on every possible devices you have to specify what that interaction is or do I misunderstand entirely I I suspect this also might be a candidate for a consideration session I think um another consideration here is I've heard the desire or if you don't have an appropriate device so if you have an Android phone that doesn't have the wallet installed um that engaging with whatever this invitation is would um display some instructions about how to actually move forward with it rather than just being a broken leg um but anyway there are a lot of trade-offs involved in that so I I suspect this might be something that um would be uh that could be best addressed in that sort of considerations section I mean just typing in there I think it's kind of like device Globe right in open ID but sometimes you want to do it with like the type instruction to the user on the TV screen and sometimes it's a QR code and sometimes it's something else sometimes you kick in click this URL there I I think but yeah I think the intention that Eric was talking about is kind of what you're going for right it's a simple thing that the user can interact with but it doesn't always fulfill inside of the bus requirement yeah I think it's like self-contained data which uh tells the recipient what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "kind of credential this might be like is it a car key or is it a hotel Key something of a kind and which will allow them to trigger the operation process reader it needs to be a requirement or consideration um I have no strong people so and I think previously we had a requirement specifically around the invitation being deep linkable or somehow routable to an app on the host system of trying to redeem it um well we could look to expand this to include that or add another consideration for that so are the considerations like soft requirements or things that we just we'd like to include in the protocol but uh don't want to include them in the requirement section I'm thinking of them as things that we've had interesting discussions about that we know we're gonna have to make trade-offs around but are not a hard requirements for the protocol and I'm kind of making that up on the fly right now I wouldn't say that foreign yeah so this last slide was just talking about additional considerations I think um I might I have written some notes about some considerations I would just discussed so we might move but this is just one note we were curious what people thought um we had talked about the provisioning partner as an entity within the requirements doc such as kind of additional context about what's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "happening but I think we were unsure if people wanted that context or if it should be completely removed so we just wanted to hear opinions on that matter and we can adjust based on what people think and to add to that we removed the requirement around provisioning partner but we still have information to it in the background and things that mention it yeah so just in additional consideration session uh section uh we added a brief description what that could be what different types of credential transfer could be included a difference in key material Etc again it's all based on the previous questions where I initially it was out of school and we didn't provide any information and we are certainly open to remove that particular pretty good topic I think it's helpful to have it as contact to understand what's going on I just hope that requirements by the way like this thing may do everything all that it wants to do in order to get the credentials uh you know um I think it also helped under I think I mean I don't know where that goes and that um a lot as we used to this customer email a lot of the properties foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "foreign but you're clipping a lot um you're closer to the microphone seemingly but but I think that makes a lot of sense or when you're yelling yes yelling works too just yell at us that works great um I think that makes a lot of sense based on this last feedback shall we move on to the in the interest of time should we move on to the threat model sections awesome um yeah go for it Brad this is your section so previously um uh Dimitri and Friends uh had a draft of uh foreign a sample implementation um in there was a a threat model for that uh particular implementation which was I thought a helpful way to Think Through the properties um so using that as um some uh inspiration uh tried to create a threat model for the overall protocol and being generic about it since it doesn't there's a bunch of bits undefined here um so uh I want to go to the next slide foreign yeah so uh defined um a set of threats and then my guess at likelihood and impact um for uh that could be attacking a pure protocol or sorry a protocol that purely communicated from sender to receiver without using an intermediary server which is uh one flow that the requirement stock lays out um the uh as you can see uh with the last one we don't have mitigations for some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "mitigatable um uh and perhaps these mitigations aren't um you know fully uh um preventing any any impact here um give you all a chance to take a read through and provide feedback I'll also note that these were much more readable on my 30 inch monitor in full screen and they are on this uh meat Echo preview sorry I was just asking do these these mitigations do they turn into requirements if they are recognized as such I um they could um they I think these are suggested mitigations for these uh that um if there there could be other mitigations so I think the the key requirement is to um is to mitigate um summer most of these threats so so I think it's important to keep track of like which of these mitigations actually fall in the scope of the protocol right not everything will and some the stuff that doesn't you know maybe that goes into an Implement implementer's uh section or implementation advices or something like that but but you know we gotta make sure that we don't get scope creep just because we've identified a threat right because we can't deal with everything that was also my concern um because you know like the very first one there you can't build that in you can't be part of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "protocol right yeah right but it doesn't mean that it doesn't go in a in a text section somewhere you know cabinet I feel like we're gonna have a lot of these kind of like implementation guidelines of sorts right considerations also welcome um any suggestions for mitigations that uh we didn't think of or any threats uh that people foresee um either uh by the mail list or here by the mail list or um with issues and PRS on the GitHub yeah there's no mitigation for the last one um we could rely on device attestation which um you know Google and apple both have on our phones but that's a really hard thing to kind of this it's another just like try to do your best right like we can't put it in the protocol um and it doesn't necessarily even solve it since it's not perfect yeah so uh the mitigation to the last one might be uh as Eric uh mentioned in the chat uh credential replication which is a life cycle management for the credential and it often involves uh interaction with provisioning entity in addition to that uh second and third can be addressed by introducing second Factor authentication during the revisioning flow so when the transfer finalized and now we either interact with with a credential entity and during that time second Factor might be uh solution to the problem just my two cents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "very great um if no one else has comments on these then I think we'll move on today I'll just go go on the Queue to signify that I'm speaking as in the individual there's one thing that kind of jumps at me is that that you're using um RSC 2119 language in the first um mitigation and not the other two I'm wondering whether that's International or not maybe it's not right but you should probably kind of look at that whether it should be a capital should in both and and also um should be noted that in the like the last lost but one if it's a single-use credential it might not be a mitigation at all right so you probably make a note that yeah this this is a hard problem right and a real mitigation probably is about correctly if I'm wrong it's more about the UI right that that you're trying to make it unlikely hard for the user to make a mistake and that's a ux problem not a protocol problem um but you know I'll let those were my comments uh on the first one I think that's more of an artifact uh that I was copying from two different no stocks um that I wrote on two different days so um that is not that was not intentional uh so thanks for catching that um on the second one yes I agree a lot of these um will wind up either being ux problems or um uh device anti-abuse um device identities or service identity abuse uh detection problems uh threat model pieces about immediary server yep if we can move on um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:11",
    "text": "go ahead and turn on your audio can you hear me yeah I have a question about that last okay so I had a question about that last slide um some of the threats seem to be threats to the overall system right transferring credentials from Central to receiver uh but only some of these threats are actually built into the channel that we are trying to propose so I'll be trying to distinguish between threads that the channel should prevent versus the uh the process that happens before and after the perspective I was taking that was try to Define all the threats involved in this transaction from user to user some of those will be mitigated in general uh by the protocol and the communication most I suspect will not but just trying to document what they are and what we are trying to mitigate and what we are not okay so not all of this will go as a requirement towards the Tiger's draft correct that was my attention in writing this um after you take feedback that was the right decision or not thank you we have Eric in the queue all right yeah this is a different microphone we'll see if it's better um okay annoying I got the other microphone because it was supposed to sound better um can you go to the next slide foreign a little surprised by these second the second one since I'd assumed URL that had all the information in it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "and so I guess I should understand what the like the deployment model is if I have a separate transmission of the encryption key and the unguessable location like what is it like would it look like operationally forget about any of the like the the protocol what is the user experience yeah I think um I also question the um practicality of this but as uh it has a um been uh described to me uh uh you would send say the key um over your uh over SMS to your friend um and also when they arrived at the door there would be a pin that they could use to unlock the key um or you'd send the pin over email and the invitation over over SMS or something like that to have a separation between the two yeah so we're not proposing the protocol has to do that right movement uh no I don't I don't think the protocol needs to um necessarily protect against this uh more it's a thing that's been uh identified as a threat to these transfers and how do we uh and we should at least think about you know what the possible medications are uh by the way you might want to mute so I think the only question will be whether when we finally get to protocol design does the protocol have to incorporate this as a feature or does it merely have to be something you could do but that was out of out of scope for us like you know for instance you know while you type it in because a provisioning server is under your business another person's business so I think it was like that like this is all fine but like when we you know we'll have to remember this later would it be helpful to add a fifth column to uh the draft uh with whether this is mitigated in protocol by the protocol or not um yeah I think maybe yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "[Music] I mean I mean we'll eventually have to like this will eventually at the end of in the security considerations for this document yeah whether we do it now or later in the interest of time I think we should keep moving we have 10 12 minutes left yeah no problem so the next section so that was the full review of our requirements and our threat model document so really appreciate all the feedback there um so the next piece is were just some quick reviews of our one pagers um so just to know again these were more of uh thought experiments not necessarily that these are going to be our full Solutions um so the three one Pages we did were on webdav Signal and GSS API um I have slides for each of them but I just wanted to maybe talk about web dev the most I personally thought that um this might be a really good suggestion for us I think it actually meets a lot of our requirements um it is you know very similar to what we were accomplishing with our like our proposed solution and so I think that if I think that to solve this transfer protocol we could definitely basically Implement an intermediary using web dev and then potentially extend it to cover some of those situations we're discussing such as like potentially including push notifications um and maybe using open graph as well so that users have a preview before they click on the link um so yeah just as a whole I think I I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "certainly interested to see what others might think but I I have a feeling that it might be a really good approach for us after the requirements of that model are solidified to kind of look at extending web dev as like the solution for our page um for both um like signal signal and GSS API I think were similar and could be useful um I think for Signal it didn't feel as like directly applicable because it seems that the for signal is anticipating you having some semblance of a user account that you know you base your encryption off of and with with webdav you don't need those like like ideas of like accounts um which is just nice because then the intermediary server has like no no ties about who's doing what should I uh liked a lot um but it obviously would be very secure um but yeah so I don't know that's what I really want to talk about um oh Eric I see you are in the queue feel free to comment so I think these were actually answers to slightly different questions um but I think that the the web job one I think was an answer to the question um I think when Brad or iPhone or did was like how do we do essentially what the original protocol did but maybe with standardized techniques um like when Richard and I sort of said well why not signal I think that was in tempting to answer your question of why can't you just send the whole thing in one chunk like your transport so I think once we've conceded that we need back and forth that I think that like signal like anything that looks like it smells like a messaging system it's like I mean that's the answer to how you send the initial URL but it's not answer the whole thing and and the way you've described it is that that that whatever changes in the URL of our properties which signal with me or iMessage would meet or whatever it would be right um and I think honestly the GSS thing I think probably like we could just take off the table um that I think there was a I think there were sort of like um I think when the people I was the person who voted it but I think the person who floated it was kind of saying like that this whole General apparatus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "smells like GSS in terms of credential management but like you know and when you replace you know CCC and the whole thing with GSS and I think that like that that the way this is framed which I agree with is that the purpose of this protocol is to solve the transform transport requirements that these other crypto cryptographic credentials things need and so I think GSS is not really like a relevant consideration so I think you know I think you know it's worth looking it's worth exploring this question whether web guys can actually have the job done and if it does that seems like an attractive option and if it can't then we need to decide something else or steal something else but I think we can probably take the other two I probably are not really like not really operating for the purpose conversation and you can kind of see that in our one Pages they don't there's just so much that they miss and we call that on our one pages yeah and I I agree with you Eric it makes a lot of sense that you know there are suggestions about what we were trying to do but I honestly think for me I you know I was writing this web dev one pager and it did feel like look while we're having discussions with requirements and talking about web dev webdav did actually seem like it fit a lot of our requirements so I think um as you as you sent out in the email this would be like the next step after our requirements and threat models are adopted um but I think it would be potentially a really good option for this working group um so I don't know I appreciated all the feedback because I I had not even heard of webdav and if we had known about it before maybe we would have just done this from the get-go um but yeah that's that's that's kind of all we did for the one Pages it's not these documents don't have to be adopted by the working group or anything like that they're just very helpful for us to discuss it how it would work um definitely it looks like a very good base for this solution um but some extension need to be added to address certain aspects um that we listened before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "um to the chairs uh I'd like to suggest that the requirement Doc and the threat metal dock are could be adopted by the group um and do that call on the list yeah I was just gonna say I think maybe it's time to do that and the question is whether we do it in in the before or at the um 1 16 timeline but me and Patrick will talk to the 80s about that and and yeah it's it will definitely be a call on the list either way because there I don't think there will be enough people in your grandma too I have a um get a sense of the room there I know the you guys won't be able to travel to your column also we'll definitely do all of that under there yeah and we'll address the the feedback we've gotten I wrote it all down so we'll address that after this call hopefully you know within the next couple weeks um yeah and if we can get that revved onto the list I think that's kind of a good place to kind of that's a good I I my feeling is that there's this is has now gotten quite a bit of feedback even though there are a few people who have um sort of provided feedback it's still a lot of seniority going into all of this review so I I'm I'm kind of comfortable so we'll see if the working group agrees yeah and just before you are joining and we really appreciate all the feedback I know it takes time to review all these documents and we were creating a lot so certainly appreciate all the help from the working group and the email threads indeed very well said um so yeah Casey so yes we are getting kicked out of here on the dot right that's how meet Echo for interim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "meetings work so uh this is your last five minutes um for for raising any other issues otherwise we'll see you all in in your karma virtually at least thank you everyone no all right thank you thank you that's it thank you everything but y'all thanks"
  }
]
