[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "[Music] we\u0027ve got an extra it is a very it\u0027s a ridiculous room and door we are not projecting anything [Music] issues yes that looks promising it\u0027s about that time isn\u0027t it you\u0027re ready good all right let\u0027s get rolling blue sheets around about if you are here for Jenn dispatch you are in the right place we have been taking notes in are you taking notes in etherpad if anybody would like to join Ben and etherpad that I\u0027m sure he would be thrilled to have the help Murray is back there doing jabber scribing and and relaying if anyone wants to join Murray in the jabber room I\u0027m sure he would appreciate it and blue sheets are going around and if you are in the back and actually plan to talk come to the front and if not well fine just play in the back all right all of the appropriate information is up on the screen and oh and look at that we have magic button and everything it\u0027s early in the week but everybody in here I expect should know how to note "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "well the note well please do make sure that minutes you understand that minutes are being taken the meeting is being recorded and your presence is logged on the blue sheets if you have any issues with intellectual property and any of the things that are being discussed today you probably want to read up on the rules and check with a lawyer yeah do we have any agenda bashing to do any additions or subtractions I know Martin said he was running around doing one thing and so we may need to shuffle him to the end of the agenda but anything else need to be changed so the only thing I think we wanted to say up front is you know this is generally like most other dispatch groups or trying to figure out what to do with the documents that are being presented whether they need to go to a buff and what we\u0027re or whether they need to go away or whether they need to just have an ad sponsor them or what have you so we\u0027re trying to get enough information out of the proposals to understand which one of those things it is we\u0027re not trying to argue the proposals in here and then we\u0027re going to at the end make a recommendation to Alisa or whoever else might be involved about what to do there anything else you wanted so Joel why don\u0027t you flow it up and give us your dog and/or pony show hello I\u0027m Joel Halpern this is a very short draft and in fact I did not make any slides for it as it seemed pointless the slides would be longer than the draft so the history is very simp the relevant piece of history our history as a whole is not simple but the relevant pieces of history are very simple RFC 2026 says you can put that the that the RFC editor can publish informational and experimental drafts which I do not have IETF consents rough consensus I\u0027m paraphrasing which when 2026 was written was absolutely necessary because there were no streams so that covered IEP documents it covered RTF documents it covered the things that John Postell published which are now independence dream documents the iesg has for understandable reasons interpreted this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:16",
    "text": "to say the isg can publish informational and experimental RFC\u0027s in the ITF stream without having ITF rough consensus they have done this and recently proposed to do so ago ad proposed to do so again which is what caused me to go huh because that just makes the ITF stream is the ITF stream it should be ITF rough consensus documents so the now so this are this one says simple update 2026 to say the is T will must not publish informational or experimental documents in the IETF stream without IETF rough consensus and then it goes through and discusses the few corner cases we could think of it does note in the very bottom that if this doesn\u0027t happen the IB should probably look at the boilerplate cuz the IAB owns the boilerplates because the boilerplate difference it turns out if you do take this path is simply that the non consensus document is missing the sentence that says there was consensus not exactly clear but I consider that a minor issue because the right fix is dead simple right there on the screen so what I\u0027d like is feedback from other people hi this is Barry liebe I\u0027m the ad whoo-hoo Joel just mentioned I didn\u0027t suggest that we would that we should do it I suggested that it was possible to do it and I support this document I think it is generally the policy right now that we do this and I think making it cast a bit casting it in stone is better Thank You Philip Johan Baker yeah I very much support this having been the victim of it there was an occasion where at an early stage of what I believed to be an independent draft I was told in no certain terms that my input was not wanted and I had no right to raise it and that then became a draft and it is now an RFC with ITF and standards track on it and I was really really pissed as everybody knows and I tried to appeal it and was not able to appeal it either so I think that we should shut the door on this because it is a oh it is not only open for abuse it has been abused China I think you\u0027re next John Peterson I think this is a great idea and we should figure out a way to advance this document our consensus can I can I make the suggestion from up here that part of the question was what method should be we be using to do that not just that it\u0027s a good idea and thank you for I got "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "the irony of it unsurprisingly because I quoted as a troll Thank You Joel for doing the work I\u0027m in favor of this I as I read the Jim dispatch process they probably appropriate thing is to ask for this to be sponsored by the row of an ad because this is like so trivial I can\u0027t imagine what other process we would use for it takes anything other than ad sponsorship something confused dead it\u0027s not Hardy speaking I am broadly in favor of this I do believe that the document may need a slight revision to make it clear that what\u0027s the ITF has consensus about is or rough consensus about is to publish not necessarily the content because you may be publishing something as experimental in particular with the results of the experiment which you clearly have determined failed and therefore we don\u0027t have consensus around the protocol we have consensus to publish the results of the experiment so I think there\u0027s a little bit of extra wording or a happy to have wording suggestion but other than that I think it\u0027s generally speaking a good idea and I agree with ekor that this is probably something that ad sponsorship with a four week ITF last Call list discussion would be appropriate thank you John Europe Joan you\u0027re up high I think I think the principle here is correct my guess is that this is the wrong way you do it and then it would be better to do this on the basis of saying that talking about the streams and talking about what\u0027s necessary for each stream even if that\u0027s the idea does X and others things to Y rather than integrating other ones stating this simply in terms of what the IETF the stream us but the IETF must juice just feels wrong to me but I think it\u0027s it was correct thank you yeah well I think that that goes to after ad sponsorship John is saying he\u0027s got suggested alternate text is how I read his comment and but yeah alternate text it\u0027s it\u0027s an alternate approach but yes okay anything else so my read of what was said was we\u0027re pushing to ad sponsorship Elissa do you want more guidance than that Elissa Cooper it would be useful to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "understand these alternative things that people have just spoken about so getting a little bit of that feedback on the agenda specialist would be good and my other question is whether people think there\u0027s any specific subsets of the community that should become aware of this before it goes to ITF last call perhaps the other stream managers I mean I can take care of that but just thinking out loud just so they know I I\u0027m happy to take a task to do that as Jen Dispatch chair but whatever you think is appropriate there I can do that Thank You Alyssa thanks Joel is Martin here yet Martin are you here okay oh then I\u0027ll do ostrich oink\u0027s switching microphones so I\u0027m speaking as the designated moderator of the discussion that we had we had a virtual meeting about the eligibility discuss stuff and so I\u0027m gonna give you the highlights so next we\u0027re basically talking about two events here draft Munusamy recall Rev was published this is for those who may not have read about changing the eligibility requirements to be on a recall petition so not the recall committee not the NomCom but the recall petition the requests to recall an ad and the idea was to provide some enfranchisement for remote participants Moute that\u0027s the biggest change is that remote participants would be able to sign a recall petition you know the other thing it does is it changes it reduces the number of people on a petition in order to start a recall and this is about equity for remote participants more than anything else and it\u0027s seen as a small step that could be done and rather than go and going into the big thing immediately could lead to other changes so the eligibility discus list was set up there was some discussion about that and then ekor had proposed the his document which was more about addressing efficacy rather than equity which is to say the point of the second document is look the recall process does not work in general and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:19",
    "text": "maybe the better way to approach this is to have a new recall process in which the members of the iesg IAB what have you can a petition within themselves to recall each other I\u0027m sorry in place of and a comment from Barry yes clarifying the first the first document also includes allowing ISTAR people to sign on it yes that is correct that is different from what occurs proposing but right it\u0027s an echo did you want to clarify yeah I mean I think you know let\u0027s let\u0027s not get too carried away and like that details I make and I proposed first as me and my st. John\u0027s um but yes sorry about that\u0027s not good to carry with it here\u0027s our what we did proposed but I don\u0027t think it actually did replace I think it augmented I think we\u0027re just like I think in our version we didn\u0027t you could still do the ordinary hall procedure we just think it\u0027s useless okay I mean like obviously if the community was like do whatever whatever we call but whatever we called it expulsion and take away we call I wouldn\u0027t objected that so and but I think one important point is that the position of that document is that the current procedure isn\u0027t working and so let\u0027s try something that might work and to say that the draft Munusamy might be just moving around deckchairs so we had this virtual meeting and next slide so let me give you the high-level takeaways that I had as chairing this meeting first of all on the drafter score LA one of the concerns that was raised was that this introduces the possibility that it makes those bodies self-selecting which was kind of the point of making the NAM come in the first place was to not have self selecting bodies so maybe that was problematic there was a general idea and did you want to interrupt mark or I can just put a question mark Nottingham um I haven\u0027t been following this terribly closely and I\u0027m sorry for that you-you-you\u0027re I\u0027ve heard it a couple of times that the current process isn\u0027t working and I don\u0027t know what that means because it hasn\u0027t been used in a long time that was kind of the point so in basically kicking people out it\u0027s not good enough for wouldn\u0027t know that it that it that even the times that it has been attempted it never gets far enough because it\u0027s too difficult unmanageable that people people at least the the proposal the premise of the drafter score low was that part of the reason it\u0027s not used is because it can\u0027t be used not just because we\u0027re happy with everybody who\u0027s just not working there are values and better than that I\u0027d like to pull on those easy yeah yeah yeah yeah I guess the way I would phrase it is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "they\u0027re in a number of situations in which people were like very dissatisfied with certain area directors and they opted to just wait for the Waveland come said we\u0027re role and that that may be the right outcome but then having a recall processes in particular helped --fill um sure but again there\u0027s values embedded in that I mean the fact that a few people in this community are unsatisfied with certain things that happen is utterly unsurprising to me and I\u0027d be concerned if we were in a state that wasn\u0027t like that so I I what are you optimizing for yes and and I I think and this discussion was had was the open question of whether that was representative of there was not enough desire for a recall and therefore the process worked or yes there really was what we think was enough desire for recall but the process wasn\u0027t manageable and we have to figure that out but at least the idea of the second draft was on the premise that we\u0027re not getting there because the process is too heavy and here\u0027s an alternative that was that was the premise whether or not it\u0027s true yeah I I do kind of wonder spun do I think maybe I\u0027ll just we\u0027ll hold off on that because I do have I want to respond to you but I think I\u0027ll just hold off we can discuss it privately I may be wrong but I think residues a little more I think I think you might find pretty more persuasive yeah yeah and Eckhart did you want to say yeah I guess I\u0027m not sure I exactly agree with the second bullet you have up there I think there were certain people thought this was worth addressing and some who did not I didn\u0027t remember there being consensus call so I don\u0027t think we well I and again my interpretation listening there were certainly people who did not think it was worth dressing my gut and and you know it can be disagreed with was that the the general tenor was that yes this was something that was interesting to address and that some people thought it was not but the general movement was at least from my take that direction I was the one taking notes I was the one listening for that you can always choose to say I was wrong about that Lesley then Patrick Patrick Patrick McManus I\u0027m I guess given the invitation to say you\u0027re wrong about this I\u0027ll support the year wrong here and I think it was a hard call to to summarize and that may actually be my top level bit was that I didn\u0027t think there was a lot of consensus I thought there were you know around a dozen different people and probably like eight different schools of thought going on and and that was difficult and there certainly wasn\u0027t a lot of agreement across wise the other important discussion I think we had that I think you know I would add your list of top level takeaways is we had a discussion about sort of the cultural impacts of what recall means both to the individuals and to the organization which I thought was you know really sensitive and well done and one of the conclusions I kind of made was that as a reason you see recall it\u0027s not happening "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "is because they have a high cost with them along a number of different dimensions and so the fact that it\u0027s not being used might not mean it\u0027s a problem it might actually mean it\u0027s a choice fair enough at Wesley yeah I think Leslie I don\u0027t think he had enterprises I think that that I\u0027m sort of following on a bit from that part of the challenges or maybe a better activity would be to try to categorize in cases where people have sort of there has been some recall energy trying to categorize what was the issue and how is it resolved was it really a failure of the recall process that we have or was was it that was the only mechanism in order to try to find redress for a perceived ill but with that said I would say that whatever we do going forward think that a change to such a process that allows ISTAR folks to be involved in starting a recall isn\u0027t it\u0027s kind of an important step and an independent of the previous thought because sometimes there are cases where it is folk within the IV end or is G and/or IAO see you who see the issues and they\u0027re not visible to the community so they need to be able to act right and and I want to say from my perspective sort of listening to the conversation and I don\u0027t want to just to go back to Patrick for a second I don\u0027t want to diminish that point that I thought was really important that just going through a recall has certain impacts and certain really negative impacts depending on the purpose of the recall and and how it\u0027s used all of those issues whether it\u0027s successful whether it\u0027s useable whether it has negative impacts could in fact be separate from what the recall set up is and what it looks like so if it if we want a petition to allow people from istar remote participants whatever it is it may be okay to leave the rest of the status quo as is that it\u0027s still really hard to get furred to get people the gumption to get up and do that kind of recall thing and it\u0027s why I sort of separated out equity as an issue I didn\u0027t hear anyone say it\u0027s not a good idea for it to involve remote participants what I heard was it doesn\u0027t necessarily improve things to make it easier to use so and and I know those sound like weird well if it\u0027s not usable why even bother going through it but the idea being that equity might still be a useful thing to have in the in the process Phil yeah I did at one point go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "through with lawyers working out how to use the recall and the appeals piece on a certain topic of great moment at the time and the conclusion was that basically the recoil mechanism is unworkable because it takes longer than the tenure of the office holder for start it would probably blow up the organization just trying and if you were going to do it I think that you would at least want to have people attend ITF meetings in person first to sort the thing out directly and if you weren\u0027t making that sort of input I just don\u0027t see what the you know I I think the text I think of all the things about the virtual participation this is probably the very last thing that I would want to involve them in because I think that the type you know there are certain people who would use that capability there will be the worst people for using it and I think that goes to that last bullet item about people expressed a lot of concern about denial of service attacks by using the recall mechanism I think the response to that that was most salient was remember that this is only the petition so even and given the mechanism that was described in the document which is you had to be registered remotely for three out of the last five meetings it would take you at least a year to be able to get enough sockpuppets to start just the petition which could then be dismissed by a recall committee so but yes it was definitely a concern that was raised elisa then Ted and then John will be after that ELISA Cooper so on the call I\u0027m just speaking as an individual with a particular perspective on the call it was musing a little bit about the extent to which there\u0027s some like shame involved in this process and how some people who are you know in a position where they are not performing the role that they signed up for can be in jeopardy of feeling this kind of shame and you know how how does the recall process or refinements to it like potentially exacerbate that and I\u0027ve been thinking since in the time since then about like why why my brain led me in that direction in the first place and I think you know a big reason for that is because in the last year and especially in the last several months the ia and myself in particular have been working a lot and thinking a lot about conduct in the IETF and encouraging a more positive and friendly atmosphere and I feel like that is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "very pressing need that you know that attention and that work is very pressing in the community and it would be great to to take some of the energy that\u0027s involved here in this and and directed at that these might not necessarily be at cross-purposes but you know thinking through ways that we can support people who are in leadership positions who may be falling down or you know ways that that people can sort of gracefully move out of out of the process as opposed to this which is quite public and adversarial and and all of these things I feel like work in that direction would be more aligned with the overall sense that at least the is she has heard from the community that we want to be building you know a more kind of compassionate place that that is more welcoming to people so it\u0027s just like a little bit of a tension that I see in that like if people are you know want to do something like can we put it into a more positive direction as opposed to this which by which by its nature is kind of a pretty negative and divisive direction and one of the things and I think it\u0027s a good point one of the things that I think I saw it was mostly in the jabber chat but I think it was brought up was that I think what people have in mind by the kinds of recalls that were involved were not simply people who were failing to do who are unable to do work or falling down in the job as you described it but people who are doing some sort of active harm the people who were being abusive or and these I think are incidents that have not been recent I think these are older incidents but I think that\u0027s the kind of thing that people had in mind when they said well look you know the having to come up with 20 signatures and do all of this and not being able to get input from ISTAR not being able to get input from remote participants was very much about active malevolence rather than just inability to do the job for whatever that\u0027s worth Ted and then John and then we have a jabber intro oh yeah feel free to interrupt with the jabber input they\u0027re very brief it\u0027s Michael to him who says he\u0027s a virtual participant here he was sick he got the flu couldn\u0027t fly to Singapore and is very grateful for the ability to participate virtually Thank You Ted Ted Hardy speaking I I wanted to return to the question of how you would dispatch this thank you and I think it\u0027s very clear from the conversation up to now that ad sponsorship pretty much offers a pool but the level of consensus that seems to be emerging does not seem to support an immediate rush to a particular solution here and I believe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:24",
    "text": "that leaves us with a ball for dispatching to an existing working group and I don\u0027t think there is such an existing and as I was thinking about the potential of what such a birds of a feather session would look like Phil got up and and talked about remote participation and I tend to agree with one of his comments which is if we\u0027re going to have a buff about equity for remote participation starting with the positive aspects like serving a noncom might be a more productive place to start than this but what I was going to suggest is if we do want to move forward with this and did hold such above one of the primary purposes of that Boff would probably be to figure out how to scope the equity question in a way that supports the remote participants rather than focusing very narrowly on this so I would prefer to see up off but AB off more broadly scoped in the ways that Phil and Alyssa\u0027s comments hinted might be better for the organization in the long term yeah and and I think this goes to that question in the third bullet and I think there was quite a bit and and what I heard was that was the real point of contention was start small about remote participation in this particular way or go broader so yeah thank you John sorry almost missed you thanks for almost missing me three things quickly the the other thing which came up on the call relative this fear about Gauss attacks is that once upon a time what it took to initiate a recall was from for anyone any single person without any qualifications or any previous anything ah to to simply notify the the eyesight president and CEO and and that was the equivalent of the petition process unless somebody\u0027s prepared or the ATM has become much more evil and much of that as many more destructive trolls over time that we had back then the statistical experience is the dissent just didn\u0027t happen so perhaps again I\u0027m Bynum paraphrase over set of the call that that can start his world over bro overboard and that\u0027s one of these is not in your summary two other things one is what which is the one I agreed about supporting people better somebody who is trying to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:28",
    "text": "initiate this would be nuts not to try it formal supporting mechanisms first if only because of how long and painful this process is and again this goes back to what the IEM has become a preacher or evil over the years rather than getting gradually better which I think we certainly are and finally with the grant the bluff question I\u0027d remind people that when this draft was first posted the discussion was about a ball and then it was discussing about a virtual boffin doing the virtual Barsoom and four wonders another that dragged out for a very long time and and finally turned into this virtual meeting which is crying except they were now going back to saying you need a BA Fellini debuff in Vancouver well that\u0027s the intentional or not the effect is just keep dragging this out and dragging this out and dragging this out and finally with guard the scoping question one thing we should probably decide however we said they handle this and maybe another verse a virtual Bluff is the right way to do it is whether the question about complete performance with recall procedure are part of that scope or not but are part of some others called thank you thanks Jenna hi my name is Mike coy I just wanted to amplify one of John\u0027s points we have to let the mic a little more very good thank you I just wanted to employ one of John\u0027s points to point out that as he mentions large numbers of bad actors are relatively easy to come by these days but I think it\u0027s worth noting that the cost of participating in this event remotely is zero dollars and so there is effectively no impediment to breguet ting this process at the moment if we choose to do that differently then there are ways to avoid that but at the moment I believe we should consider that as a viable part of the model Barry this is Barry liebe I started off well I I do agree with Ted that addressing the broader issue of non-common eligibility and other things to enfranchise remote participants is is more important than addressing this small piece but I have been convinced that it is worth addressing this small piece as a way to get there I think the irony of having a boffin Vancouver that is for remote participants kind of goes without saying and I think we\u0027re at a point where we could charter a working group directly without worst another virtual meeting to discuss it we have a mailing list and we should use that to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "start hammering out a charter I agree that this is way beyond ad sponsorship and a working group is necessary but I think the next step should be a working group not above at this point and and partly for what John\u0027s saying that it\u0027s already been pushed out farther and farther so the scoping should be done in a working group Charter Accra yeah well I mean obviously anybody can Bruce a charter and flooded but the reason this is getting pushed out is not actually consistent to do it and so hence like the discussion continues because there\u0027s discussion but because it like it\u0027s not like universal support for it so you know why not to feel free to float the Charter and then we can I guess we can the last call on the ITF list but like you know that\u0027s not gonna change the fundamental level of support Stephen so at the risk of another current I star member saying don\u0027t just focus on Rico I think to me it makes much more sense if there\u0027s gonna be a working group or a virtual buffle whatever for that to have broader scope on the equity issue I I agree with Alyssa about that you know expanding energy on making it better for people who mostly participate remotely see much more worthwhile to me sure as part of that address recalls but I\u0027m not convinced Asbury is that the recall the starting point is the best place one of the things that came up during the virtual meeting that I want to reiterate I asked the question whether folks thought this would doing this would cause active damage rather than they didn\u0027t want to do it there was some indication that people thought it would and you know I wanted I would want to hear that fleshed out one of the things that I think is important is people saying we don\u0027t want to do this is not sufficient to say there is not consensus to do it people need to be saying there is going to be damage by doing this and and if the work can be done and people think that it is worth doing without some counter reason if there is a sufficient constituency it should go forward that that that\u0027s just your opinion man as in know as in your says it I appreciate that is like the the top of a document you wrote but that document is do not itself have like any normative force so there\u0027s no consensus of an interpretation of consensus I understand what you\u0027re saying but there is no support in 2026 for in order to charter a working group there needs to be no objection to it that\u0027s a different statement for that\u0027s a different statement from the one you just met I understand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:33",
    "text": "Ted Ted Hardy for what it\u0027s worth I also agree that the way you stated that just a moment ago was problematic for any process document we\u0027re not looking at something where the the harm being described is is something where we can you know point to packets on the wire or some or similar what we\u0027re talking about here is equity and determining the equity balance among individuals between the potential harm to them of going through a recall process or the potential lack of equity or being unable to respond to situations which require recall is not something that\u0027s going to be easy to point to in the way that we can say your congestion control is going to damage the Internet especially for us let\u0027s be frank other people might be able to do a better job of making that balance of equity than this particular community but I got up to say something else and that is quite simply I think the harm here is that if you start the discussion of equity here it starts with a negative bias because it\u0027s around the question of who gets the right to accuse not decide the results of the accusation but who gets the right to accuse rather than around the question of how do we empower people to participate and I believe the Hartman\u0027s starting from that rather than how do we empower people to participate is the results will be narrow and unhelpful to the larger question and they may harm that larger question depending on the result so if you\u0027re looking for somebody to stand at the microphone and say this scope is wrong you need up off to get a better scope Here I am I appreciate it and I believe that\u0027s what I\u0027ve been hearing I\u0027m gonna cut the line here because we are a bit yeah Cullen Jenks the that I would just like to highlight that the one of the concerns that comes up on this it has been you know effectiveness Hawk Parker those types of things and we have seen that really happen there was cases in WebRTC where there was very clear evidence that remote participants in a disingenuous and fake people and fake things manipulate the consensus process so I I think that that\u0027s one of the things that people want want to see something like now that\u0027s sad I don\u0027t care about the recall process something works but I would love to see us having a better definition of membership in this organization than our current Nam Kham edible definition it\u0027s awful right so I would be happy to see us work on that for a more general set of purposes than just this stuff um but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:33",
    "text": "the difficulty is is we\u0027re not hearing concrete proposals for what it would be that are gathering a lot of consensus right that\u0027s the problem it\u0027s not that it\u0027s not that people don\u0027t wish we had one it\u0027s that the proposals look like they have very a lot of problems um and this term equity is this is just a slight little slide yet I can\u0027t put my finger on why the term equity to refer to the disenfranchised ation of the remote people really grates me in the same way that third-world countries great to me but it does great me I wish we had a better term interesting um actually let me ask a question before you disappear so the first part of what you said do I understand you to say you think that some sort of buff some sort of consensus building in order to figure out what needs to be done to get better participation enfranchisement pick your other term other than equity is what we need to do next I think it would be great to have a betterment of definition of what it means to be a member of this can have you become a member of this community than writing a certain size check three times set if off right that that seems like an insane definition but I can\u0027t think of a better one right then and so you know coming up with one that\u0027s good and look we don\u0027t generally have bossun technical objects things unless somebody has some proposals that look like they probably work right like if somebody says I\u0027d like AB off on perpetual motion machines we\u0027ll probably be like well you know when you bring us a viable proposal we\u0027ll discuss it but not before so yeah I\u0027d be glad to see something like that happen and I would encourage it to be for the broader thing than just the narrow recall because I view the recall is not terribly important but I have no objection of being these recalled right thanks Mike Hagen here okay so for what it\u0027s worth I think that what we\u0027re actually talking about here is the accessibility of the organization right the ability to reduce barriers to participation and the ability of new people to become involved in the ITF I think that that is a noble goal particularly for remote people remote participants of all stripes but I do think that that is a different conversation or it\u0027s a broader conversation but more importantly I think that starting that conversation experimentally is important finding new ways to make new parts of the organization more accessible is a valuable goal I think that\u0027s starting that process with what amounts to a discipline starting it in what amounts to a disciplinary part of the organization or a disciplinary process is a much riskier way to with much more potential negative side-effects which whose consequences will include if it goes badly on unwillingness to explore that further as an org then you would if you had exploring virtually on any other part of the ITF process so this is I mean this is a noble goal to get to but in order to drive accessibility and to drive participation in the organization "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "there are much safer and much more sort of net positive ways of driving that inclusivity than this or any disciplinary or administrative recall process Patrick you get the last word Thanks so I want to address the concept of active harm because you asked about it and so I think gather anything about this in two different ways with with this proposal one is the cultural side effects that we\u0027ve been talking about and I won\u0027t continue to to identify those but I think that\u0027s a big issue I think is also a tactical side when I talk with people about you know malfeasance that they they believe would you know make someone eligible for the recall process if you will instead of eligible assign for the recall process there is a lot of disagreement amongst what really qualifies there and this came through makalah as well and for some people this is you know misrepresenting the organization or something near very very high like that and for some other people it\u0027s a really disagreement with how they\u0027re doing their jobs you know sometimes actually come is actually looking to create that dynamic and it seems a little strange to you know within the organization itself to balance concerns right and so there will be disagreements about how people choose to do their jobs and there\u0027s a lot of discretion given to ISTAR but how individuals will go about those jobs and that is something we are selecting them for for both good and for bad and to put a lot of emphasis on you know recall as it intersects with disagreements about how that happens I think is perhaps a tactical mistake for us to do at this point from a very just dispatch equine kind of question with respect to you know these these to recall proposals you know I I think these should probably stop here but we might you know still one honor take the larger question of remote eligibility and I think that last bit is exactly what I was thinking that the recommendation of this room is sounding like it\u0027s leaning toward if you\u0027re gonna take on something like this take on the question of remote participation maybe membership although that word has all sorts of implications but but enfranchisement what have you and Bob that and maybe to be less ironic virtually Buffett but that\u0027s so far what I\u0027m hearing is the recommendation of the room does anybody want to disagree with that comes up all right I see thumbs up in a couple of places all right Martin I believe you are next victim John real quick Oh John did you want to make a comment yeah I just want to do Express this agreement I I think this gets back "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "to some things before setting the call about how to parse this out and and there is whether you call it an equity issue or something else I\u0027d rather call it something else there is a a real issue with remote participants being protect them cell against harmful behavior that is differentially applied to remote participants and that\u0027s a significant issue regardless of how often we predict it will come up or not come up and that was the motivation for trying to do this as a first step so just to record the disagreement thanks thanks Joe have a draft it\u0027s a bit of a trial balloon simply because it\u0027s a little smaller than the last topic and this this is I think an important question for this process to address which is look at that so this is the proposal it\u0027s about one page it essentially proposes updating BCP 9 which is you know the the all-encompassing process that governs pretty much everything that we do here with a very small change essentially just removes the paragraph because this notion that drafts expire I think expired a long time ago itself but I think that there\u0027s a bigger question here which is that how how do we run small things like this I don\u0027t know the answer to that we talked about having buffs but how would you make a change like this this is almost a nonsensical change and I would like to discuss it in the time that we have available but I\u0027m more interested in discussing this question right here who publishes this document what is the constituency for a document like this how do we decide what consensus is for something like this [Music] mostly so you posited that it\u0027s a small change so your question about how do we make the changes you think it\u0027s a small change I think it\u0027s a small change would you like to contest that point well I do actually but but I think that\u0027s kind of the point that they had to answer this question I think the first order of business is to make sure that there is a broader support for the notion of scope of change I mean in general I greet I think the expiration date probably makes little sense but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "do think that it makes sense in the context of understanding whether something is current or not right but that\u0027s a whether it\u0027s so it it is a small change it leads to a larger discussion of water all the ways in which we use this tiny little detail we started having some of that discussion on the list I think that that started going somewhere fairly constructive right so but to back out of having the constructive discussion right and focus on your question here I think the part of the answer to the question not eyetality the answer to the question is you have to have a public discussion whether it\u0027s on a mailing list even de kated whether it\u0027s other gen dispatch can launch these things or whatever right but whatever whatever the process is there has to be general agreement about the size of change is being undertaken before you have an answer to the whole question I think it was that connect stand right then Adam then Ted I\u0027m sober physically I have an answer to your question I think which is we should form a working group which would how people can present small things like this and then the working group it\u0027s just that the ad sponsor them and and so fortunately I have a time machine I went back and did that in response to reading this deck and so how does working group you were here and on so if people in this room are generally positive about it then the ad should sponsor it I am positive about it and I think baby should sponsor Ted Hardy and if acre has a time machine I\u0027d like to borrow it and fix some other things quantum leap project in five four three two one I wanted to make a point here that other streams use the internet draft series and in particular the ISC and the IRT F both use it and may have different opinions on what this means so I would suggest first that you make a meta discussion of whether this has to apply to all streams or not if it doesn\u0027t have to apply to all streams and I don\u0027t see a reason why it would then you can make the decision for what the expiration time should be on a particular stream by a statement from the people who control that stream so the ITF can say what the IETF is gonna do and that\u0027s fine and the leadership so this that works this is specifically an ITF proposal okay and so if if the proposal is only for internet drafts which are part of the ITF stream now you have to be able to identify which internet drafts are for which stream this is not necessarily clear from all such drafts to begin with but we we can work that but I think at this point it becomes a question for the stream "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:37",
    "text": "managers of that stream and their community to decide so it doesn\u0027t need to be something that the IAB or that the other streams have to deal with because their own documents and the series that emerges from internet drafts are unaffected so to get to your point at that at that point I think that means that the dispatch of this handily is limited to all of the things which it can dispatch to directly because they\u0027re all within the IETF it can be ad sponsorship or a working group within the ITF you don\u0027t Han have to hand it to a different body um just to put myself in momentarily your dutiful working group chairs here actually did a quick review because we saw this on the agenda and there\u0027s more in 20 26 and 24 18 than you probably think needs to be fixed to accomplish this task and at first glance there\u0027s a several sections where it appears so just to put that out there that it\u0027s at least interesting maybe not as hard as it might be but yeah I\u0027m not I\u0027m not looking to apply a patch to those documents I\u0027m looking to say that the expiration is removed rather than the patch I think that that\u0027s what we\u0027re talking about I completely missed 2026 when I looked at it because I look for all of the wrong search terms when I first went so you would say that they still expire but the expiration is removed from the header of the draft number wise you can come steph/andrea on the substance of the draft rather on the procedures how to implement it or not I\u0027ve recently set in deposition in a patent case where the plaintiff you know with a straight face made the argument that internet expired internet drafts cannot be used as priority arguments and I\u0027m not joking I\u0027m really not joking yeah keep keep that in mind this is and from from that viewpoint which is a business viewpoint agreed but from that viewpoint it\u0027s a very good idea thank you David\u0027s can now see Google allow me to start by saying your choice of fonts is bad and you should feel bad what about the colors the more seriously I support this change for two reasons the the first one is yes for the reasons you cited trash rooms expire and there we keep finding more reasons why this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "good and the other one is for the meta discussion of if we have some process questions in the ITF that we don\u0027t really know how to fix I think this one is small and simple enough that it\u0027s a good way to prototype how do we go about fixing such things and that\u0027s a good thing to do regardless of what the topic is so just to note for everybody there are six people in the queue and four minutes left so focusing on the dispatching question would probably be most helpful but we will go over a little if need be ELISA Cooper this is not gonna help you with that sorry so I just wanted to raise a few related ideas that have come up in conversations about this in the last several years so you know people mentioned concern about the liveness of the draft and this being an indication of it being alive or or dead or current or whatever it turns out that there\u0027s ways to indicate that that aren\u0027t related to a date like saying current or active or dead which you can actually mark in the data tracker but not in the draft themselves so there might be other bits of metadata that are actually like more semantically expressive than than the expiration date and achieve some of the same and there\u0027s also been conversation about the fact that the expiration date is felt by some to be a forcing function to to renew the draft and one might consider either for the kind of active versus versus dead question or for the forcing function that if authors find that helpful then it can be up to them whether this appears or not in their own drafts so it need not be uniform for all drafts in their repository about this question here I do think that any of the normal options would work I don\u0027t think we need some special process other than either 80 sponsorship or spinning up a working group I\u0027m not going to advise you about which one of those might be appropriate or not but I think you know especially if it involves updates 26 and 24 18 you know normal process Steven pearl so I don\u0027t really care about this change but I\u0027m not against us unless you end up with internet drafts following different rules for the different streams so if you go to make this change just talk to the ISEE and the RTF tear and make sure everybody is okay with doing it all over I don\u0027t care what the process is but anything yeah I don\u0027t see any negative to this unless it means that we have like another screwy rule that applies differently to different streams which with I think with internet crafts is not the case today I think that\u0027s right yeah even though the boilerplate may not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:39",
    "text": "really applying some of the other streams they tend to attract it yeah yeah fill harm Baker i I support this change to answer alice is the way that you can avoid the pressure is there\u0027s a Perl script just works every six months put in contact if people want to mark a draft as superseded then the way to do it is to just put in another draft to say but is blank except hey go here and of course people could say this is a really bad idea don\u0027t do it and if somebody does that buy them a pint so John yeah I just want to put a stake in the ground for the dissenting parties as as someone who didn\u0027t feel like it was a good idea for the IETF to make expired drafts even publicly available or you see well and and this conversation confirms it one of the things which makes a clear distinction between the RFC series archival record and the internet drafts is is this notes an expiration and it may not be terribly effective in the boundaries thinner and thinner but removing expiration turns thee in an address to archival documents and people who are concerned that that RFC\u0027s from different streams are being confused with the authority and wisdom of the IETF had better think about this one and the ability of each role to post a draft before you make those drafts archival again just getting to send the human and into the record thank you this difference is touching you know : JS I I don\u0027t I wouldn\u0027t want to see a sent a huge amount of time on those I don\u0027t I mean the drafts no matter what people wish or say and I heard John\u0027s point they don\u0027t expire when you google the name they\u0027re there they are used as archival documents in law cases all the time I\u0027ve heard the same argument made by things and seeing every judge always instantly reject that these are documents that do exist and they are effectively archival in the sense that you you get them afterwards and that\u0027s good we use them we refer to them we could talk about when thing happened the timelines for when things happened but like the fact that we would spin up a working group to spend time on discussing this I I just doesn\u0027t seem like the most important thing I think this is your most epic troll ever yeah that that\u0027s a big statement mark "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:42",
    "text": "Nottingham I like this I think we should do this I think this is the right thing to do because the lines what we say with reality which is something I always think we should do however I hear it being asserted that this is small and simple and something that back of my head says that you may have opened a portal to Hell that\u0027s that\u0027s exactly my point of getting to this question yes the primary focus of this discussion was that we are this is talking about making a change to be cp9 which hasn\u0027t happened in right many years right and and and specifically people are talking about different streams and you know let\u0027s face it a large number of internet drafts are on no stream or they change streams or they you know they change states multiple times and so you know we talk about consulting the community of people who use this that\u0027s an incredibly amorphous thing and oh my god we\u0027re talking about representational communities again and we know where that goes so just tread carefully I think yeah Alyssa would yell us yell at us if we said well we don\u0027t know how to dispatch it because we\u0027re out of time [Music] Ben exclaims that dispatch in art does that all the time I\u0027m looking at Alyssa for some sort of help here I mean I\u0027m I I heard a lot of just handing this to an ad is probably not it is that accurate yeah I agree with that I mean I guess I would be interested in your thoughts of whether there\u0027s anything you heard today that causes you don\u0027t want to like spin a new version that is substantially different or like any of these arguments sway you one way or the other so the one thing I did here was statements comment which is make this apply to all streams equally and that just means I think making sure that all of the different stream managers are on board with it as well but that might make it an IAB document not an IETF document and at which point I\u0027m happy to go talk to my esteemed colleagues at the IAB but I certainly would want to have this run through the the ITF as the primary consumer of these things and and I will note for Amusements sake that that you\u0027re faithful chair made a comment in the jabber room which made it seem like there might be some significant discussion in the IAB if you brought it to the I would just observe that one can have conversations with stream leads without having processes absolutely absolutely there is no question of that so the reason I came here and targeted this at the ITF is this this is an IETF consensus document or actually two of them that are affected by the change so this is I think the primary seat of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:42",
    "text": "change and I don\u0027t think it can go on the IB stream and become part of BC p9 and 37 but we should my view is I would need to go and talk to the stream managers for the other streams and simply say does this would you have any objection to this what sort of process would you like to see this go through what sort of community input do you want to see before this goes forward but I think it\u0027s primary home is still okay so I\u0027m hearing your suggestion is you\u0027re gonna do footwork to talk to stream managers and then maybe it comes back to a bar for something to figure out how to handle these sorts of things in general I I don\u0027t want to bother this I know I think this is that this is ad sponsorship if anything because that\u0027s the right level of energy that a change of this size requires if we can\u0027t do something of this size to our processes when we have such what what seems to be quite a large amount of support for the change then I think that we\u0027re stuck with the processes that we had in the early 2000s and that\u0027s not a great place to be that\u0027s why I ran the trial and this is really just a test to see what the process looks like John do you have a sword for this not well no I mean I just want actually to bring back I\u0027m not come in and again I think you will need all kinds of I offer in the community on this because there is no other process we have but to have Knox point the internet drafts are not a stream they\u0027re not a stream the products that get published by the stream managers are the stream in internet drafts or this weird amorphous thing that is handled by the Secretariat right and I I agree you\u0027re putting exactly the right question here is we don\u0027t know how to target something that is in this weird gray area so I agree this this is even more epic troll than our C++ because it I want to remind the room that we are seven minutes over now and you know people who want dinner might start chewing on arms they can do that I just happened to be reading the boilerplate my internet drafts what people might familiarize themselves with so the first that well the second sentence the first sentence of the second paragraph is internet drafts or working documents internet engineering task force then it does say are the word groups may I distribute working diverse internet graphs but then you own this the copyright notice says IETF trust so like one light will make me for wafer given the impression that all internet drafts as a practical matter that are published for our system our IETF documents of one kind or Jamaat some like deciding whether internet drafts expire or having the expiry help during the doser very different things is some confusing it and I cannot find in BC p9 or twenty five that the dog should have a expiry header so I think that somewhere else or not specifies at all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:43",
    "text": "so curiously I have looked into this question yes the boilerplate and the question of expiry are separate notions I want to attack the the actual expiry notion and address the boilerplate is a consequence of that and the IV owns the boilerplate despite the fact that the I trust is the copyright on the documents but I think we\u0027ll be fine on that on that question you okay with this outcome Alyssa so my understanding is that Martin is going to go talk to the stream managers about their level of comfort with this proposal I think if any of them comes back and is like a total blocker then then it\u0027s probably not going anywhere and otherwise it sounds like maybe a little more discussion refinement but if there were a path for this it would be a tease answer ship you can go with that and just a note from the jabber John what\u0027s writing that please talk to the RSC - sure on behalf of Martin he can do that I don\u0027t have a problem with that um and then has just typed that I believe so there we believe it yes Phil I do have an a OB item it quickly and and we will bring it okay so yeah this isn\u0027t gonna be something that you can discuss here we need to change note well we need to add antitrust considerations to it and I will be very happy to explain in private the circumstances that have made that essential and I would love to see a short little draft posted to the gender specialist and I\u0027m sure there will be a hearty discussion of it well the problem here is that this is gonna have to be drafted by lawyers and I\u0027m not a lawyer well I may look like one but I\u0027m not a lawyer you\u0027re welcome to draft something that says we need something that looks like such and so whether or not it has sharp content in it all right thank you all blue sheets please make sure they make their way up if you haven\u0027t signed one please come to the front and be back "
  }
]