[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "yeah [Music] okay all right I think we\u0027re about ready to get started alright is everybody in the right place I know after after four days here I actually ended up in the wrong place so flying in at the last minute so this is the NTP and tic toc working group meetings at ia TF 101 the first all we the blue sheets D etre has started the that\u0027s what I think when he\u0027s saying is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "that the first slide is wrong go so go beyond that just just go to that slide and go to the second page okay we need a jabber scribe volunteers Sam Sam will be a diverse cribe excellent I need a minute taker do we have any volunteers for minutes minute taker that\u0027s why you volunteered for jabber scribe oh thank you yeah cough is our volunteered for jabber scribe no minutes excuse me yeah cops volunteered for minutes excellent and Sam is our diverse cribe so I think that is all of the administrivia the next thing is the note well um I will note that there\u0027s a different version of these slides it has the correct cover page on it and I know this because I remember specifically typing in that dieter and I are the chairs of the NTP working group and yak off and I are the chairs of the tic-tock working group and there is another set of these slides somewhere that actually has yak off in his properly acknowledged role as ticked off chair but so you can\u0027t sit up here I will say also that we are it hasn\u0027t been the top priority thing but we are planning to combine the two working groups and we\u0027ve been talking about it too fast and we will get that done at some point so this is the note well it\u0027s the new note well that you have seen many times this week next slide is the agenda slide and we were going to do a tiny bit of of agenda bashing and I actually already incorporated the the agenda bashing piece into it so I know that the young data model guys are going to do a quick verbal update and then he has to run because he has a conflict from the so what I\u0027d like to do is I\u0027m going to move the rest of the working group status down to the end and then we\u0027ll start with the yang data module and go from there if that\u0027s okay with everybody alright so we are onto item number one we\u0027re gonna get an updated and have an NDP yang module is going hide this is true thank you for accommodating this request so basically we made an update before the ITF the update was not that big the based on what was last presented in the LA remote presentation given by Uncas the main "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:14",
    "text": "changes were we added an if feature because a couple of things that were there are not implemented by everyone so some of the optional things we made sure that those are used as a feature especially though the idea of allowing port numbers to be changed which is definitely something we wanted to use a new feature and apart from that we also made sure that the examples are there in the document which explains how the young audience is used so there is now XML data which shows how various configurations have been made so a bottle that I think the the draft is pretty stable we of course would like more reviews before see me make further progress thank you is there any questions other model any questions how many people here read this draft okay okay thank you very much well thank you again you\u0027re welcome so next on the agenda we have a remote presentation towel are you ready to go I think I am can you see me in here me we can\u0027t we can you could be a tiny bit louder I don\u0027t know if we have okay I\u0027ll try to speak closer to the mic can you hear me now yes okay great so my name is tal Mizrahi I\u0027m from Marvel and we\u0027re going to give in short update about the packet time stamp format draft and next slide please okay so the intended audience of this draft is basically network protocol designers and the goal of this draft is first of all to define a set of recommended time stamp formats and second of all in case none of the recommended time stamp formats fits what you need the goal is also to define guidelines of how to define packet time stamp formats so these are the goals of the draft just short background next slide please these are the main changes compared to the previous version of the draft so first of all there were quite a bit of comments in the previous ITF meeting also on the mailing list and we believe we addressed all the comments for example one comment from Greg about terminology we added some more details "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:16",
    "text": "about the terminology of time stamps in general we\u0027ve also significantly changed this time snap specification template we made a distinction between syntax and semantics so if you leave now it\u0027s clear and also there was quite a bit of discussion on the mailing list about leap seconds whether they need to be included in the specification or not and actually we also had quite a bit of discussion between the authors about this because it\u0027s not a trivial issue but we decided to include it in the specification template so right now you\u0027ll actually see a subsection there about whether the time stamp is affected by leap seconds or not so there\u0027s in the current version of the draft there is more detailed text about leap seconds and there\u0027s some discussion about that another aspect which was was significantly revised and this version of the draft is the control field section so first of all thanks to the people from the network Time Foundation which gave us good inputs about this and in general quite a bit of text was added here so now the section includes a subsection about requirements and the subsection about features and the elements so we\u0027d really like some feedback about that next slide please ok so one thing we\u0027d like to discuss with the working group is a possibility to split the draft into two drafts and we\u0027re considering to split it to one draft which includes the time span time stamp specification template plus the recommended time stamps and the other the other draft would include the control field specification so obviously there are pros and cons here so obviously we started out as a single draft because these two things are tightly coupled the control field and it defines how to use the time stamp itself but at this point or the last few months we realized that the control field specification seems to have a life of its own it\u0027s it\u0027s there are a lot of details which we didn\u0027t think about when we started this and it seems like there\u0027s quite a bit of work that we want to to do about this so it looks like the first part of the draft which is the time stamp specification template is almost ready and the control field still needs a lot of work so we are considering to split these two drafts if that is the case and assuming that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "people think that\u0027s the right thing to do we can do that after the current IDF meeting and we will probably be able to send the first part into working your last call and the second part will need some more work on that so it really like some feedback about that and in general would be happy for any other feedback that people may have Thanks all right any questions sir description so like you both I was gonna bring up the same thing the stuff at big Moose key like did it result in any changes like accommodate the mpls stuff that it\u0027s being done elsewhere the MP other stuff like last time I think indirect spoke about it there\u0027s some mpls working group MPLS really the working group that is doing a different kind of time Sam and I thought you were gonna sync with him regarding that and then like do a division by so like same thing can be used in multiple places at least I understood that was there like the conclusion from the last meeting don\u0027t remember that show me so I need to revisit that yeah this is have a chat with Greg and see you know what he\u0027s up to because like we don\u0027t all keep track of the routing working group so if he has something going on there maybe it\u0027ll be good to sync up okay sure yeah yes yeah cough ital there was discussion in IP p.m. where Greg mentioned what he\u0027s doing in the MPLS I think it\u0027s the same as what you have here I\u0027m looking at the draft man excuse me for not keeping up but another comment I have you you don\u0027t seem to differentiate between the old PDP for math and the new one and the reference is only to v2 and the what you call truncate is actually like let\u0027s say Y 1731 actually references the 2010 help me 2002 is the original the v1 v1 inspect 2002 so I think maybe for clarity should separate that one okay we\u0027ll try to clarify that any other comments regarding specifically regarding splitting the draft Yakov again I\u0027m just reading it now in real time since this is a document which we which would help people who are trying to use time stamps who apparently are not used to them I will actually prefer a single document rather than having to it simply is more load for someone who would like to use this so if you\u0027re trying to help people put it all in one place obviously if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "it\u0027s a constraint that means that it\u0027s going to delay the document too much then maybe we have to compromise but if you could finish it off it sounds better to have one document are there any other opinions on splitting inner keeping in one tower I\u0027m getting I\u0027m supposing that since you said since your question is to split it into two you would prefer to split it into two or I personally would prefer to split it into two but I think you know we had some discussion between the authors and it wasn\u0027t you know completely clear to us whether it would be the right answer that\u0027s why we are raising this as a question to the working group but I think like Leah Cove said if we want the first part to be published soon the right way to go would be split the two documents and if if we prefer to have no self-contained document at the expense of having it earlier then keeping it this one document so could I ask you to send a note to the mailing list a and doing two things in this this Note one reminding people to read and comment on your document and then second of all to ask what they think about this particular question and then we\u0027ll see what kind of feedback we get on the mailing list maybe make a decision that a virtual interim that we\u0027ll have coming up said okay sure sounds good just one more question you have again looking through the document quickly and once again excuse me for not having to look at it ahead of time in MTP there\u0027s also a difference a time difference and I don\u0027t see you referencing anything how to do that we needed a delta T in a specification is that part of the scope of this document are you still there tell-tell you might want to buy Jabar okay so we should um move on okay so apparently he just lost connectivity okay excellent so moving on the next so the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:23",
    "text": "conclusion of that document is tau is going to send an email to the mailing list asking for a review of it and also asking whether we should split it or not I think this document this is the fourth version of this there was two versions of it as an internet draft and two but this is the second version as a as a working group document I think it\u0027s it\u0027s time for everybody to start taking a look at it and review it okay so so next we have another remote speaker with without slides and this will be an she\u0027ll who is going to give us a brief update on the Mac document for you there and chaough I might have to you probably need to get in the queue and I need to let you speak okay so I don\u0027t hear I don\u0027t see onchao I\u0027ll keep an eye up for when she comes on online I will bring her back in I do know that we\u0027re in that sort of awkward period when the US has already gone to daylight savings time and you all haven\u0027t and I already know that one person I expected in the meeting I was like you do know it starts in 25 minutes and they were like oh no so I imagine there might be a few other people that would apply to so in that case I\u0027d like to talk briefly about the control message protocol Brian did you want to talk about that I don\u0027t think that your agenda oh you\u0027re on this agenda lovely why in a minute I\u0027ve had the lovely proposed privilege to find the right the the mode six command document yeah what\u0027s it yeah yes but sick so I I think the document is in a very stable State as far as I can tell it captures all of the mode six commands that were documented in RFC 1305 I believe it also includes a couple of additional commands that implementations have put in I have a pending change to address one comment on security requirement or there were security considerations section just adding a reference to BC p38 two to try and keep malicious mode six commands out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:23",
    "text": "of the off your server so there was some discussed on the mailing list about either adding new commands or changed the way they work I think the goal of this document is to stay informational and simply reflect what\u0027s been implemented either out of the 1305 specification or up to this date I don\u0027t think it\u0027s if we were going to change the mode six commands I think it would require a whole new document with with a whole bunch of other considerations put into it so unless to me chicks and screams loud or I\u0027m going to say I think after I released the next version that should be a working group last call yeah alright any questions on the control protocol the next version win so I have all the edits the XML is ready to go I was going to get people to the end of the week to say if they see anything in here that they don\u0027t like and if not I will push it out before I go on vacation next week right so with that lion plans to publish real soon so there if there\u0027s anything else and then at the end of that we will go to working group last call on that document so ancho is back online so I think ancho you need to get in the virtual queue because we didn\u0027t schedule you as a remote presenter because you didn\u0027t have slides and so we didn\u0027t okay there she goes there that\u0027s yeah we can hear you now thanks it is your turn go ahead okay so for the latest Mac draft there are two main changes one is to the language with we had some confusion some doubts about must ensured in section in the recommendations a recommendation section that I will change and the second was the second change was in response to Todd\u0027s tal\u0027s comments on his his the interoperability with the older implementations and I fixed that in section 3 so those are the only two changes that I made from the earlier draft I didn\u0027t see any further comments will be addressed for the in front okay any other questions or comments on this draft for it\u0027s the I can\u0027t draft ITF NTP Mac yeah so it\u0027s the message "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:26",
    "text": "authentication code for the network time protocol and it\u0027s basically up just updating the algorithm that the Mac uses so I think this one has been around for quite a while now I think we\u0027re probably ready to move it on is are there any questions or concerns about that and just to clarify and chaough you had no further changes that you needed to make no I know okay okay Thank You Ann Cho okay yes we\u0027ll be going to working the plus column on this in the next little while okay all right thank you so I\u0027m pushing the button to get you out of the queue now and chow OOP she\u0027s already gone next one so then the next yeah it\u0027s not fair to harass the chair when you are off one of the chairs that\u0027s exactly true so so the next thing on our agenda is we had a hackathon team over the weekend and Martin is going to give us a update of how the hackathon went okay I know together yes I\u0027m Martin from Spy University in Germany and I talked a bit about the state of the current NTSF limitations and besides our second last weekend exactly okay the goal was to find remaining issues in the current and yes draft the big question was okay how can we achieve it so we started and operability test between two complete independent proof of concept of limitations of NTS and actually we have three of them next slide please okay first of all limitations so first implementations mine is based on C++ 14 and it support platforms so Windows and Linux on 32-bit architecture are supported linux this ARM architecture has support for the two so I can use NTS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "for small single circuit boards like raspberry PI\u0027s to transmit secure time informations my implementation is currently 92 95 person complete so it\u0027s the working on the protocol side one feature is missing so error and warning because and CITS key exchange still need to be edit but it\u0027s not a problem it\u0027s more informational for the client why I serve on maybe reviews requests NTS user own ATP implementation so this implementation was provide by some students of the Phi University and it\u0027s it\u0027s a small implementation but it\u0027s they\u0027re useful and for testing purpose perfect finally for my limitation I need mud much more tests and good reviews documentation and it\u0027s it\u0027s much to do but for test poster purpose because it\u0027s perfect buddy for a second yeah over anyone listening what you just said is very important is this an independent implementation of NTP not based on the base from the document it does this someone just cut down the original the the code no NTP is a complete independent implementation because I need implementation to it NTS on it and it\u0027s hard it\u0027s was hard for me to put this on server okay for the chairs of the NTP working group we now have an independent implementation not based on the emails code which is what has been missing for all these years in order to move on to full standard we do have actually multiple independent implementations now and so we are it\u0027s it\u0027s on sort of the back burner of something we do need to do but wait yes you are absolutely right we do have that so we really will be progressing ntp a full standard at some point in the what did I say earlier not-too-distant next little while well no I would say I would change it from next little while to not-too-distant future it\u0027s somewhere beyond next for a while but I mean we\u0027ve got we\u0027ve got several other burning things that we\u0027re really trying to focus and get done and so it just it we need to get it done but it we need some other things we need to get some other things unblocked so okay next slide please okay thanks the second implementation of antennas were provided by a tenure it\u0027s based on patent and as far as I know it\u0027s only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:30",
    "text": "for test purpose and a proof of concept implementation so he finished as ATS key Xterra establishment over TLS and ATP okay and the ATP message exchange over MTP for the client side finished the solar side is still working progress so Daniel writes this program as far as I know in a couple of days and this on the hey Cosima this was the very first test but I\u0027m so happy we have as I\u0027m limitation to test against each other okay second next slide please okay the certain limitation is by a Swiss students of the ausf I University by a team project that still in progress - it\u0027s based on C++ 11 it\u0027s 60 to 70 person completed currently not ready for testing today I received the mayor so the establishment is ready now but not tested I think in three or four months maybe in the next second we can test this implementation and then if we have more resides okay next slide please ok back to second what we see is the small setup for second so we have ve Westbury PI\u0027s single board computers on plastic cases each device is connected to a small network switch so each device has an IP address on it so SP PI we have an TS server finally we only need near to one on the hackathon so we connected it to the implementation of ten years of ten days of limitation on this papayas my implementation one\u0027s s so okay next slide please okay question when you said I connected to the Internet yes what do you mean you\u0027re using the Wi-Fi from the the room where you actually forced it to go out no isn\u0027t a connection and suis public IP address so not over wireless connection so it was just a local network no no Daniel was in Boston in these guys yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s the big I internet no Daniel was a remote "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:35",
    "text": "participant in this to the test oh we have three paths to test so we have at first the TLS handshake tears one part to handshake maybe later to s1 points V but could one point to and other words we have the MTS key establishment so in this phase a client and server expect some key material is a server generate some cookies but it\u0027s who is a client and we can close a connection after this we can use the ntp connection so a TS secured ntp over UDP the client put a cookie and the message we secures a message and 22 server and this last part can we repeat as long as the client has cookies and if the cookie is a client out of cookies maybe we have a pact connection packet loss whatever the client starter and you nice handshake and suitors this is what we have to test yes next slide please well I\u0027m sure Phil runs out of cookies then at the plenary meeting there\u0027ll be a complaint the first test scenario on the hackathon we have one NTS clients the sustain its implementation the speech you test against my MTS server the test results were very interesting because the NTS Kea is exchange worked perfectly we found some small parts and implementation we fix only small things but NTP connection failed that\u0027s the first time because my implementation was wrong I have I guess I had misunderstand understanding in the draft so this was a reason for the failure but I was able to fix them after one or two hours and the second one was finding successful after this we improved to draft to avoid misunderstanding as a developer next slide please the second test scenario was on Tuesday on the code launch this test we tested in the other direction so my implementation was a client Daniel its implementation for server and we tested the NGS key exchange this was successful at first we have had some trouble with certificates but we saw that the ntp connection is not tested it because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "Daniel\u0027s implementation was not ready to test at the moment maybe he\u0027s finished yet I don\u0027t know you can see ok next slide please ok finally last overview of the results you see we have three parts of the communication we have six test cases so for each direction one five of six tests we are successful one test is outstanding maybe we can test it in a couple of days this is perfect and yes finally I think it\u0027s it looks very good okay next like this so lesson that interoperability test is pretty important to find him issues and specifications and what I mean is misunderstandings and draft so now currently now currently we know the current wife works perfectly and as yes Bible I saying it\u0027s a good sign if two completely different implementation works against each other and okay we have to discuss some small points we have to perform some fine tuning and complete to test but I think we are pretty close to the last call and I sing yes it looks pretty good okay next let oh yes okay last slide yes on the left side you see the team members on the hecka some thanks about all was very very great it was a great experience and especially for Daniel Biss implementation I know it\u0027s much work to use it and it was very productive and where we would be nice so our code is online on the github repository so my code is on Apache 2 license you can do whatever you want maybe write a comment maybe it\u0027s helpful yes last comment our implementation of all clear where\u0027s the first implementation which use fc7 a2 - yes I think maybe we see us as a the next Eccleston for more tests and yes anyone questions alright so a couple things first of all I\u0027d just as a reminder to the remote people that are on me echo there is a button you can push to get into the queue and I forgot to remind you at the beginning I Angeles was using it correctly to to speak earlier so at this point does anybody have any questions for Martin on the hackathon effort I did yeah I do want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:45",
    "text": "thank thank Richard and Martin and Daniel I think we in India tur I think this was a wasn\u0027t excellent first started getting some implementation experience on NTS we do hope to repeat it in in Montreal and so I\u0027d like everybody to be thinking now about what what pieces of it or what kinds you know how far along your implementations might be and what kind of testing we could do in Montreal perhaps we would this this one was really about just getting some initial code on the table and getting some preliminary testing done you know we didn\u0027t do any in-depth testing so it would be nice to do to a little bit more structure more advanced planning next time so any questions or comments so so apparently when I was creating this set of slides and I think I have two different versions somewhere on my laptop I I have man to edit it incorrectly so so at this point let me ask them did you get that okay so so we have sort of a fork in the agenda at this point Harlan we could do the extension field draft now or we could do the NTS piece now I don\u0027t think we have you fully set up to be a remote presenter and so my suggestion it would be for us to control your slides from here and for you to get in this the queue like a regular speaker okay so he\u0027s just lost his medical window okay so at this point what we\u0027re going to do is we\u0027re going we\u0027re going to leap immediately to the why don\u0027t you do the NTS update so we\u0027re going to talk about the NTS 1 and I didn\u0027t realize you were going to use that picture for this one I sent it to you so so we\u0027re gonna start with in TS and I\u0027ll figure out in the background film where we are with Highline all right go ahead thanks thanks for this interesting photo you need to be really close to the mic yeah just yep just pick it up just take it up let\u0027s take up really okay yes thanks for the picture it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:48",
    "text": "demonstrates that is currently under construction next slide okay just one week before the before this meeting we pushed out version 11 but the changes were introduced they are quite minor that have been we\u0027ve introduced two diaphragms one to to demonstrate how the key changes working the interesting change and one for the corresponding time exchange and the second change is that the you were named such a structure VBB changed somehow the structure and renamed sexual part 7 - section section section 6 so that are not large changes larger updates they have also been some minor editorial changes so what they did not change was the sections level that describes a possible format of say cookie I\u0027ve asked in Singapore about comments especially for this section with because the format of the NTS cookie is not normative so we\u0027ve got now we didn\u0027t get comments regarding this question if this has to be normative anonymity so our conclusion currently is that we will keep it the way it is now next slide so service arts Woonsocket on you can skip that martin already presented that so next step as we want to push up version 12 in some weeks this version shall include especially we saw some SIA on which clarify some of the language then they want to we would like the vehicle to agree on the next ridiculous car and hopefully having another one second ticket on in Montreal so question or comments yakov I\u0027m not quite sure how the interrupts testing was done if it\u0027s not a format for the cookie is it is that delay anything or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:51",
    "text": "is it each side can do what he wishes the cookie the cookie the client is is now server is constructing the cookie and it has to be apart to the client so that\u0027s a reason it\u0027s not normative in the in the draft it\u0027s the TAF only describes that as in recommendation how to format the cookie so you\u0027re saying the client has to accept any format and any size that the server serves it he must not interpret a cookie you only have to start and to scientific okay so is there any limitation on size at least that should be mentioned yes there are there are some rules according to the length of the extension field in which cookies encapsulated but that\u0027s that\u0027s described and that\u0027s normally okay another thing I just wanted to mention because I see it in the chat is Brian has mentioned that the hackathon deserves a section to be added to the NTS draft okay so and he\u0027s provided weapons here the hackathon up that deserves an RFC 79 42 section to be added to the to the draft so I just wanted to call that to your attention in case you didn\u0027t see it later in the chat okay thank you information any other questions on NTS [Music] okay so we\u0027re going to try this again so the next agenda item will be the RFC 78 22 biz effort and what we\u0027re going to do with is we\u0027re going to control his slides from here and then we\u0027re just going to put Harlan in the queue so Harlan if you can get in the in the regular queue I will push the red button and grant you the floor are you getting to the queue oh there we go okay so do you have his slides up you do excellent all right so hopefully you can still see a miyako window Harlan and you\u0027ll be able to see your slides as well so just say next slide when you want us to move forward okay go ahead all right I trust you all can hear me yes okay first I would like to say that I\u0027m incredibly properly quantum well dressed next slide please thank you for sharing moments well there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:54",
    "text": "was a point than the presenter thing about making sure this was the case I want to make let y\u0027all know I was following the instructions so the purpose of the trashcan ntp extension fields is to provide an auntie i\u0027m gonna I apologize for reading from the slides you get a part packet parsing algorithm that addresses issues for parsing ambiguities based upon legacy mac it removes mac and extension field length restrictions allow a shorter es than what we\u0027ve had before next slide please it removes the requirement that extension field proposals specify Mac algorithms it adds a note to make sure that an NTP packets and extension fields need you know it should be less than the network MTU provides some expansion on the structure of an extension field header and it restructures the I an extension field table next slide please so the first change the proposal does is around 5906 which has a note in it that says extension extension field longer than 1024 bytes are ignored we got rid of that because it third benefit to using all the available space next slide please the second change we did [Music] this was in 5905 and got removed from 78 22 so we were moved we followed 78 22 removing the requirement that a Mac must be present if there\u0027s an extension field but we note that a Mac must be present if a packet is authenticated and we note that the maksud be either a legacy Mac or the extension field Mac and it may be both I\u0027m not ever sure there\u0027s a good reason for that but hey next slide please the third change we did we removed the 16 octet minimum size restriction on an extension field because shorter extension fields are occasionally very useful and efficient we also added text there too specifically let folks know about network em to use and some other explanatory descriptive tax on next slide please the fourth one has to do with the NTP extension field format we copied some content from 5906 which is informational to standards track document and we note that the error flag that will be deprecated soon because while it was specified for use by Auto key Auto key never used it on the wire one of the things that comes up is some people are saying they don\u0027t want to have to look "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:55",
    "text": "at an extension field the first two octets over the extension field and treated as subtypes flag that\u0027s a sub code and an extension field so it\u0027s entirely appropriate for people who want to to simply look at that as a 16-bit integer and they can treat it as a single number next slide please there were length restrictions inserted into 78 22 to avoid some extension field map parsing ambiguities and in this document we showed two ways to avoid the parsing ambiguity completely and we also show that if you don\u0027t feel like using either of those there are we offered two ways to demonstrate that the parsing ambiguity isn\u0027t a big deal providing pseudocode for those two examples if you don\u0027t want to do anything to keep you out of trouble next slide please there are there\u0027s a little addition to the pure process operation to accommodate the fact that the Mac should soon be available as an extension field instead of just a legacy Mac next slide please vii change is that we just move some information from 5906 to a standard track document and that goes to you can read I\u0027m pretty sure the Mac digest lengths go into there and okay I\u0027m sorry I was looking at the chat window to make sure everybody is doing okay the Mac digest length we clarify some stuff there and we talked about the the key ID ranges in the key ID field there are some information about auto key protocol messages that is actually pertinent to NTP itself not just Auto key we talked some about error recovery and some other items that ended up in 5906 that really were more general and then we restated the Ayana table for extension field type reservations knowing that we\u0027re planning to get rid of the error bit and that table also includes the checksum complement stuff for whatever it\u0027s worth I updated the drafts 10 NTP extension fields document I think it was last night and I got rid of some historical information that is not really useful anymore apparently and I fixed the table to be consistent with what it was in an earlier in the original form next slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:57",
    "text": "please so here\u0027s the list of the seven classes of changes that the document has and I think that\u0027s the last slide isn\u0027t it yeah if it\u0027s the last slide then yeah I assume somebody will have their I\u0027m assuming there will be questions okay so what I did was ask Harlan to put together a graphic clearly articulated what changes to 78 22 he was and two extension fields that he was proposing so at this point this is the summary list of changes and I\u0027d like to open the floor for questions jared montz from Akamai so I think with slide three but you don\u0027t need to change you know because you\u0027re number one the extension fields longer than 1024 octet is there a is there a max size because there\u0027s a discussion unfortunately can\u0027t remember which working group earlier this week about dealing with fragmented packets and what operator what network operators do with fragmented packets and I want to just have an idea of where this is and how how you\u0027re gonna handle packet fragment reassembly you know just in the protocol to ensure that things are getting correctly reassembled if you do end up with some third party device fragmenting it or if the intent is to always set the DF bit or something else to mitigate those types of issues the funny answer that popped into my head is I\u0027m going to refer to the network super glue document which does not yet exist but the serious answer to your question is the original proposal told folks to use something less than 64 K and the this proposal specifically adds a sentence in there that says while you can have a really large extension field you want to make sure that you want to be careful to not exceed the MTU along the network path so there is no specific information involved on what to do if you\u0027re going to do that open the suggestion for it we tell people to avoid the problem sure I\u0027m just concerned that I don\u0027t want to have an NTP version of path MTU discovery in addition to normal path MTU discovery as well I don\u0027t yeah I just want to be mindful of that okay yeah it\u0027s easy enough our expectation is that the reference implementation if it ever "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:57",
    "text": "becomes useful to have this which I imagine will happen soon will just have a parameter that says for some given Association what\u0027s your MTU and there will also be a default okay any other questions on this draft there\u0027s somebody\u0027s oh the echo is coming from Harlan okay okay Harlan you submitted an updated draft I have had absolutely no chance to even look at it but you know that huh so and you said you took out the the historical stuff and so I\u0027m assuming that the current draft is focused specifically on like this presentation on what changes you\u0027re asking for the draft 12 contain remove some of the stuff from the introduction and it changes the I on a table for extension fields there were a few other cleanups along the way but if any if anybody sees anything I think shouldn\u0027t in their in their alum you know there are a bunch of places in the text inside square brackets where I raise points that basically say hey we need to make a decision about this does anybody have a preference and those will all go away as soon as we feel like either address them or ignore them okay so this draft is currently a and I think that we\u0027ll check before I say something wrong [Music] somebody\u0027s got some lovely music in the background wind chimes yeah that\u0027s the cat saying he wants out is there a way I can mute myself yeah I can take you out of the queue I just wasn\u0027t sure if some different question there would be handy to be oh I see what I can do I\u0027ll just mute myself for a moment and then if anybody has a question I\u0027ll do that alternatively I couldn\u0027t you choose so just get back in the queue if you if anything comes up so the so this draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:02",
    "text": "is currently an individual submission to the working group and the point that we\u0027ve been at before is whether or not to adopt this draft is a working group document so I\u0027m is there any opposition in the room to doing that brought Hammerman and I walk up here scratching my head so what would be the intention of this document in relation to 78 22 is this going to become the genesis for making an update 278 22 yes it would be updating 78 20 - okay I think we we need to I think that we needed a clearly understandable document first before we really understood the relationship between it and 78 22 what we\u0027ve asked for is a Clara is to get the extension field stuff specified and and separate out all the new extension field into other drafts so that we have this is what NTP extension fields look like and then go forward so I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s going to in some sense update I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s going to obsolete it or I don\u0027t know exactly what it\u0027s going to do yet until we actually see what the document looks like and that\u0027s my question is and that\u0027s something that the working group needs to consider then is is this an update 278 22 or is this 78 22 biz and completely overhaul how the extension fields work right so I put it on the agenda today as a 78 22 biz because I was really trying to focus the conversation on what\u0027s in 78 22 and what do you want to change and amplify what your okay so you\u0027re amplifying me that\u0027s fabulous so at this point I think we we don\u0027t have any just got any more discussion in the room on the document I\u0027d like to move the question to the mailing list we\u0027ll put out a let me um I don\u0027t know Harlan if you want to jump back in the queue or type in the window my question is did you want to do another update before we do a call for adoption are you or are you confident with the or are you ready to do the conferred option with this one I say that having wait there you are assuming I\u0027m speaking now I don\u0027t have a strong preference and there are several areas in the document where I asked or I guess we asked because this is something that Dave and I worked on what do we want to do about these points so if you want those resolved before we before we move "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "forward great if you are okay result moving the document forward and then we address them that\u0027s fine too what do we want to do about what I\u0027m sorry have text and square brackets that ask questions that say we need to make a decision about this right so so you can we can have things that we haven\u0027t made a decision on that\u0027s fine because we expect that the working group will actually make some of those decisions and one of the things is that once it becomes adopted it\u0027s a working group document it\u0027s the consensus the working group for what actually goes into the document okay so but but I think part of the struggle with getting it initially as a working group document was the the clarity of what the document actually said and I think we\u0027re making steps in that direction so Sam you\u0027re at the mic Sam Wyler Thank You Harlan for making the effort to do this presentation and make it a little bit clearer across the document I found I struggled with I think the working group should consider the individual changes on their merit more than the doc and I is that making sense I\u0027m looking around the room and getting puzzle looks I see that the changes in here seem to stand alone from each other mostly and I think we could make a decision about which of these we want to do yeah yeah yeah I had actually actually originally thought we would just go down this list and and and go one by one and discuss them but it might but then it occurred to me it might be easier to do that on the mailing list it might but I would do that but but it was my intention that each one of these technical changes need to be we need to make a decision on this change adopting the document doesn\u0027t mean that we agreeing to do all of these changes Jared March Akamai so so Sam I was just going to say a very similar thing which is that we can submit a draft document the working group can adopt it and we can decide to adopt seven documents or one and you know do what do it in whatever format is necessary to make it easiest such that we can advance these things in an appropriate way to ensure that it\u0027s well documented I think my only concern would be and just it probably if we\u0027re doing at this document it probably does make sense to have it all together but that\u0027s pretty much it we can do it as one or seven yeah I\u0027d kind of prefer for them to be one just because and we can always remove something right okay so with that I\u0027m gonna kick you out of the queue again Harlan and the next thing on the agenda oh no we\u0027ve only done this one so hold on the the the next thing technically on the agenda was the new extension field proposals but in all of our activity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:03",
    "text": "over the last few days to talk about extension fields I didn\u0027t actually focus much on the new extension fields I wonder if you want to just step through at a very high level and say what the motivation for each one is and then we will discuss them in more detail at a virtual interim that we\u0027re going to have I just really thought the more important thing this time was to get the the drafts nntp extension fields done I\u0027ll see you back in the queue so forgive me for asking this do you have a list of them the rough ID ones in my head so it\u0027s in the unless I did a cup of coffee and paste oh it\u0027s in the agenda that\u0027s on the data tracker but the ones that I currently had on the agenda were the extended information the math last extension field the idea extension field and the suggester F ID extension field so they\u0027re referred I believe there are four draft stands associated with new extension fields okay in fairness to you we don\u0027t need to go through them today I just I didn\u0027t I didn\u0027t want them to be ignored but I also I also thought it was much more important to focus on verse a Chinon the other one okay the first one you mentioned was extended information as I recall and the primary motivator for that was there are people out there who you who still use AutoKey for the sole purpose of getting the tii to UTC offset and that\u0027s a fairly heavy way to get that information so I created an extended information EF and one of the first things that I put in it was what\u0027s the current ta i2 UTC offset there\u0027s some other information in there as well that we can add into because we\u0027re not really using much of the packet and depending on what we\u0027re doing we can extend it pretty easily in a backward compatible fashion so that\u0027s extended information what was the next one Mac last year okay this is a combination of two proposals that you asked me to combine Mac as an EF and the last EF into a single proposal and so we did that there too there there are many ways to go for the for the Mac field and in the spirit of we\u0027ll give you a robust mechanism and you can decide your local policy one of them is to avoid ambiguity in parsing one of the things you can do is not send a legacy Mac so and that for that to happen you\u0027d want to put the Mac in an extension field so that\u0027s one choice another choice you could do is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:05",
    "text": "make sure that there is a last extension field which i think is a whopping four octets long that says hey I\u0027m the last extension field so any data after me must be a legacy Mac not telling anybody to use either of these but if they do it means that there won\u0027t be any parsing ambiguity but in the face of a legacy Mac with extension fields the next one was which one the idea I do so if you\u0027ve got two arbitrary NTP instances sitting there and you want to know what capabilities each one is willing to admit to the other they offer what one side will do is send an I do request that basically says hi other side these are the sort of functions and extension fields and things that I support please tell me more and the other side will respond appropriately where appropriately may mean a crypto nak which is interpreted as meaning I don\u0027t know what you\u0027re talking about with this new extension field or it could be an I do response which is high other side these are the things I\u0027m willing to admit that I do and it\u0027s just a and this can be renegotiated down the line any time either side sees fit there it uses the response flag that\u0027s in the head that\u0027s been in the header since AutoKey because if I send you a request and you send me a response we\u0027ve just had a nice exchange if I send you or a request and you respond to it with another request and I you know you end up with a deadly embrace and um you know it creates an ongoing communication that just isn\u0027t necessary Daniel we\u0027re not using it to signal it it\u0027s what happens when you send an I do response to an old to an old version of ntp it doesn\u0027t recognize it so it thinks it\u0027s being it\u0027s it\u0027s seeing bogus like a see Mack so it responds to the crypto neck so it is a pleasant side effect it isn\u0027t a design decision what\u0027s the next one Karen the last one the ref ID so there\u0027s a whole bunch of proposals for ref I detain jizz they include things like ipv6 hashes we have had a case where the ipv6 ref ID hash matches an ipv4 address in the same enterprise and so we wanted to make sure we had a way to signal that we were dealing with an ipv6 breadth ID hash and if I\u0027m not mistaken that is the one that returns the first octet of 255 I don\u0027t remember which one of them returns 254 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:06",
    "text": "that one might be leap smear the reason for that is there needs to be a clearly visible way in the packet even to legacy clients that the server is sending them bleep smeared time and if you choose to do that an easy way to do it is to send back a rep ID that says I\u0027m giving you smeared time and this is and here\u0027s a I think we get down to about a quarter of a millisecond this is how far off the time is from true time and you\u0027re not expected to use that for anything except it\u0027s a really lovely test to make sure that the leaf smear is progressing as you think it should at this point in time but it is a very clear indication that you\u0027re following a leap smeared server there is one that says not you that Sharon likes her proposal was that I may not want to tell you who my system peer is so I\u0027m simply going to give you a signal that you won\u0027t know you know that that is clearly not you and in doing so you know that I\u0027m not listening to you as my system peer and you can choose to synchronize with me and there might have been another one I know one of the other proposes the next one suggested ref ID or mmm-hmm I thought you were already talking about the suggester fib one no the suggested rough ID is an extension is a different one I have four on the list extended information Mack lasted yes I do and suggest ref ID okay so this wasn\u0027t the overall here are some new rough ID proposals there is this there is an extension field out there go ahead no this is that these were the four drafts that proposes new extension fields then one of them the suggested rough ID might be in one of these proposals the suggest what yeah in any event it doesn\u0027t matter I was just um wait we have it in the agenda we have the four extension field proposals and so I think that the next the agenda was specifically ref ID updates which was I think we might be conflating I haven\u0027t told you about some of the ref ID update proposals then the suggested ref ID is different and should be discussed in this section the trick is that a ref ID is something the other person\u0027s tells you know that I tell other people what my system pier is there is currently no way for someone to say if you use me use your system P or use this as the ref ID and the suggested bref ID proposal does exactly that and the reason for this is that attacks can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:08",
    "text": "be mounted if if I know who you\u0027re using is your system pier and their attack I can mount against you because of what I know but the suggested rough ID is effectively a random number and it uses something else I don\u0027t remember what the range might be and the purpose there is to say if you use me as your rough ID use this cookie and that way a bad guy who sees it won\u0027t know that you and I are talking and the bad guy won\u0027t attack you or won\u0027t be able to attack you because they know who I am okay alright my point in putting these on the agenda for the working group is the the four extension field proposals are individual submissions and so we\u0027d like to get some review on those at some point and because at some point we\u0027ll need to make a call about making the working group document and the ref ID updates is a working group document that we we haven\u0027t spent a lot of attention on and so it\u0027s time to at some point it\u0027ll be time to move that one forward so I don\u0027t want folks to forget about them thank you so at this point we\u0027re at the end of the NTP working group agenda there are a few other drafts that have not had extensive update since I find my other since the the last meeting and I don\u0027t want us to forget about them we do have a BCP that\u0027s ready to go to the iesg I wrote a note sent to the iesg because I promised myself I would send it before I got to this meeting but I\u0027ll have to say it\u0027s ready to go to the iesg the NTP data the client data minimization this one is ready for working your class call will be issuing a looking good last call shortly after this we have to admit in all of the excitement of NTS and extension fields we forgot to do that the the client data minimization right there is also an NTP correction field and there\u0027s been no updates to that but that\u0027s also sort of blocked on us resolving the extension field issue and then there\u0027s the NTP interleave modes this is one that I do believe is ready for working group adoption there haven\u0027t been a lot of comments on it it\u0027s something we talked a while about about getting out there and then there\u0027s also a draft on on implementing time was presented last time that was suggested that we adopt in this working group but I there has not been an update on that one since the last IETF so if you are not familiar "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:12",
    "text": "with the data tracker if you look at the NTP working group under the under the data tracker for this meeting you\u0027ll see that all of these drafts are attached to this meeting and while I might have gotten the slides out of order for the agenda that did get all address attached so so the so that concludes the ntp portion of this this working group meeting are there any other ntp issues that we want to bring forward okay so the next portion of the agenda is tik-tok and for the tic-tock agenda we have a quick working group status and the status of this is we have two documents that are also ready for the iesg we\u0027ve completed the yang data modify Tripoli 1588 b2 and we\u0027ve also completed the enterprise profile for the precision time protocol for mixed multicast and unicast messages and this profile actually also had some has had some some implementations in the context of the I Triple E 1588 plugfest that\u0027s done at is PCs so that brings us to draft Alvarez Hamlin tick-tock-tick and so are you ready all right so this is presentation on synchronizing internet clocks from Alvarez mo Hamelin hi thanks to keep me from to present my work on also to the ISO because I am one of the touch fellow well this idea is is related with secure clock synchronization then the first thing that away to to to discuss is who is needing a secure clock synchronization next slide please then I I put just four types of applications related with with this problem in in different way but localization cryptocurrency aims and measurements my drive to do that was measurements because I am course in IP PM go next right then the ids is 200 morale is where the protocols works and in this graph we got here there\u0027re more or less an idea we have insecure secure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:15",
    "text": "insecure we have also frequency an absolute and we can see NTP okay we can see also PTP which is the IP protocol TC and my proposition sick this protocol at software produces a software related and this one okay this is not a protocol tcp s is provided with with hara then well then this is that the main differences then I put here a line like Artie T because imagine that the artist is there well you you couldn\u0027t assure a better synchronization and Artie T it\u0027s related there is also well here that in the resourcing big difference with sick here is a bit problem normally PSC when you are running in in one environment for hobbies not so good there is some some kinds of that about that next slide please then no okay what is the working principle ok ads as always a client-server Internet in the middle but we send one packet per second and we perform some statistical analysis normally ten minutes later the protocol should be should be and synchronize it in order to security we say net each pocket which means that we can verify that they\u0027re really that information insides good but the one of the problem when you sing the pocket is the time that you take to sing the packets therefore we we do do is in in some delayed fashion I mean we send the previous signature in each new packet well why we synchronize frequency essentially because there is some asymmetry in normality every read Gangnam back wrote has the different different but it could be possibly to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:16",
    "text": "something absolute but this is a next step okay it\u0027s absolute when you are in in the in the tens of milliseconds but if you want to be in the tens of microseconds absolute for now is not possible with this technique next slide and this is just to to show what happened with the minimum RTT because mostly of the software based synchronization method our path based on minimum RTT here we we got seven hours and we estimated the mean RTT in each minute and we design okay as you see the time the minimum RTT very very eyes has a lot of variation therefore it\u0027s not a good estimation just to use the minimum RTT what we do is we study the traffic statistically how how is working that LTTE in the statistical way and we found a way to retrieve some something more modest other than that next slide please but this is just cumulative distribution where we we show two cases one in every case there is a client in one Osiris and the second client can be in Buenos Aires in in another network or in Los Angeles illustrated in in the table the cartels q2 is the medium as as you can see is it perform very well in in in comparison with with a RTT next line well this proposition propose a secure synchronization around to microsecond roars okay it depends on on the RTT but 2070 milliseconds of our titties far away we are focused on frequency because the asymmetry of the paths and it\u0027s the client server this server distribution we we already have a 1 1 1 implementation in github for the secure part we have just the client we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:16",
    "text": "doing the victim because if the client detect that the problem with a secure signature we drop out the synchronization synchronization has different state we will do the same of onion in a similar way from the the server-side and well this is not implemented yet but we are doing the vision in few days well you you will be tough and my email if you has some question to perform yeah this is Yakko um I must admit I I looked a little bit at the draft on and heard your talk and I\u0027m a little bit confused about exactly what you\u0027re aiming to do and what you think is new here first of all let\u0027s talk about what you\u0027re able to do you\u0027re saying you\u0027re trying to get frequency to what scale how many ppb or ppm do you expect to get in how much time we know exactly given the distribution of the delays how good you can do and the ITU standardized doing fpb which you look at your distribution and do Matt you know you don\u0027t actually minimum get you don\u0027t have to get only minimum gate it\u0027s enough to have any weight someplace in the distribution which is more than what we find you\u0027d find over a smooth distribution and you can lock on that and it\u0027s well known how to do it so what are you looking to get well and why do you think you have something which is not known here when first I say it\u0027s a frequency because I I couldn\u0027t do to it accuracy is looking to do frequency in frequency it\u0027s 20 it\u0027s 1 ppm not less than 1 ppm so you\u0027re talking about 1 ppm yes so it\u0027s very very coarse resolution frequency because 1 ppm is considered and no it\u0027s not something that most of the applications that I know about maybe gaming it\u0027s good luck so you\u0027re looking to do 1 ppm ok and it\u0027s less than 1 we do okay you do the map this is 20 micro second in one minute it\u0027s less than but ok I agree with you that 1 ppm per Hertz is not a bit thing that you could do with MTP in my opinion but okay no this is not okay I can show you we can we can okay when you say secure when you say secure what is the threat you\u0027re looking at that this is secure against running I think it doesn\u0027t I don\u0027t want that any any anyone can modify the time stamps modifying the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:17",
    "text": "players yes a bit because they can in checks on some right formation to you but you know there are a lot of attacks which are not do not involve changing the time steps for instance simply delaying the packet a little bit along the way and things of that sort security and time is not an easy well what okay somebody\u0027s delaying the packets but it\u0027s no okay so what you\u0027re saying security against packet modification oh yes yes you know what let\u0027s take it offline I once again I\u0027m not sure what they were exactly you\u0027re trying to do and I think taking it offline and I think you\u0027d be happy to talk to yes okay go ahead hey Kyle Kyle Rose I do have a more basic request that I took a quick look at the draft and there appears to be a white paper for a for an algorithm that you\u0027re not using or that you\u0027re improving upon but no white paper for this this feels to me like it\u0027s in the realm of research and so I\u0027d like to see what I\u0027d like to see the the math and everything that this is based on before jumping into an implementation and adopting that into a group that\u0027s trying to produce actual software in sorry I am not sure if you are asking me it is some research or but what is the research that this is based on like why do we what what is interesting here and why and what\u0027s the you know and and how can I read about that I didn\u0027t find an informational reference in there about about what you\u0027re doing uniquely here so you\u0027re looking for more links to information about his research more detail about the research that\u0027s right okay thank you reeling from Jabra from Daniel Frank how does the security scheme cope with delay attacks yeah anyway so I would I think you did you you got some comments already on this document I believe I might be conflating it with another one actually but in any event thank you very much for presenting this I encourage everybody to read it and send any comments if you could send you know a little bit of it maybe send to the list a few links or some additional information like Kyle was asking for that might help people as well okay good true thank you very much thank you so the so with that we have come to the end of the agenda for today are there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:18",
    "text": "any other questions or comments no excellent so I do appreciate all of you hanging out for a a rather late session on a Thursday of IETF Week with this we will adjourn the meeting oh sorry one more thing we will work on a virtual interim meeting and I think we\u0027re probably looking at four to six weeks from now and we will send out some sort of a poll to get some some scheduling information together for that we have a bunch of open drafts it would really help if people would take a look and read some of them and with that is there anything else No thank you all very much I think "
  }
]