[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "[Music] Oh [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:20",
    "text": "Oh fabulous oh I should get that turned up okay we about ready to get started dear transport people we are getting ready to start here about another 15 seconds for people to find a seat okay I\u0027m Spencer and this is Maria and we\u0027re the transport area directors and welcome to TSP area and if you\u0027re attending something else you may be doing it through mideco you\u0027re in the right place for us though we start off with the note welt and just put that up as a reminder to people to remember their obligations as ITF participants so just to give a quick chance for people to bash agendas I\u0027m going to do a quick state of the area kind of thing and Mary is going to talk about NAT dev and then mark and Lars are going to are going to talk for a few minutes about what they\u0027re doing with synchronizing specifications and interrupt testing I\u0027m going to talk for a couple minutes about some but a proposal benoit has about semantic versioning for yang models and then open up a michael method to see kind of where we are as a as an area in that topic and then we\u0027re going to try to have 50 minutes of over my time after that does that work for everybody excellent so we\u0027re doing is we actually this like this over here because I\u0027m Circle level we always try to start off thinking the area review team without which Mary and I could not be as effective as we are as area directors "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:20",
    "text": "recognized than the people who have done our reviews and stuff like that I wanted to also mention that Alice Menken has been part of the triage team since we started the triage team and she will be leaving that and she is being replaced by some guy named Magnus so we appreciate we appreciate all of that and leashes Aang is also stepping down as a reviewer and I guess I just want to thank her for her service as well he just to put this up for a few minutes kind of what we\u0027re seeing with the working group working group status and just provide that as an update a little bit I will say honestly that I think I\u0027ve become between the spin bit and ECT one I think I\u0027ve become an area director of two bits this worries me greatly but we\u0027re not going to update the NomCom description next year I promise do you have anything you wanted to say but you\u0027re you\u0027re sort of that I especially want to mention that we closed a km yeah and finished all the documents yeah the best to do this is when you move the a huge air to be a chair of TSP WG and then and then you so those you can close the working group and then we just don\u0027t close the working group for a while will always always catch or change when we hand it to you we have a decent number of documents that we\u0027ve have moved someplace since IETF ninety nine and I saw that we just had two more pop out like this afternoon so as far as C so pretty happy about that I say always try to recognize people who finish things Brian Trammell asked me to do they asked about this here so the pen aware networking research group is as is one of the things that they want to do to create a catalogue of what not to do in path aware networking from the first meeting of the research group a proposed research group we had enough sad tales of why that won\u0027t work whatever that is to where we wanted to write those down so that people can learn from literally decades of experience and so that we don\u0027t repeat old mistakes but that we move on to new and exciting mistakes of her own was a joke I\u0027m I offered to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:20",
    "text": "that document started and asked for people to drop the names of things that are not good at good ideas as it turns out in path aware networking the one I\u0027m starting with is the triggers for transport effort a bunch of years ago and I was Bob co-chair so there\u0027s no judgement implied here but if you if you are aware of projects that should be on that list to help guide the research community please just drop me a note with with the name of the project and we\u0027ll talk later thanks Maria let you take over for a little while and do the net damn thing and here is your clicker if you need that it did so yeah it\u0027s a little bit confusing to look over there anyway so we had um some updates from the net Deaf conference already and previous Arab meetings because that\u0027s like one of the open source communities where our draft they read our drafts and implement stuff actually that\u0027s actually the right thing they read our drafts not the RSC\u0027s that\u0027s a problem but anyway there was a net of meeting last week in Seoul I went there I was actually trying to find somebody else to give this presentation but unfortunately there are only a few people who are at both meetings but there\u0027s actually more people who were the net deaf and who usually go to IETF means they just didn\u0027t come this time I don\u0027t know why so in case you don\u0027t know what the net is the net of is the technical conference for Linux networking so for the network staff of the Linux operating system they also so they\u0027re not part of like the Linux Foundation whatever it\u0027s not any kind of commercials really like building a community around those people that code in the linux kernel and and it\u0027s really mainly about the networking stick but also user space utilization of specific things in the kernel the net f is basically the the meta 2.2 which was last week in seoul is the fifth conference they organized so it\u0027s like and they do two per year so they only started like three years ago so it\u0027s rather new thing and they\u0027re still community building so it\u0027s actually kind of interesting to to interconnect with them and the next net def conference will be in Europe probably in spring but they might also they also considered actually to co-locate again or or move to Montreal together with the IETF so it\u0027s not decided yet but probably it will Greensburg spring in Europe actually [Music] oh sorry hmm so usually they have a very strong focus on performance say it\u0027s not really like you know what\u0027s the new cool "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "feature we have to implement in the credits rather like you know there is this feature how can we optimize it how can we do offloading how can we do the system first or how can we clean up the code to make it faster these kind of topics so it\u0027s like very much in the detail so it\u0027s all there\u0027s also a lot of topics around net filtering or VBF which is also packet filtering and using these kind of tools for optimizing your code other topics that were present at the conference is like also how to test your code there was a separate workshop about IPSec data center scenarios Wireless is also in topic where they are working on um say this is basically mainly the slides are there because these are linked so you can actually click on the presentations I don\u0027t think the slides for Netta for app yet but they will be up very soon so you can actually go through the presentations it will also be videos and there and I just picked like all the presentations that I saw it might be interesting for like this community there are more presentations and not all of them might be interesting for you but there were actually quite a lot of topics on congestion control this time and these talks were actually rather about the mechanisms than the implementation of the mechanisms so they\u0027ve been really interesting and I also gave an update of the accurate ecn implementation and trying to move that forward into the corner there were two talks about testing so that\u0027s like about software how to implement a state implementation so that\u0027s actually something that you can use in a broader scale not only on the news credit so that might also be interesting for you then there\u0027s of course always something about xtp so packet filtering there was this time and also last time there was like kind of an overview workshop so if you don\u0027t know what it appears and you want to learn it that\u0027s probably also a good reference but this is like one of the two big toppers like hardware acceleration of these kind of things and there is also a new version of net M which is now using x2p which is just a little bit faster than the old version was if you\u0027re using that um yeah and then I\u0027ve listed also a couple of topics it which are related to security which also could be interesting here but again focus on performance optimizations and that\u0027s it except you have any questions about it have a look at the slides thank you thank you could I ask mr. Nottingham to come up and enlighten us a little bit about the way HTTP to that has been doing implementation and specification synchronization we\u0027re hoping to make it we\u0027re hoping to make the transport area more aware of what\u0027s possible within at the IETF and certainly the one that I spend the most time talking to people about in this space is quick and mark is involved with that but also his own beginning HTTP do so thank you hello "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "it\u0027s a very generous pink box in this room there we go so um yeah your your area directories sorry thank you he\u0027s so he\u0027s the one with more than one slide our area directors asked me to very briefly discuss our approach to interoperability and and and implementation in HTTP 2 so oh there it is so we had an interesting situation we had an in to put document that we were chartered upon called speedy and it had a fair amount of deployment on the network it was in a couple of browsers and a couple of different server-side implementations so we already had running code we just needed to make that running code adapt to the changes that were made in the working group which were not trivial and when we got to draft for we decided to identify that as an implementation draft that was in June I forget the year what was that 2014 13 13 probably something it\u0027s ancient history now and we said that we wanted to do Interop on that in August at our next interim meeting so we were on a fairly aggressive schedule as interim meetings which was very good for for building a group of people working towards a single goal I personally as the workgroup chair was expecting maybe three or four implementations to show up and to get you know partial Interop it turns up we had ten implementations show up which was fantastic and within the first day and we had one day in her up and then I think was a three day working group meeting by the end of the first day we had Firefox interoperating with Akamai for example we had other folks talking to each other and and and that was fantastic that was those when I knew that this was a serious effort not just a bunch of people talking in a room we had interruptive ents at every subsequent interim meeting and we were testing the whole stack kind of in a very ad hoc fashion because we were developing a new version of an existing protocol we had the luxury of you know you can rely on normal HTTP you know tools and and and test Suites and whatever so you know point a browser a web page does it work if the HTTP 2 is in use yes no what kind of problems happen and that was fairly straightforward I we have a slightly different situation and quick which I think Lars is going to cover one of the key things was the ability to negotiate versions on the wire really allowed experimentation and an even early deployment one of the the fun things that a lot of people don\u0027t realize is when we did that draft for that that first implementation draft that we put out there one of our implementers decided to put it live on the network Twitter if you went to twitter.com and did the NPN for for whatever the NPN identifier that we used you would get HTTP to from Twitter comm which was pretty cool and kind of scary but and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "that just shows you know how you can you know use these mechanisms that we put in as protocols to allow this kind of evolution to happen and especially when you have endpoints put up not just during the interrupts but throughout the development of protocol and you can say well my endpoints over here we put them on a wiki page and you say okay well I\u0027m hitting your endpoint I\u0027m getting this error where I see this behavior and you talk through that and it\u0027s a great interaction from from a working group to your standpoint the best thing is is when you see this level of of engagement from folks you start basing your discussions and your decisions on the running code which is really what we\u0027re supposed to be doing here it\u0027s very gratifying any questions I I think that\u0027s just a high level do you guys have any questions is that what you wanted you can can you maybe go one step further like how you decided when like which version is ready for an interrupt and like how you went on a little bit more that\u0027s a really tough decision sometimes I mean you know we were releasing new drafts editorial drafts fairly rapidly I think we got up into around 20 ish and identifying the right places for for interrupts it really you have to take the temperature of the room and figure out okay how many implementations can come to the party how many are being left behind sometimes it\u0027s the right thing to do to leave a few behind you don\u0027t want people gate weighing forward progress of the group but you you you know you have to have a lot of coordination between what are we discussing as a working group and what are we putting into the drafts and then what is being tested for and and and and operated upon and you have to make sure that the changes you know if you make a big change you need to allow people time to digest that so it\u0027s really just a judgement call Patrick do you want I know Patrick wants to add something I think one of the key points of success was that we published a lot of drafts so there were discrete points so even when there wasn\u0027t broad agreement on what an implementation draft was we had strong versioning and there weren\u0027t any problems in the field so it was very typical for there actually for an implementation to carry two or three of these drafts at a time and we just look for the highest one that that overlapped and there certainly were ones that were tested in the wild that were not not marked implementation draft but because we were shipping them as IDs anyhow not just living off of an editor\u0027s copy that worked okay yeah and you\u0027d have cases if the interrupts where this person beyond 15 and that person beyond 16 and they\u0027d be oh well here\u0027s my 15 version the code it would still work you wouldn\u0027t have you know problems because of that it was good let\u0027s move on and then great scone at the end again and now he bets Laura Sager to talk about a protocol which hasn\u0027t been transferred protocol which has not been tested on the live internet yet as far as I know hello I don\u0027t quite understand why we have both mark and me here I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:22",
    "text": "could have done this all and I could have just said this said said there give me a beer - oh I can see my slides here so that is quick so so next slide which is my last slide yeah but it\u0027s so busy we\u0027ve been I mean Mark\u0027s been involved with h2o and he\u0027s also chairing quick so we basically learned from what h2 did quick turns out a little bit more complicated than then h2 right so but we basically have the same we have - same idea that we\u0027re gonna has worked for h2s we\u0027re gonna do this - we can have a sequence of internet drafts in our case actually quick is a set of four things that we call the base drafts and we try to have them progress at the same number so we\u0027re we\u0027re at l7 now one of them was at O six for a little while because we forgot to click the button but the idea is that they all they all sort of within a few days of each other they move versions even if there isn\u0027t a whole lot of updates for some of them just so that it you know people have an easy way to identify the stuff um and pretty much and in a pretty ad hoc fashion for the last year we sort of blessed - so far as what we call implementation drafts and I think it was all five which was about six months ago and then we did Oh seven which we interrupt at this meeting and what the editors copy is always sort of ahead of the of the implementation - but that\u0027s fine and I think now the next one is probably going to be Oh 8 so we\u0027re going a little bit slower because now the implementations are actually they need to implement a lot of text that\u0027s been written and it takes a little bit longer so we\u0027re doing three a year so far what roughly say I don\u0027t know we\u0027re going to keep that up we have too little data we have a wiki page for each of those implementation drafts that actually tells the implementers which parts we consider ready for implementation so four or five phases that you gotta be able to do a handshake that that\u0027s kind of a given we expect you to be able to exchange encrypted stream data which is already quite a bit of machinery you need to put in and I think we wanted a stream to be closed not the connection so there\u0027s a little bit so there was not very well defined what did what these things meant specifically the closing part many people didn\u0027t quite know what they were supposed to implement but at least sort of the the the handshake and the stream data actually worked pretty well and now we\u0027re preparing for implementation draft three and we\u0027re gonna just this meeting talked about who\u0027s going to hold a pen to write the wiki draft for what is required there and we are increasingly getting more rigorous about what we expect from an implementation so this time I think we at least discuss that there\u0027s gonna be a whole lot more that we want people to do in Melbourne but we\u0027re gonna order it so that if you can do everything you if you go down the list you you can be sort of assured that at least everybody will have the first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "things on that listen and maybe as you go down the list there will be fewer things that everybody has implemented but that\u0027s okay we are also discussing to increase the cadence of these interrupts we\u0027ve done six a year because we do three meetings at the ITF and three interims um and that turns out to not be enough at the moment because the coding has really started in earnest um so we are looking to do virtual interrupts meetings I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s gonna be once a month or once every two weeks or maybe once every week where we say Monday is implemented a and if you are want to join the slack that we use to coordinate this other people will be on at slack too without you needing to agree with them booked booked time or something that is and we\u0027re gonna basically run each other\u0027s stuff over the network and talk wants like and and debug jointly that\u0027s sort of the the goal here we haven\u0027t done one of those so we don\u0027t quite know how that\u0027s going to go but some people do this pairwise anyway in between the interrupts because most people actually also have public servers up so if you have a server implementation most people have stood one up in Amazon and if it crashes it restarts and there\u0027s usually some way that you could actually look at the log of that server over the weapons or you can just shoot a client hello and see what happens that\u0027s been very useful especially the automatic restart part I think is pretty crucial to get that right otherwise you\u0027re going to be able if you\u0027re going to log into your server a whole lot and we start for people and we sort of have a way which also evolved in a pretty ad hoc fashion as a Google Docs interrupt matrix where you basically say yep I could do handshake yep I could do data with you and then we sort of keep track of what worked and what didn\u0027t work between these implementations I think also for the future there\u0027s talk about automating this a bit more because so at the first Interop I think we had like four or five implementations now I think we had at least twelve and there\u0027s several more that are ongoing but they haven\u0027t shown up yet so it\u0027s gonna be extremely tedious in the future to fill that matrix without some support but that\u0027s what computers are for so we might think about some more integrated way to you know especially it opens up all the stuff from get up compile it run it have some way to declare success and and mark the matrix um so yeah that\u0027s basically what we\u0027ve been doing um I think it\u0027s working well um we\u0027re you know not using WebEx or any IGF collaborative tools we use slack because that\u0027s what developers are used to and there\u0027s a lot of integrations with other things that we use which is nice yes I have a question I\u0027m just three makes two mics I guess you mean you asked us to give this presentation for a reason right sorry so there was also this idea about defining some test cases at the last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:25",
    "text": "minute can you say something about that yeah so I mean bunch of implementations especially the ones that actually have you know teams of developers I get paid for writing that thought sort of code they tend to have really nice unit test frameworks and and it turns out now that we\u0027re looking at getting the flow control correct or the loss recovery correct and the condition control correct it\u0027s it\u0027s really useful if you have a way to predictably generate a test scenario with a lost pattern and maybe a delay or something or if you want to get fancy little a spike or something like that so that you can actually repeatedly test your implementation against another implementation under a you know realistic but repeatable Network condition um and so we\u0027re trying to think of how what we can do there I think ekor has some code and I have some code and we might cobble something together along some timeline but um I mean everybody sort of has that infrastructure or needs to get that infrastructure at some point and and this is not necessarily well it can be a competitive advantage with some people but you know this is not such a big hurdle to share some of this hopefully and I just anyway ask another question you can\u0027t really go to the mic and do you have an idea about like how many people show up at the interrupts or at the hackathon and they actually stay for the meeting yeah so the at the first so this week we had I think around 20 people but it\u0027s kind of hard to tell because we overlap with TLS quite a bit at the moment but when I looked at the hackathon registration and that searched for straight quick I think I had like 17 or 18 people and we had a bunch more that were remote on slack during the inner up and at the first meeting we had maybe half that we still had a pretty significant number at the first one already module do those people stay for the quick session ah just come for the interrupt I think most of them stay however that\u0027s sort of my feeling I think I\u0027ve seen echo around so this nitro sauce I want to show what the webpage or central location to find the effort was so was doing whatever I could you speak I was looking for the central location well where you were gathering all the information for the effort for the current quick effort that you were talking about so we heavily heavily use github right so I stumbled I googled obviously quick to see what it would give me on where your effort was so the github site is number 10 number one is Wikipedia but funnily enough number three is how to block quick from Palo Alto Networks so if anybody from Palo Alto Networks is here can you be ranked at a slightly lower you know in a block it is not the first thing you want to find when you do it I\u0027m pretty sure that page is about the Google version of quick so no Palo Alto Networks is proud to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:26",
    "text": "block everything they block ecn they blocked here so in fact if they catch you trying to use TFO they\u0027ll blacklist your IP address so nothing works for the next ten minutes was that masked man you can tell me how our effort to interrupt will help with that I\u0027d be happy to know my name is Stuart Cheshire I work for Apple palo alto networks particularly defeats any attempt to i fall back because you can\u0027t fall back after trying TFO once because now you\u0027re on the blacklist and all networking is dead so it completely defeats any attempt to even fall back from these things you hit a you hit a nerve they try even harder but that\u0027s not why I got up since Mira asked about you know the fraction of folks who came to that cut on and then stayed through the week if that might be interesting to talk about sure the different set of people we get an interim as opposed to a full meeting you know so one point on on the stage for the week part which I think it\u0027s important so I think we have people show up because we do this inter up here on that otherwise wouldn\u0027t come specifically we have some developers that are in teams where you might see you know somebody is a little bit higher up the food chain participate but we actually get the people who write the code that maybe otherwise wouldn\u0027t have come to an ITF and so that\u0027s kind of a nice sort of side effect I think of having some of these these inner of events here um whatever what was your question um you can I remember all different different constituency yes so we have I think pretty consciously so we\u0027re trying we realized that if we only ever met at the IDF\u0027s we would not be done in ten years so um the the these venues do not allow the discussion to happen at a pace that um we need in order to we already moved the milestone back six months and and you know if you\u0027re a transport working group that is not a big deal nobody would even blink an eye we had people email us because that it caused a significant product delays and we know it increased investment in the technology and that is not a little thing for many people who actually want to run this in production and not you know keep seeing draft revisions so in only in the inner rims we have about fifty people and the active participation fraction is much higher than at the IETF I would say that at least like two-thirds in the room are actively participating it\u0027s still not a hundred percent which is not making me very happy because we we still need a over provision in the room and we still have people that that don\u0027t seem to actually actively do anything while they\u0027re there which kind of makes me wonder who they\u0027re working for and how that can be because you know we go around the world "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:26",
    "text": "quite a bit but it\u0027s it\u0027s certainly better plus we do two to three days of working group meeting where we really have an in-depth discussion on a lot of stuff and we do one to two days of interrupts before that so it\u0027s basically a full week and so we do three full weeks like that plus the ITF weeks every year yeah it\u0027s not just a winnowing there are though a number of very active participants who you only see face to face at the interims because it\u0027s just a more concentrated use of their time yes if I could do a quick ad interrupt could who is sign who has not signed I don\u0027t think anybody has because it\u0027s lying next to my computer okay one do I fuck up in twice when I was chairing and you put it there anyway that\u0027s totally on you I apologize sort of Brian Trammell even if I don\u0027t show up on the blue sheet um so this this is a a pretty cool new way to run a working group I think I have I have a couple of particular quips but I think that there\u0027s there\u0027s a trade-off space here and I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s the exactly the right point in the trade-off space but I get the speed now I\u0027m not here to talk about that I really like the idea of basically having sort of testing and then a car also mentioned at the the thing a continuous integration framework so it\u0027s like automate the test automate the Interop with a set of servers that are inside something that seems like it would be really useful for other stuff in the transport area especially because like so quick is nice and then it\u0027s nice and user space and you know I mean that the Travis or Circle CI script is gonna be like five lines to get a written server operate it seems like doing something like this in the transferred area in general for stuff that touches the kernel might be much more sort of a force multiplier for being able to do development like actually vagrant because I have a zero copy stack and you I need to run a VM so I can run the the zero copy drivers underneath it and and it\u0027s you know it\u0027s basically you just write whatever you would do and type into SSH you put a vagrant - see in front of it and it does it in the machine if it\u0027s not that big of a deal to do this with virtual machines would it be useful and I haven\u0027t I am just making shit up here but would it be useful to have some sort of like transport layer development tooling something either as part of the transport layer thing okay yeah no running walking protocol yeah but I think I mean so this is you know this is like I think the reason that it\u0027s you and Mark that came into own he did actually go get a drink Denis um that you and Mark came in here to talk about this is because this this is sort of like running a process code that we\u0027ve got experience within the app area that were you know sort of like through quick pushing down into the transport area and we\u0027re seeing what works from their development process and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:26",
    "text": "what needs to be tweaked so I think there were there might be area specific things that are done here um but you\u0027re right it might actually be a thing that goes through like is more for the whole IETF I don\u0027t know what you could do for you know when you get down to routing it gets a little bit more difficult and that\u0027s what the web guys tend to have pretty good testing framework yeah and and the you know in TCP we have n is to rate which is not quite the same thing but so we\u0027re trying to I think we\u0027re trying to sort of mark something up that would give us you know it may be exactly what we need for a quick or or you know some of that but so I am so not signing up to do anything more anything more general okay so if we can can run on your thing you know I\u0027m sure that that would be a good test for it but um I be already very concerned about our timeline and yeah and I\u0027m not trying to make I mean yeah I\u0027m trying to make any more work but I knew I was gonna fail at that so but it seems like there might be like I\u0027m a very big fan of sort of the running code side of the equation and it seems like there might be something that we can do take out of quick that can possibly make things work a little bit better in them I mean there is the packet drill I think it\u0027s called right yep the Google tool but and and people so I I think I know that Google has a very extensive test of packet drill cases that they basically run their whatever change they want to make to tcp against and if it passes that they can be reasonably sure that right mess it up I don\u0027t think we have anything that\u0027s open like that so here\u0027s there\u0027s you could it might take some work but there\u0027s an IOT of open talk this morning on new gen which I know you about yeah yeah so it so the I think packet drill specifically or also moonshine doesn\u0027t work for quick because it\u0027s encrypted um you couldn\u0027t you couldn\u0027t think yeah yeah yeah right unless you are really really acting like an endpoint right that makes it a bit harder but you could sort of try and instrument the end systems to generate a repeatable sequence of packets you could if you okay let\u0027s take us offline but there\u0027s probably a way that you could make known Jen fake something so I mean that the exciting part about about quick is that it\u0027s actually running on time scale this is maybe an order of magnitude faster than anything else and transfer for us yeah which which kind of forces you plus it is the commercial interest in this is certainly higher than the normal TCP extension gets all of which makes it very exciting but all of which also makes it really hard to follow because it\u0027s it\u0027s not a small effort right so it\u0027s I think it forces all of us to act maybe more professional than we often do when it\u0027s you know quote-unquote just TCP it\u0027s like the rest of the line take exception to that characterization yeah Mike knew why he was leaving the room when he did me a cool I mean I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:27",
    "text": "wanted to quickly it like on the slides I presented privacy there was also one talk like the last talk under testing which is actually and eclipse based framework where you can have like a formal specification of your put a call and enable test against it so maybe that\u0027s actually useful yeah once we have one for a quick we can totally use that but I so no I mean all of those things are great right it but it\u0027s it\u0027s that all of them also require quite a bit of work and and the formal specification for protocol that\u0027s under very very heavy active development is not going to make that development go faster I think hi curry I use pocket drills well I use pocket drill as well but that wasn\u0027t what on stalker I wondered how we deal with the tension of trying to get other people engaged with quake and building things on it and understanding the dynamics of what\u0027s going on when we\u0027re designing something so very very complicated a it seems like the working groups two rules trying to get people in there and understand it and then build on it and we\u0027re also trying to develop it and that\u0027s a bit of a tricky one to balance yeah so in some sense whether the quick meanings at the ITF are almost that they there or many attendees sort of expect the tutorial on quick which this is not what it\u0027s for right but but it\u0027s so that you cannot move the needle on things so we use the ITF meetings like to get input from people that don\u0027t show up at the interims for example like like congestion control experts don\u0027t come to creek at the moment because it\u0027s too much about other stuff but they hang out in the ITF and so we can have a session and discuss things but you can maybe make progress on like one or two issues and I think we have like I don\u0027t know how many hundreds open at the moment so it simply doesn\u0027t work for moving the needles significantly on anything that matters so we have to be very selective about the topics we pick and it\u0027s it\u0027s mostly sort of keeping the rest of the community that sort of has an interest but is that can\u0027t keep up with the pace right I mean every morning when I look click on github write the entire like I know how many pages it\u0027s all just what happened in the base drafts repository overnight because I\u0027m in Europe right and I\u0027m like you know read read all and move on it\u0027s so it\u0027s it\u0027s a full-time job to participate in quick no question yeah and that makes it hard if that\u0027s not possible and it\u0027s a challenge for how do you how do you not lose the part of the community that can\u0027t afford that but might still be able to make valuable contributions I don\u0027t think we have any smart ideas we just need to be reminded maybe sometimes too well slowing down is a problem but maybe focus a session on a particular topic of interest or broader interest or something like that I think that helps and thanks for trying and I didn\u0027t like the meeting room experiment that where we only saw backs that was a really bad experience the meeting room experiment we did with where we only saw people\u0027s backs since we\u0027re chatting amongst friends here so I disagree because so it did it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:29",
    "text": "did try to recreate so if the goal of the meeting and so we try to have a meeting at the ITF like we have a dinner yeah so I think for the people who are sitting around the front table and they start chatting and not using their names they actually feel that the the pace is better right things move faster you can have a discussion you can actually make some progress for everybody else it\u0027s way harder to follow yeah because nobody says their name there isn\u0027t a mic line remote attendants probably especially struggle boy I think he\u0027s exactly what remote attendants you sorry what is the goal of the meeting right it\u0027s the goal of the meeting to push development of the protocol forward in which case I would say the remote ik that the room experiment actually works right is the purpose of the meeting to allow the rest of the community to catch up or understand more about quick in which case you have to have a slower meeting and have more formalism then that totally doesn\u0027t work and I\u0027m actually so I like the interims a lot I frankly think we could almost almost stop meeting at the IDF\u0027s because please don\u0027t the only progress that the ITF get made outside of the meeting room but maybe in the long run it works to interrupt you here because there are a lot of process challenges we have as quick because it\u0027s a different kind of working group then many other working groups but the one thing we would like to concentrate here is actually how to move along with the implementation how to sync that up and how to make quick work progress on that part so I mean I really cause there\u0027s so much implementation interest from people who want to deploy this at scale in quick but we need to move fast I don\u0027t and moving fast requires that the meetings to to use the meeting time as efficiently as possible and in my personal opinion is that if that means that a casual bystander cannot follow any more that\u0027s fine I actually just wanted to propose to move on to spent a slight because I\u0027m going go and do you have anything that\u0027s related more on the implementation side of things or is it a general quick question because then we might take it offline the more glasses general process yeah let\u0027s take it later please [Music] yeah so the last thing I wanted to be sure to do and we\u0027ve tried to leave some time for open mic things and and stuff like that with a group but I wanted to put this in front of the transport community and let me just ask a couple of quick questions doesn\u0027t I don\u0027t care I don\u0027t care why you\u0027re there but how many people here go to hackathon okay so I\u0027m seeing about eight something like that maybe and I don\u0027t care on what but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:32",
    "text": "how many people here do anything on yang are you a small a small elite team I think that David and maybe somebody else so I wanted to talk about this Benoit Klaus who is the outgoing management side yeah ad and he gave this presentation about this to the isg at the retreat in in May and this so this is a proposal but this is this is kind of what Ben was trying to do in the world of Yang the reason I want to bring this up in Mary and I decided to I had this section a long time ago but it turned out to be a really good timing with Dave org talking at the Thursday he invited speaker series about open source and stos and I would encourage you to check that out when it\u0027s available me deco which is probably pretty quick so this is semantic versioning and structure fries IETF specifications and the problem that but why is dealing with is the yang specification stay in active development potentially forever but certainly for a while but they need to publish new model versions more often than we could publish RFC\u0027s so the idea that he\u0027s working with is that the working group controls the structured document and the version control is positive the ones that I know about or github but it you know it doesn\u0027t have to be that but something like that and that they do version numbers that are three levels major minor patch nothing revolutionary about that so far where it starts to get kind of interesting for IETF folks so if you\u0027re thinking about nature version bumps are basically obsoleting the previous version minor ones are updating the previous version and patches are fixing the current version the previous version and where they started to be interesting was conversations about well what does it take to do either any one of these levels of changes what Benoit was talking about it at the draft which you know you guys have the link so you can check it out but what he was talking about was basically that the you know major revisions would require IETF consensus potentially minor revisions would require working group consensus in concurrence with the ad which basically gives the ad a chance to say you know that\u0027s really you know that\u0027s really a major version change and requires idea of consensus or basically that patch level version bumps can be up to the EO up to the editors judgment with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:32",
    "text": "working of chair the idea is that you publish whatever version is necessary whenever you need to publish it but you don\u0027t publish every every version that you do as an RFC and like I say I\u0027m not telling you that they\u0027re doing this today I\u0027m telling you this is what Ben was thinking about the world young and wanted to put that in front of the group to give you a chance to think about something that is bigger changes than we\u0027re talking we\u0027ve been usually talking about with the way we do things around here I also echo the thing that the experience that Mark and Lars were talking about with the number of people that get involved when they when there\u0027s a way for them to get involved as implementers one of the things that Dave Ward talked about with the iesg this morning and again during the Thursday speaker series was that you know the hackathon is the fastest growing part of the IETF right now so you know I think that part of that part of the reason for that is what well our work we\u0027re talking about which is you know you\u0027re giving people who are implementers not specifiers but implementers an opportunity to help and that just gives you a lot more resources that you didn\u0027t have access to the way we the way we usually do things around here so like I say I wanted to put that in front of the group and let you all think about it I know some of you are working group chairs but most of you or many of you are in trance really working groups and to let you all be talking about what might happen in your work you know if working groups where you\u0027re active as well because not everybody in here does quick right now yes so basically the reason why we\u0027re telling you this is because we now want to open the floor for maybe other working group chairs or participants and see like maybe you have some other activities where try to align your implementation efforts closely with Austin ization efforts or you might think about how to align your work in your work and group closer with implementation efforts right now and can give us feedback of anything that you\u0027ve seen today is useful for work well your working group as well or wouldn\u0027t work for your working group so we can figure out if there\u0027s a general guidance we want to follow here in future all the chairs line up sorry I didn\u0027t realize it was mandatory so historically is al here how was here okay historically an IP p.m. we\u0027ve I mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:34",
    "text": "we\u0027ve done interrupts of the of some implementations of the metrics but we try for the base metrics to be basically two steps away from the implementation right there\u0027s the metric definition which can be implemented by one of a number of methodologies which can be implemented by one of a number of protocols and it\u0027s only if protocol methodology and metric line up do you have comparability so that\u0027s historically that sort of things that have been under the framework yeah and you know amp and T well one of the things that we\u0027re doing the registry is to be able to pull in other methodologies and implementations for a given metric that may not be able to be sort of interrupt and calibrated to within the tolerances that we\u0027ve had for our amp and T lamp right so less and latency for example o amp is designed to get you many many many significant digits of latency and most people who are dealing with sort of like layer three and later for network Diagnostics or layer four and and layer seven network Diagnostics they just ping stuff right so there\u0027s they\u0027re much greater tolerances on that one of the things I think we\u0027re going to need to do when we get sort of our initial registry done which will be I think there\u0027s a milestone in there I don\u0027t believe it will fix it when we are making with it next big milestone update is we\u0027re probably going to have some framework for doing calibrations so testing in and off is not really what you\u0027re doing in Medford definition in IP PM you\u0027re really doing sort of calibrations it might be interesting to do some sort of calibration framework like those are automated testing of certain things okay well set up an environment a test environment we\u0027re gonna use three or four different ways to do you remember ecology the same metric and see what the tolerances are that might be interesting beyond that I\u0027m not sure how a lot of this applies to high ppm I can keep talking until the apertures get in mine so also an opportunity for people in other working groups to be thinking and if you don\u0027t have a thing that you are ready to share with the mic yet like I say you\u0027re invited to think I should also ask if there\u0027s anything else if there\u0027s anything that the the transfer area needs to know that you\u0027d like to share in here and so we\u0027ll just kind of move into our open mic time for the last few minutes that we have together here anything that the ABS need to know anything that the community needs to know well since you\u0027re Spencer Brian "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:40",
    "text": "carpenter and I was actually thinking mentioning this point in the interior meeting but they ran out of time he I couldn\u0027t marry I might guess what this is about it came to my attention that we have an eye on our registry with 256 slots in it that is about 2/3 full and which is in the dreadful state of disrepair right it\u0027s the registry for protocol numbers which kind of falls halfway between interior and transport since most of the entries in a transport protocols and I am not volunteering but it really seems to me that it needs a cleanup it has an trees in there that are assigned to well there\u0027s one for example assigned to answer and a brown merit as far as I know he left Merritt before I came to my first IETF it has one assigned to Craig partridge which he assures me hasn\u0027t been used for 25 years or so and I could go on there\u0027s there\u0027s a lot of obvious bugs there are assignments to Jon Postel and there with no documentation I don\u0027t know quite how it can be done but I feel that we owe it to descendants in this organization not to leave them a registry which is in such a mess in such a crucial point in the protocol stack so if somebody really feels the urge to help with this problem it would be good for them to speak out an excellent example the other thing that we need to know Lars I would not disagree with my former is gshare um so I think this is not useful specifically because the amount of effort it needs to actually verify whether something is still in use out there this is is a lot I know because so we just did it for for a transport port for UDP 443 which you know somebody asked hey how come the for that quick might run over is actually assigned to some gentleman from mosaic um so it\u0027s fine in the 90s and you know never reclaimed and then that\u0027s fine and so we actually went through the trouble of contacting him and he\u0027s still around and then after explaining who we are he actually transferred the port to the isg but it took like four months right and that was actually something that might even matter at some point but yeah can I interrupt yeah I told you I\u0027m agitated say for the ports for the system port so we actually are about to clean this up and like and we don\u0027t plan to run after every session separately we try to do this a little bit more efficiently and let\u0027s see if it works and I would like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:40",
    "text": "to run that part first and then we can probably talk about the protocol numbers again but as it might actually be more the end area responsibility for the protocol numbers anyway yeah I worry about my approach with you : Perkins so its first afternoon so and I\u0027m tired so I\u0027m being cynical but I might say the more productive conversation might be whether we should mark that registry as closed since we can never deploy anything else we got anything else I will if not we will give you two minutes of your lives back thank you very much for attending and we will see you in someplace called London is there anybody you didn\u0027t sign the blue sheet yet please come up [Laughter] "
  }
]