[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:35",
    "text": "Hello. Well, it's time now, so Welcome everyone to the IETF Madimas, session for this, IETF 119. In Brisbane. My cell phone, Carlos Sonja, and Carlos Bernardo's remote, sharing the group, So As usual, this is an IETF meeting. And, as such, please be aware of their nod well and, the policies in effect that, apply to these meetings. So As a reminder, when you participate in these meetings, you are following the IETF process and policies your contribution will be covered by the applications that are on or controlled by your sponsored, but you must disclose that. In advance, the participation or attendee, your knowledge that, written, audio and video and photographic records will be made this meeting, the information that you provide will be handled in accordance with the pro prop prop IETF privacy statement. And please treat, your peers respectfully. Imperfectionately. You have any further questions, you can refer to the different BCPs. On the screen, Again, this is intended for a virtual, in professional collaborations. So we will be following the ITAP guidelines of conduct."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "The anti harassment policy the anti harassment procedures, and you have any concerns please talk to the ombudsman. With, in a confidential manner, we will maintain a con and and preserve an environment. For, treating everyone with dignity, decency, and respect So please do not engage him in your harassment tour hostile. Discussions This is, going to be recorded with me to go. So please log on to the tool. You have the QR code, for local attendees so you can use your phone if you want to have a in person, attendance. If you are using the full a client, We're going to be recording your attempts through through there. And please do not share your audio and video unless you are actively participating. We have here the the links to the agenda, the me to go and other information, if you have any questions, please refer to the different links. Okay. So, before we continue, I'm going to make another call. Someone help us, take notes. This is going to be, Thanks. Thanks a lot more. No worries. We can do that. As long as you take some high level ones, we we can go through the recordings, but thank you very much. Appreciate it. So we have, some working group items that we want to discuss. We're gonna have presentations for the first two the MAC address randomization current state of affairs document. Which we believe is ready for publication. The use cases and identity requirements that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "probably ready for working group last call. Then we're gonna have some discussion about the, the informational, next to replace the the BCP that was put put as, the, one of the milestones for the group we'll also gonna talk about the liaison statement to ID of Medina and Radix So, starting from the first one, I think we, well, we're gonna have a presentation probably, we, we want to have the discussion right after the presentation, and Carlos will do the the update for the use cases and the entity requirements. We also got a a presentation from from Durham in case he doesn't connect is because it's 2 o'clock for him. So may be able to present on his behalf. We'll see if he if he shows up. And probably right after that, we we can talk about the business current practices. If that's okay. So Moving on, we received, another from the WBA which I'm writing here in in a few slides, in case you didn't see it in the mailing list. If you remember, WBA is, the institution that we've been liaison and talking to, for a while, notably on the open roaming discussions. And, We They are the ones that are basically in charge of the open rolling feather they gave some presentations. They made, liaison where they wanted to talk to us. And at the last, meeting, they actually came and speeding came to the ATF meeting and participating in their open roaming hackathon where they were analyzing the concerns that we have about leakage of privacy information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "and, identifiers that could fly and that could be picked up by by third parties. In this case, the the could be the network. Or or, It's some some other, third party. So They they sent us a desalination where they are sharing what has happened since And, Well, the first thing is that the the they have this work in the W ri x, drop where they are including normative fixed, fixed, fixed, regarding, And user privacy. To prevent the unintentional weakening of end user. Information being, shared to to third parties. And this, going on the on the radius, access except make messages. And they are sharing this, with both ourselves, the working group, Matinas, and Radix, So I believe there, there could be some other discussions in graphics follow-up on the on this very specific issue. To be precise, they have these recommendations and I think this is an important outcome of the discussions and the work we've had if you remember, we we were raising some concerns about this privacy leakage. So I'm going to just quickly read, WBA now recommends that the default identity provided policy. You should ensure that any correlation first in the radius access accept messages. Such as class attribute 25 and or chargeable user identity attribute 89. Are unique for each combination of end user and access network provider. And that they keys and or in a initialization vectors used in creating"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "such correlation identified should be refreshed at every 80, 48 hours, but not more frequently than every 2 hours. That our limit is assigned to permit the access network provider to perform autonomous troubleshooting of connectivity issues from authentic users that are repeatedly re initiating connectivity to the access provider network or and or permit the access provider at state entity. To identify a new session originated by an authentic user device at previously violated the open roaming end user terms. And conditions. In contrast to this default policy. WPA, WRIX specifications, describe scenarios, the 48 hour limit is required to be extended. For example, when the identity provider supports settle service requires a correlation identifier to be stable. Over an entire billing period. WBA has worked with the authors of open routing ID to the Internet, draft to update the draft to reflect this changes and you have a link there to the, to the draft, from Bruno Thomas. They are planning to communicate these changes to upper roaming identity providers, and, they are basically presenting, at Radix. So Once again, this is a positive outcome of the work that we were doing here. We're looking at network services and identification on the presence of, randomized MAC addresses. And how, the studies that we did and the the work at the hackathon and our liaison with the WBA has, already started providing some good results. And, I don't know if, Alan or someone wants to say something about Radix or or how that it's going to be taken From here, Yeah. This is Alan. The latest revision of the deprecating insecure practices document Radix. in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "Has some text about CLI that they've reviewed and said beach there. Their needs. I don't remember if it has those specific 48 hour issues or limitations, but I'll check. But it seems to be pretty good. And I believe It will be presenting at Radix and I've had a chat with some people. I don't know that it would be a RADx working group document, the open roaming 1, at least, simply because it's documenting open roaming, but it should be reviewed by RADx. Than the individuals and RADx. Would support it as an individual document an ADIP sponsor or something. Thanks a lot, Alan, for that update. Okay. So do you have any more, questions or comments regarding this, liaison. What information about the The document Alright. Alright. So seeing none, I'm going to stop sharing here. And, Next item is Carlos. Okay. Hi, everyone. I hope you can hear me well. You hear me? Okay. Perfect. So this, short update on the randomized and tangent, 18 address. So this revision number 12th just a very brief, interaction or reminder of what this this asset about. This is the property is basically about documenting the incident affairs regarding my career transition, and has been done in different STOs, and what has been and it's been done. By different vendors of mostly mobile, on my phone, but also desktop operating systems. Let me just just go into the current table of content, the table of content has change I mean, minor changes compared to the version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "was presented in the last ATF. Basically, we removed, the section on terminology that only had one one term that is very well known max MAC address, term. So we removed that. There was a comment from Met, as part of the reviews about removing the table that we have on the current practices, We decided not to do that because, basically, we did that already removing it And we put it back based on on working group feedback that, Basically, working would felt the consensus was that, it was useful to have the current snapshot even Though this may change over time, and that's the purpose of having the the link to the gift card. So that's the the reason we we maintain that table there. And the rest has, is basically the same as it used before. Regarding the same look since the last IETF, we have, we have done, I think 3 or 4 iterations since last ATF mainly, we got very good comments from Buckingham from for Matt. From both, mostly related to ipv6, and the the way the the facility fire generated the the text that was in the draft anybody with, outdated. So we updated that. And, I think Bob was happy with the changes, but, I guess he's their support. If you can come in, if there is something that, Should should remain an address from our side. I hope this is the case. And, also, we received very good commercial net and, we address, Most of them, The only one that, the only two that not addressed was the title. Of the draft because I think this is also discussed in the past that is in the charter, and the tables, as I mentioned before. And we also got some additional comments and we believe now that the document is really really for going to the next step. So to IT plus colon, final publications, hopefully. So any comments, questions?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "If not today, Concado. So I guess we probably should, request obligation right after the The meeting, right, Okay. Eric Van, the, director in charge of madness, So I would be so happy to accept this duplication. And start the process for going to the ATF last call and the ISG ballot. It has been 2 or 3 years now for this booking group. So it's time to to produce something that could advance. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Thanks, Eric. Alright. So, so we'll advance the the document there. Okay. So if we have no more, I don't think we have Jerome on the online. So We're going to or or leave. You No. Yep. So it's, barely for both of them. Alright. So so I'm going to present on their behalf. I guess Just Bob? on the last one. So what what are you What's happening? Are you into working group last call, or what is the state of the previous document We're going to advance to to work to well, it's already on working group last call. So it's in working group last call. Yes. Okay. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Okay. So coming back to the, to the Medina's use cases document, So Well, here here is an update, or showing, the history of all the different updates. That the authors have been, addressing As you see, as of the latest versions, they they are they have been addressing the the different comments on the list. The the document has been stable by for a while. And it's, probably, getting ready for for working group last call to They included some specific details about the the changes we don't have to go into all the different details. For how they were addressing each one of the comments. Just going to just keep the specifics And maybe this is Yeah. So Again, the the the document provides these use cases, with the details about the the trust degree The type of network administration, the services that are expected and the network support, expectation that is given. So this was a baseline that that we used to to talk about the the different solutions. And, originally, the intention was to take this, best line baseline and then work on current practices, which as, as we know, we it hasn't been very well, we do we don't have that best come of practices, but we have had some, some good results and discussions with the WBA regarding existing solutions. But, as of the latest discussions, the solutions that were documented"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "that were taken out of this document because we believe they would be moving to to our best common practices document. Are now in the limbo. So some of the suggestions were to bring those, current solutions as an some informational annex to back to this document so that the assuming that we are not going to work on a best, BCP document, we, we could still recuperate the documentation that we had on on those, solutions. So Trying to see here this document, this this, talking about the the the last changes that we're doing about the requirements. But, I guess what I just describe this section 7 here. Existing solutions was removed needs to be re added as an annex. And the authors are asking, should we go for working group last call? So I think this is this is what is, remaining for this document I personally don't know not hat, believe that it makes sense to to bring back those sections as a as an annex as an informational annex. Just because it it was a good follow-up from from the table. Showing what are the existing solutions that are, that are there in the, in the field. That can be used to address the different use cases, And, without providing any specifics, I think it's good to have them in the in a in an Information Atlantic. Potentially referring to the work that will take place now in in Radix or at the WPA, for instance. Don't know if anyone has any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "any comment or any feedback regarding this way forward. Neryk, no specific command on the draft itself. At some point of time, we will need to ship it. As well for this document. Peter was kind enough, and thank you again. To be the shepherd for the other one, but for this one, we need one. And there's also an opportunity for somebody in the room with never taking a a no to ship or or a chair position. To try another time a bit better. The processes, it's basically 2, 3 hours of work. To be done within the next weeks. Thanks. Keep Okay. So assuming that we go that way, there anyone that could following to you right now, or or you prefer to Discuss later on, with the chairs up to you. Okay. Okay, Peter. Thank you very much. Peter Yi. Thank you very much. Okay. So, I mean, we have I don't know We have all the people here since this is a likely attended meeting what do you think, should should we call for support for a working group last call here at the meeting or maybe on the mailing list on the meeting with the to do is right Okay. Okay. I need to do it right now. It would be a 3 weeks. Courses during the meeting. So either we do it right now, every week, 3 weeks, wait a billion Easter Monday."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Anyway, 2 weeks. Okay. So I don't know if, people remotely heard, but, the suggestion is to go 3 weeks, starting from now or wait after Easter and then do 2 week, working group last call. In any case, I think, well, since the authors are not here, we need to provide them this feedback. So probably it makes us do to wait. Okay. Referring off. So I think that's, it in that is the last contribution that we have for this meeting, there any other Business or any other question that people would like to discuss. For now. Okay. So keeping up, you very much, everyone. And, Enjoy the rest of your afternoon or your morning, Carlos. Do you expect we we can discuss in the mailing list, but, Pali. We don't need a a physical meeting with We will consider strongly not to meet. Fiscal embargo. Thanks, everyone. Thank you guys. Bye. Thanks, Carlos. Bye bye. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:14",
    "text": "Thanks, Anna. Sorry. 6 minutes. Slides. Okay. I'm done. Okay. Thank you."
  }
]
