[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:08",
    "text": "[Music] hello everyone welcome to interior light today yes so thanks all for coming this is in theory at ITF 104 the node well assume or I must know by heart like this time of the week so keep in mind that everything you say is on there ITF rules and we are we have to comply to the ITF only season procedures so as a reminder minutes are taken I mean the meeting is being recorded your presence will be locked and the scribe please help describe to contribute the minutes you have to let the link to the etherpad so Ron Bonita thank you very much for taking the minutes but his also going to be presenting so if you can can we have some mother volunteer to complete whatever is needed someone else just for yeah the ten minutes when run is going to present oh thank you very much and if you can love your name on the ether pad it\u0027ll be appreciated thank you so blue sheets are going around maybe not takers decided and Michael can you help us with the jabber thank you very much I knew so for the jabber actually we have at the date tailor that has asked specifically to get his presentation at the end because he has a conflict on the agenda so he asked us to get a clue on the on the jabber so that he can run from there to here so if you can just say goo is starting I think is the one before him and then he just give him a heads up he will show up thank you so the agenda will give you the quick update from the church lights then we\u0027ll have the provisioning the mains are coming poly presenting this time the Sox protocol from blast then the probing interfaces Ron is going to give that generic multi axis convergence encapsulation Jing Tom will give them the GUI again it was moved to the end from request and this this one was from Dave black David black because he also has a conflict and at the very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:09",
    "text": "end we\u0027ll have Dave Taylor so a lightly different order compared to previous sessions but mainly to accommodate people\u0027s and see blood is arriving so perfect so any comments bashing on the agenda on presentation six Davis last so yes if we can give him a heads up when who starts maybe calling his name out or something all right so we have some updates the fragmentation considered fragile has been submitted to iesg for publication as BCP the other two documents that we have our generic UDP encapsulation int area so we\u0027ll hear the presentation and the discovering protein domains also is on the agenda for presentation we have one more announcement just a quick note draft carpenter limited domain has been updated and Brian asked for to post feedback on the meaninglessness he couldn\u0027t attend this time yes please thank you so the first one is Tommy Polly alright hello everyone I\u0027m Tommy Polly and I\u0027m presenting our updates on the provisioning domain drafts on behalf of my co-authors Eric and Pierre and David and Lincoln so first just make sure everyone\u0027s been paying attention keeping update I\u0027m going to give a quick overview of how the protocol is working and then talk about the things that we\u0027ve updated the things that we\u0027re going to plan to update and the rest of the stats there so what we\u0027re defining in this document is a new are a option for explicit pvd\u0027s pvd\u0027s are provisioning domains that were defined in the multiple interfaces architecture the re option provides a PVD identifier which is a cutie n pet name encapsulate s-- other re options that are specific to that named PPD and it may or may not be tied to the other information that\u0027s advertised on that network via DHCP and then separately this document also defines a way of fetching additional information about this provisioning domain this is available in JSON and it\u0027s retrieved from an HTTP URI and amongst other things it gives you the v6 prefixes that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:10",
    "text": "are provided by the PVD and that can help you detect some miss configurations on the network or help validate the configuration you do have just look at the format here is the current format from the document of the PPD option itself we have a sequence number to detect when changes are made we have the PBT ID itself and then it contains other RA options within that we\u0027ve gone over this before but just here\u0027s a different way of visualizing kind of the relationship of different pvd\u0027s that could exist on the network this is a complicating example to be exhaustive and all the different combinations and how things can relate from a client\u0027s perspective so in the first case let\u0027s say we have some arias coming from source address a I could have multiple explicit pvd\u0027s coming all from the same source address that have are named differently these can be related to DHCP if there\u0027s a legacy flag in the RA option marked so we could tell that these BSP options belong to all the information that comes along in this explicit DVD and that can be further related to any of the additional information we provide I could also have another source address that\u0027s giving me both dhcpv6 as well as Ras and those could also be linked and then I could also have any other source address that I get information from can be implicitly treated by the client house as a PVD even if it\u0027s not named so these are kind of like the ecosystem the zoo of all the different ways the client can detect these different provision new domains and each of these groups on the right are domains in which we would have separate DNS caches and the ways of using source addressing here\u0027s a overview of what we have in the mandatory part of the JSON registry we have a name we have when this configuration expires and the list of prefixes mentioned before we also have the ability to extend this and we list a couple of the optional attributes that can be added to this JSON registry so that\u0027s the overview as far as what we have updated since the last IETF we added a section discussing the use of DNS within pvd\u0027s a lot of this is already kind of implied by the PVD architecture but we wanted to make it really clear when you\u0027re using explicit pvd\u0027s dns configurations that you have must be used in an isolated way per PVD this helps you manage the split DNS scenarios that you may have one other thing that we call out is that you this is not meaningfully improving the trust of your DNS provisioning although so there\u0027s been discussion and it\u0027s been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:10",
    "text": "brought up here before that as we have more encrypted dns mechanisms like DNS over TLS or doe there\u0027s a desire to have some sort of authentication about the validity of these configs potentially you could see this as a benefit if you have a PVD that advertises a name and then as we are fetching the information we can validate the certificate and the at least the authenticity of this name that\u0027s being provided it\u0027s currently not done in this spec but if some of those DNS mechanisms like doe wanted to use pvd\u0027s to provision those DNS servers they could potentially extend the attributes in the JSON format to also have ways of saying yes and this indeed is my secure DNS server and some way of validating or signing this information so it\u0027s a tool but this document itself does not provide the end solution for that it\u0027s a stepping-stone along the way and there\u0027s also some asks for clarification and improvement of the rigor of our language in the IANA requests so we clarified the request for registries so the two names of registries were asking for our additional information Peabody keys this one is proposed to use expert review to add entries and then there\u0027s the PVD options flags which is the options within the RA the flags within the RA option itself and that we\u0027re saying will require standards action we don\u0027t expect that would need to be updated very often and that\u0027s much more important to kind of have locked down so that\u0027s about it on updates Eric actually gave some thoughts to the list about how we can improve some some of the uses of our suggested headers and stuff so if you want to summarize those that\u0027d be great at the mic I think we will kind of incorporating those other than that we have done Interop with this we\u0027ve used it for captive portal stuff and that\u0027s gone well we believe the documents pretty stable will incorporate this so we\u0027ll definitely want another Rev but once we do that I believe the authors are all looking for a working group last call on this in to get a nice serious round of review so thank you please share your thoughts Eric Cline let me just do as you as you asked I think I said for the inner are a header why not just leave it alone type the code already has to be 0 type could still say 134 we could say the checksum has to be 0 but we could also say everybody has to ignore it and then I was I also said I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:11",
    "text": "kind of liked what they did with the universal IRA option having JSON and see more options and preserving IETF sort of namespace and then also mentioning and or recommending ex - foo is contrary to RFC six six four eight right which says I felt not so you just want to get rid of that recommendation just scratch that yeah I don\u0027t know although what we would want to do for well so that\u0027s actually where the ietf prefix of things yes would mean other people could do other things i I don\u0027t know how that actually works with six six four yes so we\u0027ll do our homework on that essentially he\u0027s saying rather than having the reserve namespace be the one with no prefix and make people do X - for extensions take the IETF prefix for the document ones that let people do whatever they want otherwise and that\u0027s I think uh it it\u0027s a thought it\u0027s a good way to go we appreciate that I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s good or not but Michael Rosen so well I think this work is important I think it\u0027s needed I\u0027m a bit scared about if we have understood all the ramifications like how to do this and so on you were talking about you had done experimentation e captive portals yes is there so if I read the captive Porter we wanna find some description about what you have done what actual code you\u0027ve done you have a draft it\u0027s not in the core architecture drafts but it\u0027s referenced by them and it sort of crewmates an individual draft it\u0027s slightly blocked on this actually having that be a real thing but it does describe how we use PVD discovery to bootstrap cap deferral discovery and that\u0027s essentially what we did in our hackathon work okay those who was it was a hackathon project yes good also and what was it dislike I thought it was not this one it was a previous one okay thanks that you to go yeah all right so any other thoughts I know can we get people to commit to a review yes thank you you will will make some updates if you could check the new one anyone else how many people have read some version okay how many people have read the recent version alright so we\u0027ll pull based on your comments repost and then we\u0027ll ask for review what do we think about last call status after that what\u0027s your impression juris well so so far indeed that the document is rather stable and we have to assure our getting to the queue we had asked the the security Directorate for for comments and we haven\u0027t heard from them so that could be something useful two to three campaigns and feedback before before we go to to other stuff and then we have suresh on the queue so hey Tommy hey "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:11",
    "text": "thanks Juan Carlos that\u0027s like Prada pretty much what I want to talk about - so I sent like multiple reminders to the sector people the the chest has requested to review and I talked to Icarus also like it\u0027s Icarus like you know rolling off the iesg this week so I\u0027ll talk a little bit to Roman as well to make sure that this gets done pretty soon because it\u0027s been like I would think like its order of months like six months or seven months we\u0027re waiting for a review if I remember correctly okay so and so I\u0027ll just make sure this happens quickly alright thank you so much thanks in response thanks great all right okay thank you very much all right so I am glad and I\u0027m going to I\u0027m going to give you an update on our latest work on Lux v6 so in the latest draft we\u0027ve introduced the concept of Sox sessions this is exactly what you will expect you gather a number of requests under the umbrella of session and you expect that we expect there to be shared state at the proxy as well as at the client now shared state has been done since revision 1 of the draft but it was done on a per user name basis but multiple use cases have turned up and this seemed like like an elegant thing to go forward with so the first use case is tour now as you can see on this slide I\u0027m visiting Wikipedia I\u0027m looking at the web pages for dogs and cats now for various reasons tour gives you the single circuit per bar domain so and the way they do it in a way that the tor browser does this is that it encodes it\u0027s the bar domain in the user name field so it basically makes non-standard use of username and password authentication and there\u0027s also an option to change the circuit used for a particular site the way that this is done is that the browser starts using a different password telling and the Tor demon gets the hint and starts using a different circuit now our sessions are a very elegant way to handle this the next use case is shared credentials so let\u0027s say some someone has a couple of two different browsers running on their machine now if the two browsers are using the same credentials they are gonna have the same view of the token window so here we\u0027ve got X\u0026Y hexam I think that the window is took tokens once 100 and X starts by spending token 1 there\u0027s some time passes why has no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:11",
    "text": "idea about what X has done so it tries to spend token 1 of course the token is out of the window and it basically wastes 1 RTT be copper before it can read the request so at best we are gonna see occasional wasted ITT\u0027s on one client or another at worst one client can live lock another one so few X\u0026Y have similar aggressive workloads ever ex gotta head gotta head start and it got to spend it\u0027s tokens ahead of Y so here Y is only chance of of being able to spend successfully spend the token and have requests on earth is to be more aggressive than X of course if when talking about buying backlogs the clients using the same credentials can basically accept connections from that some other client was listening for and authenticated clients cannot make use of any fixtures that make use of shared state so we\u0027ve decided to move the the share features using making use of shared state from we\u0027ve decided to do it on a per session basis rather than on a per for user name basis now the the mechanism is rather simple so the client asks the proxy to create sessions or to tear down sessions and the sessions can also be torn down by the proxy whenever it feels like it either due to timeout or whatever for whatever are the reason now all of these options are part of what requests and authentication replies so the grtt between the proxy and the remote server plays no part in their timeliness so such sessions are rather straightforward so aside from the kind and next fields that all option options have we have a tag field which signifies what kind of session option we\u0027re dealing with as well as a option data an option data field now what these types are is going to be crystal clear after I go through the next few slides and the option data is only used for conveying the session ID so establishing your session is rather simple so the client places the session request inside its own stocks request it does the it goes through the authentication process if needed and then the proxy replies with a session ID the session ID is opaque session it\u0027s no big sequence of bytes and the proxy is free to place anything in it so it it can be just an integer it could place some information and sir and encrypt it and sign it anything goes now this first request is also part of the session that it initiated so the client is free to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:11",
    "text": "use of whatever functionality that requires the session so you can request a token window it can request the lesson backlog or whatever else now a subtle implication of this is that you cannot initiate the session from within a session since the session request since the request making the session request is also part of the session it initiated off for the request carry the session ID this completely bypasses authentication and proxy or replies with a session ok option now if the proxy doesn\u0027t like the session ID authentication automatically fails everyone if the proxy does not require authentication in the first place and the proxy signal set by including a session valid option session teardown is also easy so the client places the session tear down option and tells the basically Emma complete tells the server that the session is no longer needed and it can delete all associated State the proxy of course should maintain it should keep some kind of timeout timer in case the clients isn\u0027t friendly or the client crashes or whatever now we also have untrusted sessions so the session ID can easily be sniffed by a passive attacker and thus that the attacker can just hijack the session and bypass any authentication mechanism that are in place when a session is untrusted the client must authenticate every time it makes the request that\u0027s part of that session but the very same we with this very same credentials that it\u0027s used to initiate the session now this is a bit of an open question do we actually need this feature because my my general policy has been that whatever can be done by running socks over TLS I\u0027m not gonna handle in socks so I\u0027d like your comments on that I kind of lean toward removing this feature we\u0027ve aside from myths and other quality of life changes for implementers that we\u0027ve made in draft O six we also done some future proofing so now options have a 2pi length field so you can place whatever you want inside of them they are still limited by the next maximum number by the maximum options link so you can out not have more than 16 K of options inside the message but otherwise options have no individual options have no limit on their length so you can place certificates JSON dumps of the proxy configuration or whatever so if you this was done so that whatever other options "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:13",
    "text": "the IETF decides to standardize in the following years they should be able to the semantics behind authentication methods have also changed so socks5 stipulates that authentication methods can also negotiate some kind of encryption and that the data is encrypted now in order to keep backward compatibility we still allow them to negotiate encryption but isn\u0027t it is no longer honored by Sox itself so if you want encryption run Sox off or TLS over over some other encrypted tunnel and that\u0027s about it for me thank you thank you very much any comments or blood okay thank you okay rambha Menaka Juniper Networks is a very short sweet presentation probing IP interfaces by virtual function interface next slide okay this is an extension to probe RFC 8335 and probe is the utility it\u0027s used for probing the status of basically on numbered interfaces it\u0027s for pinging an unnumbered interface what you do is send an ICMP extended echo message to a proxy interface and in that message you identify another interface the probed interface the one that you\u0027re really asking about and the proxy interface gets the message looks for the status of the probed interface it\u0027s generally co-resident on the same device and answers and says yeah the interface that you\u0027re asking about is up-down whatever well in any event we\u0027ve had some success with it we have an internal implementation inside juniper of RFC 8335 and we have a guy Oh sooner or later that\u0027ll become part of our product we have a guy working on checking it into FreeBSD checking it into Linux but in any event as we were doing this somebody had a request right now we can identify the probed interface by address by interface name or by if\u0027 index the request was well I\u0027d like to identify the probed interface by virtual function identifier and Jen says well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:13",
    "text": "what\u0027s that well in some PCI environments that\u0027s a way to identify an interface it\u0027s kind of like a if\u0027 index just in a different environment so very short sweet draft we have a registry of all the ways that you can identify the probed interface we need to add another entry to the registry and that\u0027s it we just need it\u0027s a I could have read the draft to you while standing on one foot so not much to see here the draft is only one one you know five pager please issue a call for adoption and maybe we can get it through quickly do you want to read it now so everything just as a integral contributor here nice to see this RFC 8225 implementation could you tell so much which are using link-local only addresses yeah oh and by the way more is coming in praise of link local addresses we we believed the only reason people aren\u0027t using unnumbered interfaces or link local only is because you can\u0027t ping them this allows you to ping them micro rooms that you should not make their statements if you want to keep it short so I I know people who worry all kinds of worried about source address selection of the devices when they\u0027re making out I was going connections to whatever zone so there\u0027s a lot more than them pinging them but yeah this of course helps but how do you determine and and interfaces is up like this is just the highest status of the link exactly I have to okay you have no idea if you can talk to anything or if there is anything there is just that the driver sets that the interface is out that\u0027s all ping goes when you ping an interface there\u0027s no guarantee the ping came in that interface and there\u0027s no guarantee the response came back out the interface okay all you\u0027re doing is clearing the driver if the device is not going out that interface yes right yeah yeah hmmm okay so that\u0027s for reviewers that\u0027s for call for adoption yeah so any volunteers to review the document provide comments hey Fred Eric thank you thank you very much we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:16",
    "text": "zinc on the cube hello okay you hear me yes loud and clear all right great yeah so this is Jane I\u0027m happy here to present the introduce the draft on the generic multi-access protocols and this is incorporation with sorry would you mind getting a little further away from the mic it\u0027s getting too loud then okay okay how about now is it better yeah it\u0027s much better thanks okay yeah so so first talk about the motivation for this draft so previously we have been working together on this multi access management services I think the draft is almost finished and is right now going through this informational track in that draft basically we are introducing this new framework where we can support management across multiple access for example you can do pass adduction pass aggregation splitting switching and for that we need some kind of protocols to manage this process on the data plane in the framework we introduced three options and the first option is the layer 4 approach using multi pass TCP and later on we also add the multi pass quick and on the layer 3 we have two options one is the IP over IP tunneling with GRE which I believe there is some RFC that\u0027s already covered that kind of approach and we also introduced a new approach which is a light version of layer three encapsulation using a trailer base encapsulation method and so this draft is many to address this particular option because we believe that myself is a fairly big topic however this encapsulation method is standalone I mean itself can be reduced to scope I think one of the feedback we got in the last presentation in the ITF is that the MEMS itself is quite complex topic it will take some time to actually moving forward so the the and then there\u0027s adaptation layer so the a temptation layer is just to send these convergence PDU over individual radio net access network and then you can use different tunneling approach UDP tunneling IPSec and client net address translation and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:18",
    "text": "pass through so those are just existing methods that without requiring any additional protocols ok next slide and in parallel there is efforts happening in 3gpp architecture group si to trying to define a solution to support access traffic steering switching and splitting switching a steering which is somehow aligned with our vision for the amounts and this picture just showed one of the option to support a layer 3 aggregation using the Twitter based convergence method however at that time because the draft is still being defined a ITF in an early stage so this part of work also being considered in the technical report 2 3 7 9 3 if people interested definitely welcome to take a look but this part of solution has been a kind of pause a halt waiting for the IETF discussions so you know in other words there is also a need to define a layer three protocols to support multi access of multi pass aggregation or splitting so next slide so this is kind of a conclusions that I got from the at least er not yes basically in the PR there\u0027s two type of solutions one is layer 4 which is multi pass TCP at a time and then there is also a TS as a function that is sit at layer 3 or layer 2.5 right below the IP and at that time the discussion is that it needs the ITF to complete a draft and publish the protocols then the suite EP can actually refer to this this work so that is actually motivate asked to bring this to this particular parrot which is the generic multi-access convergence encapsulation protocol as a standalone draft and call for kind of interest and so if we can get it adopted a working group documents so yeah so that\u0027s kind of the other part which is in 3gpp we also feel there is a need to define a new protocol to support this multi access management yeah thanks like next one yeah so so in summary the problem that we try to address is that we are seeing that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:18",
    "text": "access convergence operation at the layer 3 is becoming very important previously this kind of operation is many support at the metaphor for example multipath TCP what he passed quick but those of solution typically have a dependency on the OS on the applications by supporting these factors in a 3-2 defeat traffic and currently the only way to use IP IP company by including this header information in the gie header like for example sequence number so so in this case the drawback is first of all there is i py p turning overheads and also it is very difficult to introduce because channel attack renews it for other purposes so it\u0027s very difficult to to introduce new field yeah yeah yeah we have a couple of questions so Suresh said don\u0027t do that okay instead a fresh road to me instead I said so the encoding rush from the driver the the mentioned 3gpp document is not a TS as he mentioned it\u0027s only a study item yes yes that\u0027s what I want to clarify it\u0027s a typo I think that yes so call a stage three work is actually if this draft finalized some solution we can develop an IETF is finalized before that the stage three work also called the ETS work it is finished then the solution can still be considered okay so one more comment from thrush here he says that it\u0027s not accurate to say that 3gpp work is blocked on IVF no I\u0027m not saying block yes nothing block I\u0027m just saying solution that the only way consider it in 3gpp is that because we don\u0027t define any IP protocols in fact rather than reference to ITF work so in order to moving forward with this particular solution in 3gpp we will need IDF to encompass so yes I talked about this encapsulation basically what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:21",
    "text": "we are opposing is that new encapsulation not using a trailer based encapsulation and this way we could add all the information at the end to avoid any IP IP tunneling and we also have the flags to customize information which includes in the trailer this is a very similar to the eyepiece AK es PA encapsulation where some information also at the end in the transport alright so next slide this is just an example how we deal with lingo podcast encapsulation also we can do multi packet of retaliation to improve the efficiency and indicate when the recommendation especially when the multiple access different mq sizes we can also perform fragmentation and the convergence we\u0027re and this is just show how that can be done with this trailer base it comes so in summary what we have seen is that to stop all the so-called multi-access convergence currently in ITF mam\u0027s of 3gpp a TS SS has been developing solutions currently in order to support aggregation we only have to approach one is at the layer four we can support either multipath TCP or multipath quick and the layer three it\u0027s basically using reusing the GRE header and using IP over IP tunneling so in this case we are focusing on layer 3 solutions instead of reusing the GRE header we are proposing a new convergence protocol or encapsulation protocol based on trailer based encapsulation and this will give us a flexibility to introduce enhance the features as well as why avoiding any kind of IP IP tunneling overhead and hopefully if we can get something done in the IETF then we can bring this back to 3gpp to have a layer 3 aggregation solution also being considered in the TS face so I think this is my last slide so I guess thanks thanks so questions comments um Tom Herbert have you looked at goo yes UDP encapsulation yes it as you said you don\u0027t want to be forced to nighty night Enoch encapsulation goo can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:22",
    "text": "do other forms of encapsulation so it doesn\u0027t force you into that model yes so IP over IP or any like layer for tunneling as well like UDP tunneling right so this kind of encapsulations is try to avoid adding additional header at the beginning at the beginning of the packets to avoid this kind of over hard so i understanding that UDP or generic UDP encapsulation is also doing something like that and why we see a lot of encapsulations using UDP that\u0027s because it\u0027s compatibility with a network if you introduce and IP protocol you have absolutely no compatibility on the network devices may or may not even pass it so it wasn\u0027t that we really wanted to do this in UDP it was more like UDP gives us the best framework and the most compatibility with a network at a cost of a whole 8 bytes so was it it\u0027s a trade-off that we\u0027ve made in a lot of cases so from that point of view I\u0027m not exactly convinced that we need another transport protocol ok so I think probably I should clarify it it\u0027s not really a transport protocol per se because if you look at the the framework in the both MMS and ATS essence they do have their own transport so in other words you could still do I P over IP tunneling if it is required depending on your network right so also you can do in UDP eternally like we have if we can go back to the slides 2 or 3 I believe there is maybe can you come in but go back to the slides too and we have storage in the queue slice - yes so you can see the way that we do this is that we divide into two layers the the convergence layer is really just responsible for aggregation and all those management purposes so there for encoding those additional information and then and the individual transport we\u0027re doing the UDP donnelly options if it\u0027s needed some time you don\u0027t really need we have been testing this over like a legacy devices by introducing a new IP protocol type or even just reusing the existing IP prototype fact most of the layer to kind of switch and then we have the IPSec tunneling or the other type of adaptation layer like like method so I guess terrifies that refer to our points of the transporting the UDP Ptolemais is supported okay so another "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:22",
    "text": "question why go with the trailer based protocol everybo-- everything else is headers is there a reason for that sorry I think it is trailer based GMA encapsulation why trailers there\u0027s a very very hard way in a host yeah so the reason we want to use the trailer is that if we need to give anything at the beginning then we have to do an IPO like eternally just like what we did with GRE right but but you don\u0027t you said you were introducing a new IP protocol so the IP protocol could just say or a new protocol number this just says this is the format you have this header before the payload so then the client in your header row yes I think what you\u0027re referring to is that you can also introduce any information at the payload at the beginning of the payload right is that what you say yes just like in it\u0027s a header right so you have header followed by Paila this is the common convention we have to hop around it\u0027s really hard to process that from my protocol processing point of view so unless there\u0027s a good reason keep stuff in the front and headers okay so I think what you\u0027re saying is that if if we want we can add the beginning of the IP header because otherwise we have to add another IP header to encapsulate this right so if we what the point is that we gonna add this information IP header and the payload that is actually violating the protocol stack because after IP header is right so if we go back to the last slide if you go to the last slides can we go to the I think there are some backup slides which show yes in this case so this is how we do this in the IP stack right so there is information being searched at the beginning of the data as well as the end of the data the whole point is right we are looking at the transport in this case we keep the IP header at the same and then then we just introduce the new information there right so in our case we really don\u0027t need so many information so we just add all the information at the end so this way the layer four header is still right after the IP header if we do something like ESP header at the beginning then it will be hard for the host process for the two if we wanna do anything back inspection then you have to add this offset right so so that\u0027s something that we want to consider but obviously we can also consider I mean if there is really a need to insert at the beginning of the payload we can also add that data paths "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:22",
    "text": "because the location of the ESP Trevon location of other trailers has quite a bit to do with what the data path has to do so on this diagram here the crucial thing to observe is the authenticated double arrow which is a second one under each of those that authenticated indicates that the receiver is running over the data covered by that double arrow and is calculating and is calculating a Mac a cryptographic integrity check if you think about how data path has to work you want to run get to the data path once so you want the receiver to go running down data path calculate that check and then the trailer shows up right right when the check is has been calculated you compare them and figure and figure out and figure out whether it worked now the what we have here sounds like a forwarding data path where you\u0027d like to know where you\u0027re going to send the packet as soon as you possibly can as the packet shows up and how you\u0027re going to deal with it without having to wait for the whole packet the show up and discover in the trailer how you intend to deal with it so long for for those didn\u0027t follow every detail here ESP is a bad examine allergy unless you are doing some kind of integrity check or other pass over the data that is required to correctly process the trailer CRC\u0027s in Easterner trailers for the same reason let me reply to their comments first of all the the the purpose of this trailer is not for deciding which paths to use so there is a separate compute logic to decide every each packet where they go regardless of how you do the trailer encapsulation the main purpose of this trailer is to carry additional information in fact for example sequence number when we split the traffic across multiple paths then we can perform reordering operation you get this from the trailer and then perform reordering and after this information and okay so at the sender you\u0027ve got quite the flexibility of weird where to put what because you\u0027re assembling your something the whole packet and everything else at the receiver the packets moving onward if that sequence number comes early it becomes easy for for an equipment designer say ooh this is the expected sequence number I can cue this thing up and pipeline the packet out and get off "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:23",
    "text": "my hands now as opposed to with the design here you\u0027re you\u0027re basically forcing a buffering stage even I mean the idea here is that the you have to get the whole packet to do the reordering you won\u0027t be able to process this packet regardless like if you just get a partial off the packet let\u0027s say you get first first part of the inbound agreement if the packets out of order you\u0027ve lost one round of the game and you must buffer to reorder however if the packet is in the expected order it is possible to dump it through a fairly shallow shallow shallow pipe and out of here now as opposed to paying storm forward buffer there are hundred designs that do this in this space and others if regardless if it even is in order or whatever then you still need to recover the whole pockets either remove the ESP header like here or because pocket you can send it out sorry I know hardware that does think you\u0027re claiming or impossible I think we\u0027re in agree to disagree Suresh had another question given that MEMS is not on the ITF stream and has moved to the independent stream is there any ITF work that will use MEMS I think that we refer to is the MMSE ITF but we do as I mentioned that we we do have the reference which we talk you must try to use this so the plan is that if we can define something here that we will be able to refer this as to 3gpp next release so thank you very much so we move now to the next presentation tom yep so can we give a heads up to they fell it just the other day Dave Taylor no no words thanks thanks yes thank you okay I\u0027m Tom Herbert I\u0027m gonna give an update on goo so we had some substantial reviews from Charlie Perkins David black Gary Fairhurst thank you very much there were very good reviews I think we\u0027re getting a lot of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:24",
    "text": "good feedback so most of this presentation will be responding to those reviews so I\u0027ll split the comments into two major sections I tried to extract the most operative comments so these are the clarifications and then next section we\u0027ll talk about a few more in depth so Charlie mentioned that we needed an applicability statement that is in version 7 now so please take a look one of the comments was how do we prevent middleboxes from filtering based on gue options or good data and I think the short answer is we can\u0027t in some sense anything we send in plain text is susceptible to middle box intrusion and middle box detection what we do though is we do say middle boxes should not look into the good payload or goo header we also say they must not modify any of the UDP payload and we have the ability to authenticate the headers from modification and for the most secure setups we could use DTLS over the whole payload or GU frame so would even be seen David mentioned that we need a reference to draft an area tunnels so we will add that in the next version okay we needed a normative reference to the gue extensions so sorry the car made from the bleachers dated black the draft interior channels isn\u0027t just a reference you need a reference and some you need a you need a reference and some discussion based on the content of that draft okay yes actually look through it most of the most of the things we covered already I think if you want there\u0027s a few things that aren\u0027t applicable we need a normative reference to do extension so there\u0027s a base go draft which we\u0027re mostly talking about here two extensions which is also in working group last call so there\u0027s a mistake in the last version of the draft that did not provide the right reference of where we pointed that out and there was also comment that we are lumping tunnels and encapsulation together so this may require just a bit of clarification goo is an encapsulation protocol and it encapsulates by IP protocol number so any IP protocol can be encapsulated in goop tunnels really are when we\u0027re encapsulating a packet IP ether IP that so this was kind of specified in the document and we do have a little bit of handling for both those cases so that might just be a terminology clarification thank or he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:28",
    "text": "has a question going first a bit like David I yeah maybe you need more a little bit more text explanation about it because I see the two aspects yes and I see you talk about two aspects but I don\u0027t see a clear separation in your thinking when you describe the two aspects I have different things I would like to check off in the two different ways so it\u0027s more than just kind of casting it aside and saying okay yeah so well I think they need definitions exactly what they are and then we can do some elaboration so therefore issues that I wanted to give a little more comment to the zero UDP checksum and ipv6 congestion considerations condition controls the wrong word and then the question about it GU being too flexible and extensible and then why proposed standard so UDP a v6 checksum this is something that has to be handled by all UDP encapsulations per RCA to 200 UDP checksum is always required for ipv6 however that was relaxed by RFC 69 3569 36 under certain conditions so the rules in goo and this might not have been clear but there\u0027s three possibilities one is use the UDP checksum for both ipv4 and ipv6 that\u0027s actually the recommended approach there is something in Google called a gooch exome this is in the Akoo extensions it does include a pseudo header so it is an acceptable replacement I think for the UDP checksum if neither of those are used then we have the fall back to we\u0027re using a zero UDP checksum without any checksum covering the IP addresses that is where we would talk about 69 36 being applicable so I think your point David was basically that we didn\u0027t have enough description of the provisions for going to 69 36 my so my thought is we\u0027d already did this in RFC 86 8086 for a GRE over UDP most of that should be applicable in this case so I was thinking about cut and paste yeah that\u0027s good I mean yet yes and and you got you got it right the the the thrust the complaint was a was a show your work complaint so it requires some design thinking although if you had although the go checksum should be should be incredibly useful because the goo checksum gives you an out from the conundrum that is causing zero checksum headaches elsewhere which is either you turn on the UDP checksum and it cost your pass over the entire data or you turn it off you traffic goes heaven only knows where and the goo checksum is is just is just a slightly larger head of header checksum there is one caveat that makes us interesting so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:29",
    "text": "UDP checksum works with net the gue checksum doesn\u0027t really work with net because we don\u0027t learn middleboxes modifying and we can have weight and and we can have a bug versus feature discussion over some fine Czech beer anyway so we have congestion considerations unfortunately this was miss named in earlier versions of the draft as congestion control goo does not have congestion control we were trying to go for congestion considerations this should be nearly identical to RFC 8086 where if the traffic is not congestion control we have to have provisions within TMC a traffic management control environment we should be able to apply the same rules in GRE over UDP so again I think that might be cut and paste from RC 8086 should be addition I forgot my Zacapa my previous times david again to give you and probably gory something else to look at because we\u0027re working through some say these issues i think particularly zero checksum with the genève draft in NV o3 so you might also look there for some useful text I just got finished working a review of that one so hopefully they\u0027re all all all UDP encapsulation should be kind of the same right they should be similar what\u0027s going to happen is that some of the requirements in 69 36 are design time requirements in essence 69 36 says oh it says put on your thinking cap and make absolutely positively sure you understand the potential consequences of packets going to the wrong place and have come up with the best you can do for this protocol to mitigate them so it isn\u0027t quite copy/paste but this book but there is some more design thinking involved okay plus one think about what you wanted to global only in a controlled environment if you make big cleanse or then write text to clearly explain why it\u0027s not just for a controlled environment so the the rule is I think if it\u0027s if you\u0027re using non congestion controlled traffic in a controlled environment here\u0027s the provisions to allow that do not use non congestion control traffic outside on the internet or externally if it is congestion controlled then by all means use it there is one difference here by the way I\u0027m not mean enough to try and get you to compose a sentence live in front of us so I\u0027m quite happy to totally afterwards because yeah I accept those different environments and you just need to be really clearing your applicability yep so and then let\u0027s talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:29",
    "text": "afterwards something yeah there\u0027s a subtle and 8086 also has the framework that you used to do TMC and non TMC and one of the things you can think about is whether to allow zero UDP checksum for ipv6 in the general cases possible to say that you do zero checksum only in a TMC ebin general you\u0027ve got flexibility the end ata six has the framework with both environments and and give you some idea of how to write the applicable these take me to figure out what\u0027s going on right so I\u0027m saying and most of that can be transferred was a little bit of design I\u0027m so glad I have the scars from getting adv six done they\u0027re actually valuable okay so moving on there was a question about flexibility and extensibility a little bit subjective but I will point out that there\u0027s two parts I guess to be inflexible or extensibility and go one is we have a concept of extensions and options one is the protocol types that can be encapsulated so in the first case who has a saying called flag fields which are very much like giri giri mechanism if we compare those two tlvs they are very constrained and the designs will Sophy behind this was that yes the protocol is extensible but we do not anticipate hundreds or thousands of of extensions or tlvs so because it\u0027s in this format a lot of the problems that you see with tlvs go away so there\u0027s only one possible ordering for any given set of options there\u0027s no concept here of ignoring unknown things it\u0027s very efficient I mean about the t cam and as I mentioned we expect kind of a slow growth of extensibility here and that\u0027s also based on looking at other protocols like IP TCP that had options and realizing that very few have actually been added and very very few have been used nevertheless we need the capability to be extensible so the second part is the protocol field it was a little unique compared to many of the other encapsulations we encapsulate by IP protocol number so that includes IP IP ipv6 and the normal things we think of encapsulation but that also does include transport protocols for instance TCP UDP SCTP so that is is on purpose and the document does describe the processing of that to make it saying the basic processing is that the UDP and the gue headers are effectively an extension header in terms of processing such that when the process they\u0027re removed and the resultant is the IP packet followed by whatever is after the gue header that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:29",
    "text": "the resultant packet and this is I think this is maintains logic or logical approach we do have to consider for instance if we\u0027re encapsulating a TCP header so you have UDP gu tcp where it is tcp get its IP header for the pseudo checksum so that has to go all the way back to the initial header metal so it bleeds into the transport versus tunneling cap so there\u0027s a little bit of difference Sara Lee the processing difference this is all the same and implementation wise but the what actually happens difference there\u0027s also private data in GU which we do not specify the contents anyone can put anything there however that has to be agreed by both endpoints network has no no say in this hopefully meuk 11 so as you said not network has no saying this and has to be agreed why do you need it on this layer the private data sorry private data if we don\u0027t put it in people will hack up the fields but there\u0027s an extension field you can extend it right well so imagine I\u0027m a private entity and I want to try and experiment or do something do it if we don\u0027t give them something extended yes it\u0027s extensible but the fields have to be standardized right so we can\u0027t one thing I should mention so we can\u0027t say this flag bit is extensible or it can be used for private uses because we have to specify a size for everything so all the flag bits are associated with the size and so I can give you an example so we try to extend GRE before and what ended up happening is people end up overloading sequence number and checksum field because they weren\u0027t used by hardware and it\u0027s ugly but what I saw was we were using those fields for something completely different than they were designed for problem is that\u0027s a no not interoperable so if we ever ran something against another implementation and both were using these these random bits for different purposes then that\u0027s a problem so it\u0027s like in a sense it\u0027s like having experimental protocol numbers so we\u0027re just allocating this base so it sends a little bit like you try to design something in the blue where you\u0027re not except you know what the problem isn\u0027t what it will be used for and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a good approach and the other point is if you actually have a scenario we have like two tunnel endpoints that want to talk to each other and exchange data then you might also want to consider just having a separate control channel for that right so it\u0027s right just like not be a functionality that you want on this layer at all sure there\u0027s there\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:30",
    "text": "separate control channel ID so one one difference we don\u0027t want to rely on the separate control channel so I want to make it clear that if you receive something you don\u0027t understand it can be draw the there\u0027s another reason for this it also allows us to extend the the protocol so for instance that previous description had a very ornate format so not everything is amenable to be in a flight field what if I just put that in into the field itself as long as my receivers understand what\u0027s in that private data then that makes sense now I don\u0027t have to go and consume a flag field these are a precious commodity on purpose so we only have 16 bits so we want to make sure that the only things that are actually standardized in these flag fields are things that are universally important anything else we want to go into kind of specific use cases trying to solve a problem by adding some more space and then you will run into the same problem later on again okay so we have suresh on the line yeah so thanks so one of the things I wanted to point out tom is that I have like one of the things that Gauri bought off was there\u0027s like insufficient justification for a lot of these extensions and because these extensions are present like the the protocol is like too vague and too loosely sculpt for it to like be good enough for a proposed standard so one of the questions like that\u0027s actually two questions right so can you trim some of these things and just like put in like some place for extensions without doing all the extensions that\u0027s one thing and the second thing is like why do you think this should not be an experimental protocol so you go and play with this and come back so those are my two questions so going forward okay I can answer the first one so we did split the protocol specification into two parts so gue itself does nothing more than define the mechanisms the extensibility header length and is relatively simple and straightforward then the second part is there are they be base extensions for instance checksum we\u0027ve already talked about fragmentation that that\u0027s justified I think from a lot of other discussions so the purpose was to break those in into two parts and make that a separate discussion so the base encapsulation is this it does not define any extensions whatsoever the first the next document is intended to be kind of the initial set of extensions Gouri it\u0027s going first when I read it I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:30",
    "text": "had to read the other documents it was a bit confusing I didn\u0027t realize that there were documents at the time but I found there was references across there were things that you had here which you said you needed and they\u0027re in the other document I\u0027m not sure we said we need them as opposed to you can use them so okay so we can base out and simplify it without requiring any of those extensions it can be deployed with UDP encapsulation and gives you those values the extent so so security is an interesting example right so we do want to have security extensions those are not required for every use case so those are in the other document however it\u0027s logical to say since it\u0027s extensible I will want to have security extensions and that\u0027s how I will secure the protocol there\u0027s a lot of pages of text and I didn\u0027t find it that easy to go through them so well I mean so I think you can also compare this to other protocols I mean sure this is not going to be different than the engine able to basically do the same thing there will be a base protocol they\u0027re going to be defining a lot more tlvs because it\u0027s designed for a greater number of tlvs so again all this to me the whole question is is somewhat relatives I I think cirrage captured my card I\u0027d like to know what the reason is we\u0027re doing this so I can check off whether these are the right set of things that are in there and I trust that the working groups looked at this and that they have that list but you need to get it into the document if your reason for doing pretty own work leach the different options the the the format you\u0027ve got the extensibility of the form you\u0027ve got I mean so so there\u0027s a lot of features there\u0027s a lot of pages there\u0027s a lot of options they are dependent on one another a little bit okay so its own to be clear there\u0027s two drafts so are you referring to the base draft that defines a mechanism or the draft that defines the first I believe ten extensions on security talking as well as the Securities and the extensions okay all right it they\u0027re only two documents two documents so there were references to some other documents as have subsequently been removed to pare it down so right now I\u0027ll be current version 80 have changed since I read it only ref yeah the current version of the graph there are two drafts and working group last call the Gugu referee references the extensions draft I\u0027m always happy to eat again right Fred template from Boeing so I just wanted to respond to the question about why proposed standard we\u0027re using Huey in four different very diverse environments right now we\u0027re having it evaluated in a company called free cuentas in vienna austria we\u0027re running in the Amazon Web service cloud we\u0027re also running on a on a test airplane facility in Everett Washington and I\u0027ve got it running on my workstation right here so it\u0027s being "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:33",
    "text": "used okay thanks yeah but Fred look if you can stay back at the mic [Music] that still doesn\u0027t mix like okay so there\u0027s like lot of experimental protocols that are implemented and running right so the question is like you know what is the right level of extensibility required for this that\u0027s really the experiment in my head right so like do we need this much this much extensibility in the protocol that that\u0027s the part I think like Gauri bought up and that\u0027s kind of like my question - right like you know how much extensibility do you mean how many tunneling protocols do we need how many extensions returning protocols do we need right and that I think like reach to me like an experiment right like you know we are gonna try this and at the end we\u0027re gonna come up with like the right amount of extensibility not too rigid not too flexible right that was my question so I\u0027m just gonna leave it at the move I\u0027m not gonna interfere in this but that\u0027s a certainly a question that I\u0027ve seen like you know kind of in the subtext of like what good he said what Dave said what media said and like when I read the document I like I would say really the right level of accessibility is just a question I understand and to be fair what I\u0027m running in my test environment so is the the direct encapsulation of UDP over IP so I don\u0027t get involved with the extent I guess but we do have a need for goe that\u0027s perfectly fine that and that\u0027s why I separated my comments to Tom towards the extensions document reading right and that and that\u0027s why I want to figure out how what needs to get done and successful on that point and so we we have the Shepherd for the gue draft it would be great if we had a Shepherd for the extensions draft because we haven\u0027t had this sort of review so the fact that there\u0027s too many extensions in there really hasn\u0027t been been brought up before and I think that I think if that\u0027s the argument and I I why not just go and talk about that draft separately okay unless unless you\u0027re arguing mechanism itself is is the problem which again I will fall back and say compared to tlvs this is much less much more constrained and more controlled and it\u0027s impossible to add an arbitrary number of tlvs to the protocol that makes sense right so so Tom the thing I wanted to say it\u0027s like when we decided to take this up in interior right so one of the things I talked to you about is like this is going to lead to a larger body of work yes or no right and so interiors really like a place for doing like small things that like don\u0027t have a lot of follow-up book to do now right and for me the extension stuff looks like a lot of follow-up work to do right and you may not agree you may say is like very bounded and everything but like that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:33",
    "text": "the extension document is like serious extra stuff well right but it but here working group last call for yeah if we decide like you know what we\u0027re gonna do with that I think that then like you know it\u0027s easier for me to like decide what to do with this right like I think like people are reading both the documents when somebody says okay so so I am concerned if we start going down that path that will reset the clock and this will be another long process so my preference would be to to avoid that the gue draft stands on its own in one sense it is if necessary we could take out the the references to the extensions and say this is the protocol this is the how you extend it that that is really I think the higher order bit at least for me is to get that so that make sense Tom right because like I think the concern is like people need to read the extension document to make sense out of this like base document okay so your recommendation is to remove references to the second draft yeah so this the standalone like for it to go along okay that\u0027s reasonable okay tell me Polly um so yeah again looking at the current I I think I agree that it\u0027d be good to stand alone and with regards to kind of extensibility I think the issue is not for me at least like the number of extensions but it\u0027s the number of degrees of extensibility potentially in just the basic header so I think particularly when we look at the private data that does seem a bit concerning so like if we imagine if we just like left out the definition of a private data right now it wouldn\u0027t I don\u0027t think it\u0027d actually change anything q so we already have so we have flags for extension fields which yes you may not want to consume one but you do have an option there we have a version field which we\u0027d always Rev to change the meaning of that and you could even have another document in the future that defines when you have the header link that goes beyond your extensions what to do with them so like we don\u0027t actually need to specify and reserved a private data here okay so we still have all the flexibility in the future to extend it how you want it so you want to create another UDP sore area well see what it is right now we have these we have these extensions they have a certain length which we know there\u0027s a header length which should be different so you have this void space if you want to now and it may be just simpler to say that until you have a definition in a specification for how this is used do not use that space and it\u0027s easy enough for someone to come up with an experimental draft later that says I\u0027m going to use this space as my private data for X and here\u0027s how I negotiate it but until we have that definition it\u0027s probably simpler to delete data and the definition is sorry I have used this before because I don\u0027t want to go and start stealing bits that that\u0027s somebody else may be useful it feels like there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:35",
    "text": "not really defined mechanism for how to use this point of extensibility and it\u0027s the document would be stronger I think so if it gets past the point then we can take out any reference to private data I do want to leave the header length in yeah and just not comment on it me I could have in I do agree very much with this Suresh and Tomi as well and and basically I just came to the mic to say like because sir set the right amount of extendibility and that was like Tommy clarified this is like you have so many different ways extended right and it\u0027s not clear why you have so many different ways and what the use case behind it it is and like from protocol design we know that this is like where the nitty-gritty bits are right like this is where it gets complicated and this is where we have all the problems so you need extendibility yes for sure like deciding a protocol without extendibility is not right for hurt right way for it but like yet right now it\u0027s just like kind of random here and you could even go like one you could even you could even take the extendibility space out and just use the version number to extend it first what is random that\u0027s random in the mechanism or random no random without having a use case because if you don\u0027t know what the use case is then it\u0027s hard to design it correctly so we don\u0027t know what the use case is for experimental TVs right this can be used for anything and people have used those for things that really weren\u0027t as good no they were using for done use case for expenditure this is usually to test utility and then come back instead is the right one right in the use case for general today visas usually get already have like a couple of them in your protocol because you know you need to eat them but right here I don\u0027t see any of them and like especially it as it is an encapsulation protocol you want to be careful about the number of files you want to use here so the point of extensibility is to cover the use cases in the future we don\u0027t know about right now that you need some way to extend it right one at least and that has to be flexible enough to cover these use cases and then you can figure out how to design how to use the space that you have in the right way when you have use okay so you\u0027re referring to the private data again if you could break it down at this point because also when I hear that they only use the base protocol without any extensions at this point you could even turn it down to just have a Russian number and yes that\u0027s one use case we do have other cases there\u0027s something called remote checksum offload which is in in production so gory and yeah what does he need the other one the other use case just picture I believe may be good was using it as far as I know so I have in fact all the use cases I know this is in Linux so people can use that if they wish okay and I would say the same as the other people who come to the night so far you can always book she knew RFC I know and Suresh wouldn\u0027t like you to begin your RFC here but you probably could um "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:37",
    "text": "in a short time if there other people need other things so not saying anything about your on your slack area or missing some of the extensions out yeah that\u0027s okay with me anyway but that might might make it easier for me to review it see I just wanted like further justification so like I\u0027m still open if like Tom comes walking in here and tells me like you know why it\u0027s needed for so specifically the remote checksum or Flores again referring to a GUI extensions right so it\u0027s kind of like nearly circular so like if like this like somebody says like hey I need this like it\u0027s getting done in the Linux kernel and I need this like yeah sure let\u0027s talk about it at that point and that\u0027s why I sat down right like the extension is like a bit more contested than the base draft and that\u0027s why I want to kind of have a clean separation between them right but but obviously the lack of a standard doesn\u0027t preclude us from deploying this using this and bounine products based on the code echo and and it\u0027s not clear to me that that\u0027s required to justify it becoming a standard either so we do have that we do the running code is fred pointed out not the extensions well so I\u0027ll talk to Fred we had an extent he needs an extension anyway I guarantee ya so Fred man week of the night okay I just wanted to say his document shepherd of the base queue draft do we have a way forward for this document to move forward and can we imperil look at the the extensions Jeff in parallel yes I didn\u0027t mention it already Tom and Tom agreed I guess right I\u0027d like to make the mood a standalone make it readable by itself without like jumping back to extensions at all on deck okay and then I\u0027ll go ask sorry sorry Tasha well so we asked is is it okay for me to be document shepherd of the extensions draft also it took as a chance but I don\u0027t you know in honor is that okay I\u0027ll talk with you are fluid about that okay thank you thank you very much thank you okay so let\u0027s have another discussion continue on the email and I\u0027ll send in my idea Val to like I kind of wanted to wait till this discussion before I sent it in because I have shared issues with Dave and Gauri so if publishing you rebel cell in medieval right after okay so next is state yes sorry the hot mic over there okay so this is about if\u0027 types and so in case you\u0027re new I have a slide next slide there it is okay if you\u0027re a new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:40",
    "text": "to if\u0027 types ancient history way back when mid-to was first defined it included this notion of an interface table so you can enumerate your interfaces in each interface has a type that registry is an ini registry of I have type values it was most recently defined meaning across different updates and so on and 2863 in 2000 that means the last time that this was updated technically well it\u0027s not quite sure I\u0027ll get to that in a minute was 2000 that means the time that the guidance for registering stuff was written was way before there was such a thing as I into consideration sections okay this does use an expert review and the experts are Dana me and we wrote this document saying here\u0027s what\u0027s happened over the last 18 years that are issues that we\u0027ve had to deal with okay this was done in the if\u0027 mid working group part of the internet area the if\u0027 mid working group closed long ago so welcome to the internet area by the way Justin just to make your life slightly easier Suresh had said he\u0027s willing to 80 sponsor this document if we want to do it that way so ok that\u0027s appreciated however we do want input from the from the interface community which is now the internet area since there\u0027s no I asked networking group anymore one of the last things that the IFP of working group did was it defined a tunnel mid which says there\u0027s a particular if\u0027 type 131 that says it\u0027s an IP tunnel and it created a notion of a subtype or a tunnel type and in there you can find things like UDP encapsulation GRE encapsulation but not GUI encapsulation hint-hint and it uses exactly the same process and experts as the if\u0027 type and so again that\u0027s Dan and me currently fYI there\u0027s 296 AF type values registered and 18 tunnel type values that are registered the majority of those are not from the IETF but the IETF has some of the entries in both of them that means most of the requests that we get do not come through the IETF they either come through vendors or they come through other standards bodies you know I Triple E or itu-t II and so on and so forth and so our attempt here is to say we have some designate experts that we\u0027ve been operating on current practice for a while and our understanding of what the if\u0027 may have originally I have made working group originally wanted what 18 years ago of which I was one of the people that was there and that\u0027s why I got stuck with being the expert after Keith McCleary was the designated expert before me and Dan was ops area director for a number of years before ROM or management area director okay so that\u0027s the int that\u0027s the intro to help you understand a couple of the examples that are in there and there\u0027s three types of relationships that are kind of interesting the first type of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:41",
    "text": "relationship is a sub type so I mentioned there\u0027s a type for a tunnel and an example of a sub type is GRE you can see there\u0027s a tunnel type numbering space that when I of type is 131 then tunnel type equals 3 means it\u0027s a GRE tunnel okay another example is I have type 6 this is a layering stack right because you can enumerate X goes over Y goes over Z right and so this is an example of a tunnel that goes over the top of Ethernet that goes over the top of SONET right this is actually a valid example and so here\u0027s an example where Ethernet and then at some point in time they was defined you know Fast Ethernet Gigabit Ethernet with different numbers that came and has also have a lose later on those things were obsoleted and said you should just use 6 right and shouldn\u0027t be defining alternate versions that are essentially the same that\u0027s actually one of the discussions that and that\u0027s actually an RFC right the one that says these are deprecated and just used this that\u0027s the Ethernet like interfaces nib okay okay and so these are exempt these are all examples from the IETF the point is that experts have to deal with similar issues outside of the ietf - and we want justification and so I\u0027m coming here to write this document so that we can potentially claim IETF consensus rather than that designated expert said so because right now guidance is scattered around about four different places between the ANA websites and a bunch of RFC\u0027s that aren\u0027t easy to find okay a third type of relationship is a sub layer is plenty of examples of things that asked for two different numbers or two different layers okay this is often the case when you have some multiplexing relationship or dynamic relationship here this point is there subtypes there\u0027s potentially alternate values it says oh this isn\u0027t quite GRE I want gooey and so that\u0027s an alternate value because it\u0027s not quite the same thing or maybe it is depending on which example that we\u0027re looking at and then there\u0027s sub layers where people want multiple of them and of course in this whole stack again I only pulled IETF examples right I could have constructed ones where everything in here was some proprietary one for a vendor that\u0027s fine or from some other Sto okay so over the last 18 years we\u0027ve run into five issues and so the document covers those five issues the first one is way back when this is first defined it was nibs and there was mips but nowadays we have things like yang modules and so forth and so people said well do I need one of these numbers what does this mean for yang right and so the current practice is documented here this is not a change from current practice in fact RFC 724 took the if\u0027 type numbering space and created the mid module forum to say hey look guys it\u0027s not just about moves right so this did it but if you don\u0027t obviously find that RFC then you end up with these questions it says I don\u0027t have a mid why do I need an if\u0027 type number or what does this mean for me so in practice Ayana actually maintains the actual registry in the form of a mid module and a yang module okay how many registries come in you know some formal syntax like XML I can go and grab the registry and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:41",
    "text": "XML here you can go and grab the registry in mid orang yang mitten module format so the draft clarifies current practice which is if\u0027 type values are not tied to the having an existence of a nib or a yang module you don\u0027t even need either of them you can just ask for a type okay this goes for tunnel types as well you can say hey I have gooey but I have not defined a mid module or a gang module can I have an IFR a tunnel type value yes can you have an if\u0027 type value if you convince us that it\u0027s not a tunnel yes and here the about tunnel sight okay oh hopefully that hint is getting across so I don\u0027t have to get across up at the mic okay so examples of current uses of if\u0027 type values okay they are the values of a number of mid and yang objects like when you read the iaf table they are parts of unique identifiers like if I want to identify the mid for either net or whatever they will show up in the object identifier for that mid Orion module they are unrelated to any data any native modeling language like maple yang their values exposed by AP eyes right this operating system API is you can go in query and I\u0027ll say here\u0027s the numbers and of course there\u0027s various utilities that display it in graphical UI and command-line interfaces and so on so these show up all over the place so this is now mentioned in the document just for reference that says yeah it\u0027s not just about Minton okay because the registry only mentioned nibs okay so that\u0027s that one was pretty easy this one is more complicated and that\u0027s why I showed you the picture here because we get requests sometimes especially when it comes in from vendors it says I would like a particular value and we as designated experts have to say are you asking it right okay oh we\u0027re asking for a sub layer well did you actually mean to ask for a tunnel type or vice-versa or did you want an alternate value or did you want a sub layer right and so this is actually something that is not well documented it\u0027s documented by example and by some text in the original interfaces NIP and so we kind of tried to pull these together and here we\u0027re actually proposing an on next slide new guidance that wasn\u0027t previously written down that we believe reflects the intent of the interfaces networking group we want to see if yours idea of consensus on so here what\u0027s the problem okay I mentioned the difference between sub layers and subtypes right and so the first problem is we have an if\u0027 type or you can say there\u0027s various I have types that come in or I have to take requests that comes in or mechanisms that people are defining by themselves are not sufficient to ensure interoperability with another implementation of the same thing okay one example I mentioned was IP tunnels okay you can\u0027t interoperate with another IP tunnel unless you match the subtype right it\u0027s not like GRE is gonna interoperate with Torito or something like that that does make sense right okay so another example is you\u0027re defining a layer and without having the same sub layer below it okay you can\u0027t interoperate unless you have the same sub layer below it for you ipv6 people this means yes it\u0027s your ipv6 it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:42",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t mean you can interoperate with another IP six node you actually have to have a common link layer to go right same kind of concept right same thing happens at lower layers so what happens is if we get a request that says it\u0027s not intended to be an operable with itself okay then of course then what should we do is the next thing that happens is another vendor comes in and says we have our vendor instantiation of that thing okay do we give them an alternate value do we give them a sub layer value which comes out of the same registry right order we give them a total type value okay we have to have enough information here what should we do okay so partly we want to document what we think the future designate expert should do and secondly we want to document what a definer should do to help us with the next request that says oh I want to come in as a vendor and here\u0027s my instantiation okay so this is the actual text out of there I\u0027m not going to read the whole thing on to point out the bolded parts okay the bolded parts is kind of what I want to highlight and maybe get input on okay as the goal of this is to eventually get an IETF consensus document that we can use as backup or at least as guidance to us as to what to do us or the future desert and experts who replace Dan and I at some point in the future the first one is kind of an interface Tait Minh tuff what if\u0027 mid working group intended and maybe equal with the wording or whatever but the intent of an interface type or subtype is that his definition should be sufficient to identify an interoperable protocol okay but in some cases you have to have something that goes below it or a subclass whatever to make it be interoperable okay and so here\u0027s text about as I have type definition should discuss whether to use a sub layer model or a sub type model in order to specialize it okay so if I\u0027m defining something that is met by itself not interoperable and a vendor gets to plug something into it okay whoever defines it should be the purses providing sufficient guidance to say whether the next person that comes along should be sub classing it or so blaring it okay and so we as designee experts can then follow that guidance it says look this is what the schema definition said because right now we have to try to figure it out ourselves and when the document is very hard to read we\u0027re stretching our heads for a while and that you slows down the process and nobody likes that neither us nor the requester okay and so in one of these if you\u0027re doing a if you\u0027re saying that a sub type is more appropriate then you should define a registry like the tunnel meant did okay and so in either case give us guidance when defining one of those things so yep we\u0027ll absolutely grant things that for which are not interoperable with itself example tunnel Lib on the author of that but we defined a sub type model and other cases they define a sub layer model either of that is okay but tell us what the intent is that\u0027s our intent of this text if you have guidance on the actual wording of this let us know this one was the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:42",
    "text": "easiest one I mentioned that some registries are maintained and grabbable in XML format this ones grabbable in mid or yang format what\u0027s happened a couple of times is that in those changes it went to invalid syntax and there are tools that can see when programmatically and of course those tools broke and so all this did what does it says at a step 9 a process to verify it with a syntax checker before publishing it Ana has since done so but this wasn\u0027t documented anyplace and so this is a recent change Nana process steps and so on the process steps in the document it\u0027s now documented go number four is transmission values I mentioned one of the places that things can get used is an identifier of a data model or of an object in a data model and that\u0027s where this transmission value registry comes in okay it\u0027s like in the oid subtree okay there\u0027s a transmission sub mode and then underneath transmission is a number and so that number is the transmission value and so today the transmission value registry is a subset of if\u0027 types okay with the same value jewelley with the same value and there\u0027s no guidance written down anyplace on whether an if\u0027 type allocation should also get a transmission value or not if the requester didn\u0027t explicitly ask for one so we have vendors and other scos that come in it says I would like a if\u0027 type for my favorite encapsulation they\u0027re my favorite layer 2 protocol that I used to find and IANA has to decide how to your whether or not to grant them a transmission value so what do they do they ask the designated experts what do we do we scratch our heads and say we\u0027re just going to allocate one whether they like it or not and here\u0027s why number one saves us effort if they come back later they don\u0027t have to come back later right let\u0027s work for us let\u0027s work for them number two the numbering space is not scarce right it\u0027s not like you have a fixed bit field ok number three the fact that we don\u0027t have to decide right is the policy means hey we don\u0027t have to talk about it right and number four there\u0027s actually no case on record we\u0027re having done that in the past would have caused any problem ok and so each time right now Ana asks us should we allocate a transmission value and we say yes immediate responses so we\u0027d like to document that ok and say that is the guidance for future designated experts and in fact here\u0027s why ok so there you go if you ask for something and don\u0027t need it we\u0027ll give you one anyway eat your veggies ok and the last one is also easily fixable which is all the documents and the registries say to submit a request via email but if you go to Hana and you look at the list of registries you\u0027ll find a nice little form for submitting a request for interface type so people come in ask us which way should I do it do I use the email like this thing says or I need the webform that\u0027s over here and in practice they accept it either way believe it or not and so we figured we\u0027ll actually say that so that people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:42",
    "text": "stop asking us which one to use now I will mention that when I review these slides with Ayane back back she let me know add this Michelle let me know that is exploring how to do it in the future with maybe a new registry workflow system there\u0027s nothing we can tell people do right now but just a heads up that fact is not in the document right now but that is something that we may or may not allude to in the document depending on how IANA wants us to wear it so okay it still be a form of some type is what Michelle said for those remote okay all right that is it okay again there is a document right now the main thing we want guidance on or what feedback on it specifically this text the document itself tries to make obvious distinguishing distinguishing fact between text we pulled in from various other places in current practice versus proposed changes okay it should be real obvious because stuff was in like all caps as a prefix or anything that\u0027s a proposed change that we want to we believe doesn\u0027t yet have IETF consensus it\u0027s just been kind of up to the designated experts to decide and we\u0027d like backing and so we put that in all caps as a prefix so anyway this is the example all right questions Mike Abrams will say is there any reason we shouldn\u0027t take the expert advice on the expert review process here in my expert opinion no I didn\u0027t see anything here that seemed to be you know either/or we should do anything so you know you see you\u0027ve been doing a bang-up job for twenty years nobody\u0027s complained I will say that there is a reason we have two designated experts on this one because the guidance is a bit slim in some cases and so we have two designated experts and so for anything that is non-obvious we always have both of us check it and we give the answer back to anta once we both agree and Michele\u0027s back there not a so for money this seems I\u0027ll trust you as an expert david black this seems good motivate me take a look at the mid and the if\u0027 the the if\u0027 nib is comprehensive 9300 entries including type 132 for coffee pot yeah that\u0027s because that one was an April 1st RFC right however the the ton of subtypes is with my light zone a lot of date so this what we got to do we sort of asked you what comes next question F after this is dealt with and particularly given that I think the tones draft says that tunnel endpoints are interfaces should there be some kind of campaign to go get all the tones we defined in the past I don\u0027t know how many years into this internal subtag registry do you have someone in particular because like software is wanting to register happy in that t fairly recently I mean fairly recently I mean when map T and map he went RFC they were registered at that point okay and so what are the ones are you uh let\u0027s say you mentioned that GUI doesn\u0027t have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:42",
    "text": "he\u0027s not an RFC you yeah yet by the way you can get early allocation you\u0027re not have to be should be in their draft they should be getting hourly allocations arginine needs nori allocation pretty excellent is an RFC and doesn\u0027t have an allocation there are there surely a number more where they came from you\u0027ve been very creative with tunnels that sounds like a great job for internet area and or the Directorate from the area directors and the designated experts look forward to reviewing those requests our whole goal in doing this is to cut down on the time it takes us to respond right which makes everybody happy yeah so yeah the next step is I\u0027m gonna kick off a procedure for this to go through baby sponsored stuff so I\u0027m immediately thinking of like you know the in do three is one of them software is another one interior six man probably some ops of the ship oh no to them saying this rafters there and inside the process okay I think that\u0027s it then I said that I\u0027ve used all examples from the ITF in here but as you can imagine this actually more requests I think that we get from outside IETF then we give them inside the ITF is maybe about 50/50 yeah okay so I think the loads it\u0027s Michelle cotton with I Anna I just want to say thank you for doing this this is like role model expert material any of you that want to be an expert in the future it\u0027s a thankless job being an expert but we very much appreciate it and so thank you for the extra work you put into doing this we love it when procedures get cleared up and when things are crystal clear for a future expert so thank you you should present more you\u0027re very entertaining and just from the interior point of view I think that it\u0027s true that we pick up a lot of garbage but we also like to give to other groups yes you\u0027re welcome to keep coming too sorry okay so thank you very much everyone and enjoy "
  }
]