[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "so i forgot how to share my slides something relax over here um so you have to import it first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "here so now we go back for those of you online we're just waiting for those slides to get set up and in the room um okay we got the slides up yes so i guess it's time to start welcome everybody to this hybrid meeting the working group also on behalf of my co-chair don felix who is remote whereas i'm on site and our area director of raw dharma is in the room also on site you're still a little faint"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "you can get maybe closer to the mic not without swallowing it actually so this is the note well and this session is being recorded take note of the note well everything that you say in here is an idea of contribution and there are some other important points as well i see a message in the chat to turn up the mig game i have no control over that i have a microphone right in front of me and i cannot get can you try maybe the other mic up near the front can you take that off the podium and just use that this better yes okay then are we using this one um here are some hints tips for uh both in-person and remote participants this is only the second slot of the day this so maybe you're not quite familiar with this in person people in the room here can make use of this special onsite tool which runs on mobile devices and they can use this to [Music] scan the qr code"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "and thereby sign the blue siege if you go to the mick to say something please do not remove your mask you have to wear your mask at all times and even i as a chair have to wear the mask here are some resources here is who we are don and myself and our responsible id and the mailing lists here's the agenda for this afternoon we have a fairly short agenda we may have me go through it uh before the hour is over however i really would like to uh to achieve two things in this meeting and that's uh sort of a decision to be confirmed on the mailing list of course about how to proceed with the credit-based flow control documents that have been under a transport area early review and specifically there has been a suggestion to merge two of these documents and i would really like to hear the opinion of the working group and also the author lou berger and his his co-authors defer to the working group on this so we have to form an opinion on this and then take it from there another thing is that we have a working group adoption call running for one of the five related drafts by henning roger the one on radio band parameters"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "some discussion has been started on the mailing list and that's good we started the adoption goal and i really like to hear some more opinions then we come to future work but that's not very much different from what was on the slide last time and then if time allows i have a little bit of a different thing nothing to do with dlab but something that i've been working on myself and it allows simplified multicast forwarding rfc 6621 1 to make use of npr information from osrv2 in the thing called the source-based npr and let's see if we can get to that document status as that three credit-based flow control drafts have been under tsv area review team review we got some feedback the end of november last year i apologize for not responding to that earlier lou berger on behalf of the authors has also responded fairly recently he has taken a lot of comments from david black the reviewer on board and this has resulted in the issuing of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "new versions of these documents however one main point and we're coming to that on the next agenda item is this discussion on to merge or not to merge we had one other document in the same series this was on ether based [Music] credit flow control or i should say 802.11802.1.2 aware um credit based flow control that was not part of the package that we sent to tsv to the area review team because it was a little bit behind at the time it was still in the working group it now has passed working group last call and we have to decide what to do with it with this contingent on the discussion that we're having on the merging or not merging of the other drafts then we have the running adoption call for the d-lab radio band extension there are two more proposed extensions by the same author and we [Music] should revive the discussion on that on the mailing list we're coming to the second point of the agenda now which is the um the discussion on the credit based"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "flow control draft documents that's said these have been a review good comments from the reviewer lots of those comments taken on board however dave black strongly suggests that the div server where credit extension and the traffic classification drafts are merged because the di credit extension is a very short draft this has been noticed by uh by other people before like ending roger and he thinks it would help implementers would it would make things more clear for implementers if this was to become one document and as said the authors think that the working group should decide because it was the working group that decided to split these documents in the first place and so it seems appropriate that the working group has a say in how to go forward with this that's the discussion that i want to have after lou has presented a bit of the history behind all of this because this is a very long-running thing that started before my co-chair and i were chairs of this working group and we have to bring this to some conclusion and not go flip-flopping between splitting and merging forever i do want to add that if we decide to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "follow the suggestion by david black that there will be an impact on that one draft that's still limping behind the ether credit based flow control because that's dependent on the traffic classification draft in the same way that the div server document is so if we merge of aware with traffic classification and we also diff serve we also merge ether based with traffic classification we get two documents with roughly 60 70 percent the same content and that's that's strange i think so then we would have to look at the traffic classification uh how we could possibly rework that and maybe uh divide that up into two separate documents and then merge one with div serverware and the other one with the eta based but that's a painful surgery i would say so now i would like to give lu burger the chance to refresh some of the ideas behind all this is that okay lou sure happy good go ahead and i will uh well next slide i think you covered a lot of what i was going to say um you know basically no no no i'm actually even happier that you did it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "because as you said it's a working group decision it's not an author decision so we have um these old very old documents the fourth one had trailed behind i think at this point effectively it has caught up um the working group had made the call to break them apart largely because then you from a conformance standpoint you would issue you would say um you know as a as a user you could say or as a vendor you could say we can form with this rfc and it's unambiguous which parts that you uh support um there was some concern that if they were a single document it would imply that you supported everything and that was the you know from my view that was the the rationale behind the split up um and oh i'm really talking to the next slide but anyway uh uh doesn't matter uh no no it's okay go back um so so that's you know that's really going back uh ancient history and these are really old documents that have really been slowed down based on you know what's going on in the working group um the the it doesn't seem like there's much technical open issues on this uh the documents have been stable a very long time david did ask for a clarification that that ended up in one technical change um that's highlighted in green below i think the really only open substantive question is how many documents um from my view you know we had that that history of um of splitting things apart and that's if you want to go into more of that there's a couple more slides on it you know that those changes date back literally 10 ietfs maybe 12 ietfs ago so that was a lot ancient history sort of doesn't matter what the asian history is um the key things i think are we are where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "we are number one number two um there was a rationale for the split meaning referencing documents with explicit with unambiguous conformance um and i you know to me that seemed reasonable at the time i wasn't um uh adamant then either as i am not now uh you know i'm i think i think it'd go either way i would say that we're gonna merge i think we should merge all four and put it in a single document um and uh i i think also um keeping them apart uh has some good rationale to it uh i'll flip through the next two slides just because they're really old and they have been presented and they provide some additional context uh and then leave it to the room to discuss next please um yeah i don't think there are any more slides because the ones that you sent me yeah that's it so that's why yeah so back in um basically the the first split happened based on discussions at ietf 101 then they were presented at 102 and this talks about how the documents were moved apart um and it's still referencing basically the same set of documents and the same technologies there's there has been some cleanup since then but nothing too substantive uh next and then at 102 there was some additional discussion about making about this that yielded the structure we have now um and it was um to make it clear again from the conformance standpoint what you were supporting um from a uh implementer standpoint i don't know i don't care if it's one document or ten documents as long as they're linked to each other and these these have appropriate normative references um that's the background if there's any questions i can flip back and forth"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "think there's much left to the to to say on the topic um i think the next slide just says what do we want to do and um yeah that's the one i uh removed because it only set the next steps sent to the iesg question mark and well that's the from from my end you know we need a decision um these things have been open in uh last call for like three years yes and yes three years and a lot of chairs and uh you know it's time to be done with these um frankly i have resisted doing any new work in this working group because of how long it's taken to get these documents out um and there were a number of of related documents that i was planning on on working on and i just haven't because what's the point um so i'd like to see these go forward and then you know we can revisit new work yeah i was going quickly to through the list of attendants to see if rick taylor was there but that doesn't seem to be the case because i think he was one of the driving forces so to speak behind the split but as far as i can see he's not there now but we can always ask later so is there anyone else who has an opinion or comments or maybe rad can talk about whether he is opinion i see him in the room so why not hi uh how about arizona i don't care um well i do care let me put it another way uh it doesn't matter to me whether you progress one or four"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "um the only thing that will matter when i get to process them is as you said lou uh you know they're properly referenced back and forth um you know given this discussion i'll probably if there are more than one progress them together right so we're not trying to review things in the asg that depend on something that happened a few months ago or something like that so um from that point of view right it will end up hopefully being that we publish them all at the same time so from the point of view of our c publication it's about the same thing right i have heard in other working groups you know similar arguments of being able to say as an implementation i support rc1 or rc2 or just 3 but not 2 or whatever it is so that it makes it easier for people to to put that in their uh literature or whatever manuals or anything and so other working groups have taken that that path um you know the same thing in those cases i'd rather if there's related things to kind of process them together but so this is not unusual that things are progressed uh independent of each other independent meaning you know different rfcs or different drafts that are just related at some point so so that's why i started by saying that to me as the ad and having to process this it doesn't really make a difference which way you want to do it if in one package or in in this case four different uh drafts i i i won't even say that i hope that helped because it probably didn't but um yeah it's up to you guys yes and um we had the same discussion one year ago when we had these three fire related drafts from henning robert and we also said uh well they're fairly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "short should we merge them or should we should we keep them separate and was exactly the same argumentation that if you keep them separate then implementers can say well i support this one but not the other one so that that is valid um my only concern is that [Music] if we ignore a strong suggestion from a tsv area review team and it has to go back there at some point some point or two that uh yeah that we will be effectively blocked but if i can say something real quick for some reason i can't get off the cue but since i'm there anyways i was going to say that this is a strong suggestion by the tsb reviewer it is not a blocking position no right yet so you know we can forward it it's up to the maybe the transport ads to decide whether they block or not i can't speak for them but i would doubt that if we progress all documents at the same time and we explain why we're doing this that you know they would want to block anything because you know by that point by the time we get to the asg and it's time for them to to put their ballots in um they're going to block on that now we have to go back right merge everything go through atf last call you know everything else and it's just going to delay something for the same text right and and maybe confusion to implementers or people in the field so sure you know it's nice to listen to the to the reviewers but you know this doesn't sound like a technical argument right that he's saying that something is wrong it sounds like yeah you know we could do this in one document which we could but again it's up to to what you guys"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "who know the market and the implementations uh think is better for this work and i agree with lou right uh whatever we decide we should just move this along and get over with get going yes blue you want to say something yeah i mean based on all the discussion uh i i would prefer to keep them separate and not only because it's less work for me which is always a nice thing um but we can take the versions we have right now and submit them uh you know all the other comments have been addressed and uh the documents have been updated you know at the same level uh i think i think they're ready to hit submit at this point um it would be good to get david to confirm that his other comments are addressed uh and and then go are you are we waiting on further feedback from david i think it's always good form to circle back to a reviewer and and confirm with them that their comments are addressed okay um you know i would say like send them a message and say hey can you confirm and if you know give him a month you know some reasonable period of time to respond yeah he's been waiting for us for me maybe for a very long time so uh yeah but we shouldn't wait a very long time forgotten about this we shouldn't wait a very long time and keep in mind that this is just getting into the isg there's still uh ietf last call there's still the formal approvals by the area directors he'll have plenty of time to speak up if he disagrees yeah or plenty of opportunity i shouldn't say time unfortunately will be plenty of time but i've had plenty of opportunity so my takeaway for now is that we keep those documents separate and i will send a new mail to the mailing list to ask there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "this is our uh intended decision and uh give people uh a week or two maybe uh maybe what why do we even need to ask i mean this the working group previously has you know for years have said keep it this way you know why do we need to go back to the working group and say yeah we're really going to keep it this way we've already said we're sorry sorry it was you that said that we should defer to the working group so that's not the same as asking the question again i don't think we need to ask the question again i think you know asking uh david if he has any comments uh i think that you know does this the current version stress all's comments i think that's good uh alvaro said progressive as a set i think that's good but you know we don't have to have unless someone else raises this uh we've asked and answered this so many times in the working group i'm not sure it helps to ask again but i'll i i guess i'll defer to the chair uh i'll defer to the chair so whatever you want to run it yeah okay um opposed to the list won't hurt and if if there's no no response then we progress as we just agreed and um i'll get back to dave black to see if he's happy with the way you resolved all his other comments does that sound like a way forward silence is uh sounds good to me yeah sorry i didn't realize you were just looking for specific thank you okay thanks lou"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "moving on to agenda item number three um the three fire related drafts from henningeroga are also a year old now there has been some discussion on the mailing list but not much so we're really keeping another author waiting this should not become a tradition but i play myself let me say that it seemed to me that there was a discussion on the channel busy stuff a bit more than the other ones because there the drafts proposed to send a lot of parameters to the router by the monum and let the router sort out what to do with with those through some magic uh formula but this radio band thing seems to be the least contentions at least for my personal uh observation so i thought that we could put this one in working group or in group adoption call even if it's not perfect in its current form and i recently raised a question about what to do if your radio or the modem that's attached [Music] if the modem is attached to a radio that's uh of the frequency hopping kind how you can then meaningfully have a single value for the frequency in the data item"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "and henninger has responded there's been a reaction for from former chair justin dean i responded this morning so the discussion is [Music] is going which is good but that should not stop this draft from being uh adopted as a working group document as far as i'm concerned because that's only that's not the end of the process and not the end of discussion but really the beginning of it it's it's nothing working group last call don you wanted to say something yeah i just had a question of um why it was it was just uh but this this draft like uh knitting has three drafts and it seems to me that the frequency mine is probably related to the quality that you know in uh quality aspects um the the discussion as i've been reading it seems to be that if you're doing frequency hopping it might have some other effect on it but you're really not going to get a good feel for what the actual capability of frequency hopping is other than it can do it so i thought maybe addressing all three might might make sense and i just wondered why we were just doing the one ah fair point um my idea was what i proposed was to for the frequency hopping [Music] just have a flag in the data item that said whether the the frequency hopping field had a meaningful value"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "so if the the frequency field had a meaningful value so if the radio was of the frequency hopping kind then you would just lower this flag and say okay i can still report the bandwidth but i don't have a sensible value for the frequency opening joe just ignored it is is the band with this reported is that a data bandwidth or is that a um a frequency bandwidth i that that's a bandwidth in hertz so how much of the spectrum is is this signal uh occupying so that you can so the router can decide to use a less bandwidth consuming alternative if there is one yeah i i just thought the the use of bandwidth sorry go ahead now that that's the way that this this router would factor this information into its into its routing decision that was the idea as far as i understood yeah when i saw that in the draft i i i'm used to bandwidth being a data bandwidth of bits per second and we might want to use a different term or make sure that we point that out that you know i think the thing in hertz is the original meaning of bandwidth and yeah i stay this guy because we wrecked it um i call that capacity by the way um so yeah we have this adoption call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "but you do have a point why not the other two so maybe i'll just issue adoption calls for those as well if only to get some more discussion that would be good so far however i think the discussion on the radio band thing is not overwhelming so this is a another encouragement to the working group to the working group members to state their opinions or ask questions or provide comments as some have been doing but i hope there are more people out there that can chime in on this okay [Music] the future works slide did not really change since last time we had a presentation last time by ed bahrain from the uh chair of the dtn working group on what is now called dtn network management with what used to be called asynchronous management architecture there were a few questions at the end of the presentation but not a whole lot i'm planning to attend the dtn meeting tomorrow and see where they are with that and maybe have a chat with people to the extent that they are present here afterwards for as far as multi-cost is concerned we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "still have this question of whether is worth pursuing i think it is but in a slightly different context namely as part of a federation of monet's sort of new topic there are some near future issues the ola rv2 router restart recommendations were prompted by a problem that was found last year during a major interoperability testing event yeah i will get in touch with hanning roha to because it was with his implementation osr d2 that we ran into this i will ask him if he has worked on a solution in the meantime it was [Music] also one year ago at the march meeting a presentation by jointly by rick taylor and lou berger on a d-lab clarifications and lessons learned internet draft that they both thought would be useful to have however since they have indicated that neither of them has time to work on it lou can you confirm that it's still the case i may have time once the other drafts get submitted to the isg uh okay yeah i uh i understand yeah i i i'm not gonna yeah yeah sure i'll revisit that once they're submitted thank you yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "i can see your point just for good measure i'll ask rick the same question then um question to avro but not on his capacity as ad but as someone who may be involved in this inter-satellite link thing do you think there's any role for the monet working group with regard to that alvaro thana feature way technologies um so yes i'm authoring a couple of drafts on uh routing over isl we presented them at a couple of different working groups and we are my company working with a specific provider who has or is who has deployed their own constellation etc now the thing that some people have asked us here the atf is well if we're going to standardize something we need interoperability and it would be great if we had other participants um you know wanting to to do this um so yes on one hand i think that um you know things are moving you know it's an uh type network so it sort of fits on the other hand uh i would really like to see um you know other people in the space interested right if not i don't think it makes sense for for the one person or the one company to to uh you have to push some work right even if others might want help right so so i would rather see that interest first before having something um yo listen here clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "um i let oh yeah go ahead yeah uh the ambergram which so i believe this you're referring the presentation that was done this morning in the distributed mobility yeah and i want to make that comment there so first of all if that would be discussed i think man it would be a much better working group for that then then that would been in the distributed mobility management and as this is about semantic crowding and there is some interest within the community to work on the semantic routing by this i'm referring to the work by adrian farrell and daniel king it might be worth to see what they are doing on general semantic routing and then you can add the use cases for the inter inter satellite links because you you just want to add some semantics to the routing thank you right so just a quick clarification alvaro retina future way again uh yes so there are yeah this is a big system right so there are many different parts in there and that's why we've been talking to different working groups so there's all the the mobility and handoff management stuff so yeah that's why dmm there's a bunch of routing right in between all the links um there's how do we actually do some of the directions through the network which is where we're putting or looking at putting some semantics in the addresses so that it's not just go to address five but inside the orbit go left to right and the orbit go yeah et cetera i think that that um given that it's a big problem it probably doesn't fit in one place and even if we do one thing in one place for example routing here right i think the forwarding using say semantic addresses yeah it's sort of independent somehow right we can still do forwarding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "in different ways or we can do them with the semantic thing right so in other words i don't want to also wait for um other working groups and research groups to figure out what to do with this amazing growing stuff before doing something if again if there's enough interest to do it at least there's some interest uh or i guess there's some interest uh so so it would be uh important to see what else and how would we scope that work say here or somewhere else right yeah so as the monkey grounding is looking for some real use cases and they're coming up with this a real use case and the real problem that industry has to solve is trying to solve so there's reason why i'm saying joining forces by bringing a real use case that is a problem today could speed up with the work because there would be more interest by the larger number of community okay blue so i think we've had um satellite presentations in multiple working groups um in different areas uh speaking to alvaro as a.d it might be worthwhile to have a single place at least the route for the routing issues to be um housed so that we know where to go for the discussions and their single discussions as opposed to fragmented discussions um and whether it's semantic routing um elements show up or not i think that's uh you know a more detailed comment than what i'm making uh you know that's both uh that's secondary um but it would be a good good to have a single place for it man a seems to be a great candidate um not a lot of activity here that you know so there's probably space for it but then again you often get more activity in a new working group so i would be interested in hearing from uh alvaro if the isg has been talking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "about potentially where to house this activity um hi again uh um no we haven't specifically been talking about this uh work on on routing and satellites we have uh well me obviously but others noticed that there have been representations the other places um so just to be clear i'm going to hand this off to one of the other routing ads right since i have an obvious conflict uh on talking especially with the entities because of dmm and you know has been presented i think in int area as well to figure out you know what do we do with this if anything as i said before one of my concerns even if i'm one of the authors there is that i think it's an interesting topic and i think many of us would say it's an interesting topic even if we were not working on it i would again like to see more actual people working on constellations or trying to provide service over satellite networks uh to you know come forward and be interested in doing some of the work uh you know otherwise um it will it won't be as as fruitful or as impactful work for the atf in the end but yes i'll carry this to john or andrew to to talk about whether there is they think there is enough interest and and to figure out what to do with this at some point there will also be a short presentation on this in the next slot in rtgwg so i'll also talk to the chairs there because our twg is chartered to try and dispatch some things so that they you know try and think about that as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "thank you i have to say that i am on the inter area i'm mailing east and i see all this uh post on semantic uh routing uh fly by but uh i haven't really had the time to uh to digest all that but uh oh so sorry so now that you said that it reminded me of something else um so as i tried to say before you know this writing over satellites right is trying to use some semantic addressing to do the forwarding uh but you know it is not just semantic addressing right and we don't depend on that there has been to answer another part of this question a little bit more discussion in the asg and i'm sure you guys have seen it in the irtf as well especially in the pointer g working research group about semantic routing in general so um yes we have talked a little bit more about that because the general response from the irtf seems to be more along the lines of this may be engineering work not a research topic and of course in the atf we still haven't seen specific proposals for use cases maybe this is the first one right uh again trying to deconflict myself as much as possible uh so we've been you know looking at that as well you know if there is a specific proposal for what work do should we do uh then you know it's something we then we can consider you know do we charter a new working group do we do this do we do a mainly less you know whatever the the options are um again if you're interested uh towards the end of rtdwg in the next hour we're gonna have a discussion on that hopefully we get to it because it's in the last couple of 10 20 minutes so we might run out of time but that's some of what we're going to be discussing okay there as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "so on the semantic routing there are there are issues for use cases but the more and more i start to look into the edge applications i had that word but you know it's sort of like marketing words that covers a lot of area i see there's a lot of need for semantic routing in industrial process applications that are being executed at the edge so having more use cases we can then have a better foundation for the semantic routing where we can take multiple aspects what are the requirements and and develop the right solution instead of just going from one angle and uh ended up being a one specialized and then we see oh we need something else and then we end up another version of solution for pretty much the same problem hence i would like to see that you know me personally i would like to see that joint work because who knows what different errors will run into it and the more input we have i think we can then develop a better solution makes sense lou are you still in the queue or did you want to add something ah that's clear right so we have a couple of minutes left so i would like to say and now for something completely different i this is about protocols that were developed in this working group in the past notably simplified multicast forwarding which is a way to disseminate multi-cost information in an efficient manner throughout mna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "or the federation of manaes probably and there are several ways this is described in rfc 6621 by the way which is an experimental document from 2012. never brought further to standards track however i know that the original authors from the naval research laboratory in the us have been doing a lot of work since and hopefully we can one day persuade them to bring some of that work here but in the meantime we have smf and it has a number of what are called relay set reduction mechanisms those are three of them are described in appendices to rfc 6621 one of them is called source-based multi-point relay and this is the one that can use the information from a unicast routing protocol optimized link state routing v2 described in rfc 7181 to effectively use the graph yeah graph that that protocol uses to disseminate its policy control information leverage that to also use general user type user multicast package"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "however when it comes to implementations there is an implementation out there for ola's rfe2 which is called osr d2 it's done by henning robe and there is nrl smf from the naval research lab olazar d2 has the information that nrl smf needs to do this this smpr mechanism however in an incompatible format so a little thingy that i worked on and it's really very simple it's a write a sort of conversion program that ties the two together i want to open source this i don't know how many hurdles there are in my organization but if i explain how it works then it's so simple that you can always do it yourself in a couple of hours well maybe this is a bit small but basically says what i just said here ola's rv2 selects multi-point relays based on neighbor information that it gets in such a way that covers all its two hope neighbors smf can leverage this information for the smpr mechanism and if we go to implementations there's this osr d2 and there's no smf and what we need is a bit of glue to tie them together which is what this is um also too has a telnet interface"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "um you can talk to it over tcp socket find the loopback interface and now smf on the other end has a unique socket where it expects its input both sent their regular information so in the case of ozard2 these are the osr v2 routing packets containing hellos and tc messages and in case of analyzer mf this is the the actual user traffic that doesn't even even have to be maybe of course yeah that's not forget the udp socket thing on the right side that was my mistake but [Music] the thing in the middle is called the duff and because o32 is from germany and nrl smf is from the usa duff stands for deutsche american franchise or german american friendship which also happens to be in the name of a german band from the 1980s um this dove thing is continually querying osr d2 for neighbor information specifically who are your symmetric neighbors one of neighbors and which of those have selected you as an npr so who are your npr selectors this is exactly the information that nrl smf needs and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "but the formats are a bit different so dof converts the answers that it gets from mozart d2 and sends them in the in the format that the nrl smf can digest to enroll and while it's doing that it's also logging all the information that gets from osrd2 so afterwards you have a nice trace over the whole run that over the whole period of your let's say experiment or test of which which nodes were one of neighbors and npr selectors at which point in time and there's a little snippet here from a window that shows the source mac address of neighbor whether or not it's an npr selector of yours and whether or not the neighbor status is symmetric and that's really all and we're almost out of time so thank you for attending whether in person or remotely um we have to see whether we will have a meeting in philadelphia but i hope we do and see you there if not before on the mailing list and don't forget to state your opinion on the adoption of the drafts of having robin if you haven't done so yet thanks don any final words from you no i i think we're good oh i did the one the one thing i i did uh you have that open um errata and i uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "message my mailing list to try to address that but try and close it down yeah i it's my bad that i skipped over that i wanted i had to wanted to address that right after document status but i forgot really sorry so with that meeting adjourned thank you thank you i was happy uh is the third day"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:16",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
