[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:01",
    "text": "And maybe it's because I'm tired of taking notes okay. Okay. I think we'll go ahead and get started. Everybody wants to come in. Join with you. Would you mind shutting the door before you walk forward? Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "Closer to the mic. That work better. Okay. Alright. So now the door closed, we'll go ahead and get started. I just realized that these are the wrong slides. That's pretty funny. One time protocol. Working group. Wow. When I uploaded them I uploaded the wrong revision, That's pretty funny. No. So so how many people have been sitting here for the last ten minute when this has been up and not noticed this. Thank you. That's your you're right. It's actually just the content. The this the cover slide that's wrong. So just wrong with it. Yeah. Exactly. Well, I was like, I was afraid it was the wrong set of slides, but... You're right, It's the right set of slides. I just did the cover. You know what I based it don anyway. Alright. Let's start over. Welcome to the re charter Jose working group. This is the... So for those of you who are at the Philadelphia. It was a little bit of a long and winding road to get to this point. We had the Ba. We had Virtual Buff. We we had some development discussions and here we are. So with that, the This is the note well. Which you will have seen which you will have seen all week It has all of the rules and processes by which we abide. If you have any questions, please feel free to ask any of the chairs or to ask our director. area We have a pretty short"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "not a pretty short, but we have a a pretty condensed. Pretty focused agenda today. We have note takers lined up. Thank you, Justin and Christina. Anybody else can help contribute by adding to the notes page, if you would. Also, if if you are relatively new, please remember to scan the Qr code and join the queue. By that method so that we can support both our local and our remote participants. And I think that is all of the administration is there any agenda? Fashion. Okay. Nope. So with that, John's just gonna take a moment to Remind us of what is in our Charter. Oh, no. These are nothing. Yeah. It's it's. No. Actually, just give me two minutes to upload the the revised deck that John and I worked on. And did not upload. You were sitting right there. Didn't we upload him? Okay. So if we actually had I don't know what we... the correct slides you would be seeing. You'd be seeing a lovely description of the first part was of our charter, basically, covers a bit of history about what Jose has done and where what that work has led to, such from the signing and encryption and core documents, algorithms, etcetera. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "has led to Jason Webb tokens and various other things which have been widely adopted through the industry. So moving forward, we've gone from from a place where signing an encryption was sufficient to a more privacy centric. More privacy centered world doing a lousy job of this off the cuff with no slides, but what the hell I could saying So It could get worse. So now we have people applications that wanna preserve privacy. So we need to adopt methods where we can deploy zero knowledge proofs. And The existing Jose structures don't support all the inputs and outputs that we need for zero knowledge proofs? Why have it more or less memorized than So we have actually the work items I need. So in order to support the new work for Zero knowledge proofs otherwise, aka known as J p. We will continue to not actually have the slides. So the work items that that the working group has been chartered to work on. One is an informal document detailing the use cases and requirements for new specifications enabling"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Jason based selective disclosure and zero knowledge proofs. So far, I have yet to see anyone contribute document for the working group to start on that. We have some other documents that have been contributed. The working group is supposed to work on a standard track document specifying the record presentations of independently disclosed in integrity protected sets of data and or proofs using json based data structures. Specifically to bent the ability to correlate by between the ver fires. Standard tracks document specifying the representations of Jason based claims and or groups enabling the selective disclosure of these claims and or proofs and also aims to prevent the ability to correlate. Between different... Again. The Fourth one is standard track document specifying how to use existing crypto graphic algorithms. Some of those may yet to be specified from the Cfr g, etcetera. But as they come about being able to use those crypto graphic algorithms and defining the identifier for the new J p structures also a standard track document specifying how to represent keys for those new algorithms Okay. Now my laptop gone too just because So this may be familiar to you if you were in Philadelphia."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "Where somebody... Could somebody lean against the plug and, like, knock out the to while we're at. So moving on an informational document defining test vectors for the new specifications and the standard track document defining sea based representation corresponding to all of the above for And C t specifications. So we can that's the high level we can combine any of those goals one or more of those into a single document. We're not you know, limited to having a. Okay. Sorry about that. Nothing exact I'm used to it. It's okay. So we can combine them into could call us any number of them into a single document and the next slide? We're also charter to work with the verifiable credentials working group at w three c, privacy pass And with the J t the work group on J t. For select j t s d selective disclosure I keep said s j t or j w s. K. Selective disclosure, j t. I always get that one reversed. So we do have a number of liaison Any questions around our charter? I imagine that there will be other work items that will come our way, things that are perhaps algorithms that need identifier and things that need to be defined So there will be bits and pieces of other work that we can undertake"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "So I believe next up on the agenda is Mike. Yeah, Mike. And while he's coming up here, if everybody could review the charter, and look at suggesting the milestones. And contributing documents that would be helpful. It should be. But, you know, it's gonna blink over That that would be lovely. Okay. Hello? I am Mike Jones. I know many of you. I worked on they most of the original as a documents as well as the related Jason Webb token specification in the The working group. And I'm here today to talk with you about the Jason Web proofs specifications next. So first I'll review a little bit of the stream, which overlaps with what John just said, you can tell us if we're saying consistent things or not next. So we had a boss in Philadelphia in July, during which we discussed a set of drafts called Jason Web proofs. And in fact, the bo was entitled Jason Web proofs or J p And in some sense what we did there was established an existence proof that you could do Jason based. Container format and algorithms for Zero knowledge proofs. And a number of people in the room Christina, you said to tobias a look did supporting presentations about related algorithms work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "and related use cases. Jeremy Miller who should be virtually in the room also did a presentation on this work, which he's been the lead editor of. As part of the long and winding road, we've had a virtual interim in October, which was facilitated by Roman others, during which it seemed that there was consensus to charter over the Jose working group. Ie talked about it twice as they want to do. And we have a animated working group, So welcome all of you. Here we are today. Next. So next, I'll go over what the specifications are on what they do. In some sense this is a review of material that has been discussed in the boss, but not all of you were there. And now we have a working group, which is great. What do they do? They propose a new container syntax that's jason based. In the spirit of the original Jose, Jason woods signature Jason Webb encryption container formats. And the goal is to be able to support Additional algorithms and crypto graphic techniques for newer privacy preserving applications. Sometimes called anonymous credentials. Senior knowledge proofs, etcetera. As John said, the existing container formats don't contain sufficient inputs and outputs to be able to represent the inputs are now outputs needed for some of these algorithms. Which is why we've done this new work in the first place. Among other things, it has native support for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "pull, selectively and potentially with non correlation payloads. Next. So what are these new algorithms do? When what do they look like? You can selectively disclose subset of the payloads to a ver, you can actually do multiple presentations of a container using un integrity values You can prove pre cuts without disclosing the payload values. What do I mean by that? For instance, one of the classic examples of that is you might be able to have pro age over her eighteen claim. Without disclosing, say birthday. And proofs of knowledge. Next. So there's actually history that goes before the History. Germany and Started this work. Being interested in these new algorithms and capabilities and wanting to bring them into the mainstream. And this was in the decentralized identity foundations applied crypto working group. It was explicitly the goal of the advanced crypto photography working group to turn this over to the Ip once the specs got to be at a sufficient level of maturity. Why? Because the Has crypto geography experts and has a history of producing crypto formats such as Jose and That have been widely used. And indeed, that's what happened. So there were early zero zero drafts Jeremy's very kind in crediting me with the inputs to that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "By mid twenty twenty two, A year ago, there was expressed interest in the charter of the verifiable credentials working group in the w and using the Json web proofs work. As one of the representations of crypto graphics securing methods for verifiable credentials. And indeed, that was a self reinforcing positive thing that Rum stood up I'm putting words in your mouth, but I saying, oh, well, if a fellow standards organization is interested it in the Doing work to support their mission. That's a strong case that I can take to the And indeed, I believe he did. Thank you. So we have the boss. We re animated. And thanks especially to roman and the two chairs at the time, both of whom are present in front of the room for getting a through the discussions and the procedural hurdles to get where we are now. Next, I should credit it Jeremy for writing the bulk of these slides. Actually did diagram, something that I'm so bad at. So thank you, Jeremy remotely. To your diagrams, I added text as I am want to do. That of the three J p family specifications. One is kind of analogous to Jason web signature. It is the representation of the crypto format except in this case, can represent multiple integrity protected payloads, not just one. An algorithms draft which I give credit to Jim S"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "who chair the original Jose working group along with Karen, And originally, the individual drafts had the algorithms all smashed in with the signature part, and he said, no. Let's rev the algorithms separately. Put them in their own draft And indeed we have regis and we have many more algorithms since then. But following in this spirit of what the original Jose did, we have separated the algorithms specification from the container specification And finally, unlike the original Jose, were chartered to also do a token format where in fact, historically, the Jason Webb token format occurred in the Ola working group. But with many of the same cast of players and similar calls, So that's the grand tour. Above the line, there's some examples of some of the algorithms that early versions of that are already written down The stuff that's in green is more solid than the stuff that's in blue. And that's okay. What we're beginning this work. Next. some of the design considerations So let's talk about Jeremy and the rest of us who've worked on this that had in our minds as we did the work Next. So there's three inner inter related privacy features. Selective disclosure. There's and there's proof of knowledge. And we wanted to keep all of those in mind and enabling them. While realizing that just like the original"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "Jason Well web algorithm spec had different algorithms, some of which had different characteristics. You know, Aes Gc has different characteristics than Cbc, etcetera, we were gonna have to have a flexible enough format that we could represent Bb pbs and other algorithms and Ck sn and new things that are coming down the pipe. I readily admit, I am not a crypto for... I wasn't ten years ago when I worked on the container format for signing an encryption. The good news is we do have real crypto photographers working with us on that some of them at Microsoft Research some of them in the Cfr So at least I have people that I trust all of us do that we can ask questions like how stupid is this thing that we're doing and can we fix it? Next. So advanced crypto photography is already kind of hard enough. So we're trying to apply the kiss principle. Keeping things as simple as possible. And Jeremy wrote this, it's both the joke and true that we've tried to keep in mind the original what would jose do? And try to do things as analogous as possible. To the... I think time proven decisions that have resulted in the widespread adoption of Jason Web signature, Jason web encryption, Json web key, and the Jason Web token. We both want to explore techniques that are adaptable today while keeping in mind that we want to enable the writing of drafts as some of these more advanced techniques come into Pap."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "Popular use that we're flexible enough to do that. It is a balancing act. I expect many of you will be involved in tipping the scales of that balance and I look forward to great discussions. Next. So let's talk about how Jason web proof specs are and are not like Json Web signature. Next. So here's an example. Those of you who code in earnest about token formats and side stuff recognize that the Json web signature has three parts by periods, all of which are based sixty four Url encoded header a payload, and a signature. Text. Indeed, the protected had a header in the compact serial sterilization. The payload representation and the signature. Next. Or what does that Jason web proof look like? It looks a lot the same. That is on purpose. We were lucky in the way the web designers divided the Url safe character set. Those that you can present in a Url without escaping. That there was one character left. Is which is our friend Ti, which I believe is ask a hundred and twenty five decimal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "back from my days in high school where I knew all the character codes. We use that to separate the different payload representations because indeed, there's multiple selectively payloads for most of these algorithms. That you want to be able to have some of, but not all of and when you're presenting next. And so this is the overlay of Jason what proves data structure contains? That again, Unsurprisingly, a protected header payloads plural, separated by from the tel character and a proof. Now there's also in the specs adjacent serial sterilization just like there was a adjacent serial for Jason web signature and Jason web encryption. Understanding those as an exercise left to the reader and I want you to all be readers. Next. So here is a presentation the original examples had three payloads this presentation chooses to disclose only one of them. Turns out the first one in order. And the tilt are still there to say, And this one is missing and this one is missing. Like Pro rock nods from the back. Next, These are links to our specification These are not currently, Jose working group. Specifications like we do in the It. They are individual specifications In this case draft jeremy miller dash I jose indicating intent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "to have them be adopted as working groups applications. The working group currently has no adopted specifications. Next. So what do we do? Next. I think the logical thing for us to do is adapt these three specifications as working group items to enable us to start this work as a working group. These are not done. Things will be changed. Things will be added. Things may be removed. That's the way we do it in the, and that's a good thing. But idea view this is a viable starting point from which we can improve and evolve. Next. And so the question for us as always is what would jose do? Thank you. Hold on. Michael you're in the queue? Thank you for that presentation. And thank you especially to Jeremy for all the slide work there because I I've seen your slides before. yeah here And those are not necessarily the same. The... No. I... I'm strongly a favor of this is a starting place. It's it's a really good set of building blocks to which can be leveraged. Many useful and good things, and I am happy to contribute work not having worked on these drafts yet. But work especially around security considerations and notes around that area. So... And I should say, I'm a remiss and not crediting Cfr g"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "in the slides for taking up work on algorithms for Dbs. That's part of the reason why we have some confidence that in these drafts, we can have a tanner for matt representation for a registered Bb algorithm because real photographers are working on that. And indeed to tobias look in the room is one of the people who to get them there, and is helping move that forward. So thank you to bias for that contribution as well. Alright. Or steele. So I participated in some of the incubation work at the Decentralized Identity Foundation I'm strongly supportive of having a Json and url all encoding safe presentation for zero knowledge proofs. Love to continue to work on on these as a adoption adopted drafts within the jose working group if that's possible. And I'm really excited about Bb pbs and what it can do for privacy. While at the same time having the developer experience feel as familiar as it can to the large number of developers that have worked with And build secure systems on top of it. Thank you. Any other comments or questions? Any discussion at all. Upgrade device. There you are? Sorry. It was taking a while to drive this ...yeah. So just to add that strong supporter of this work is is mike reference and working on one of the algorithms that I think sense a chance of being really well compatible with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "this representation format. So... And I think the drafts are great starting place. For this looking group. Like Par barrack, I did have one other note in addition to Bb, there is quite a bit of work in the lattice side on things that very closely resemble what were used two with zero knowledge proofs for from a curve based approach or pairing based approach. It's still early, but these things are starting to look real and starting to hold up to scrutiny in particular, I know there was presentation today at another conference around a daily lithium based approach. I've also seen a falcon based approach published on. So its area that would directly translate through to this it's not that there's just one disclosure or zero knowledge base approach that would come in here. There's multiple things that we'll build as they become ready. Because I'm quite stanford at microphone. Because I'm not a crypto photographer. Yes. I'll ask if you can give us the thirty seconds summary. Where is this work being done? And what are the motivations for the work? Yeah. The the motivations for the work are the same as behind the motivations for Bd and related... So B signatures and parent curves that tobias is working on, which is it would be really nice to have a way to have one single signature set where we're not having to go through would sign each individual element the way we do with S j t's. Right? Or with the Md docs from the Iso side. And so a method of actually having a single signature that represents all the bodies that you could go in and verify even if you don't have not received all the material. And so that's that's a key motivation there. And to do that without necessarily having to have anything other than a self contained you know, signed package. Where the work has been done to date has been primarily starting at places like Ibm research"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "etcetera and then spitting out into the academic publishing world, very typical crypto type I I be Zurich or Yes. Z is the main stuff that I'm aware of. Michael Os would be a great one to engage with some of this. We talk with him on a lot of the post quantum stuff. In fact, I think he's an author not just on one of the post grabs jose that probably would have come here if this group existed because our motivation was Jose first. A secondary there. But he's also working on the lamps stuff in that area. So they there there are folks definitely engaged in this. And as it continue, you know, as as it refine right, through the research process I'm sure Cfr g would be a natural next step for that stuff. Before it then moves into something like Jose. Thank you for the background leg. Print? Brent Just here to also throw support behind J and bringing in these three work items. Volunteering to help right if that would be useful. Or still just one more comment to add to what Mike said. One of the reasons to considers aero knowledge proofs based on lattice problems is the hardness the hardness problems is different than curve discrete log. And, you know, with quantum, we're concerned about some of those you know, well established for based hard problems. And so the those lattice approaches that are being developed having something familiar that's that's based on them, but that's familiar to the interfaces that we might build with what we're more familiar with. Although pairing friendly curves are also fairly new. Yeah. It's that discrete problem is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "A problem. We will but do we one go ahead and here. Seems reasonable. Okay. So we don't have anybody else in the queue. So we were going to do a poll about adopting these documents. Working group and then we can your your eyebrows are raised. Is this wrong or... Yeah. Okay. Like So So we will need to take this to the list in any event but So we we we'll have to take this to the list to to finalize the adoption, but it would be good to get a sense of the room to see if There were any objections? Okay. So with that, we have started the poll. Does everybody say it on your end? Okay. So vote the poll. Oh, there we go. Answer being raised. Excellent. So we have about fifty people in the room, or fifty people in the session. I should say. Add one in Mark me being in favor rather than me walking back to my laptop right now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "Here. I'll tell what raise my hand and see if that helps. There you go. On your behalf. Okay. I I think we have We don't appear to have anybody that's supposed. So with that, we will take it to the list. Thank you. Somebody joined the queue and then popped it back out. Okay. So maybe those were mistakes. Okay. Does anybody else have At least your error was not as bad as me uploading slides. So Oh, he's in and out. Alright. So with that, Is there any more discussion on that topic? No. Thank you very much, Mike. We'll take it to the list. I need to stop the queues. Thank you. Yeah. So we found Yes. So note takers, can you record that? I don't understand what Why pose. Okay. Well, what would do is we'll just say unanimous. We don't whatever none opposed or there's Oh, yeah. So does there... Alright. Let's just do an old fashioned home. There we go. Everybody home who's in favor of adopting these three documents. Excellent, everybody who's opposed. Excellent. Now I can't figure out why this won't go away on my screen. It's not on this screen that's on that screen. So the next thing we have on the agenda is I believe Daniel. Are you here, Daniel?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "I believe this draft primarily for the Lamps working group. But they were going to present here. Pardon We're back to the... No. The poll is still there. I don't know why not going away. If Daniel is not here I I have least read off it it's submitted to lamps. It register key purpose ids for for use... When you use jose say with x five zero nine certificates. It popped up in the who see a group because it has the name jose see somewhere in the dol. Name Don't think it's aimed. For could working group. So I think the presentation was more for information. And asking in the working group for for input. Okay. So with that, we are at the we're going We were gonna go back to that. No. No. No. Not that button. Wrong button. But So lorenzo is interesting maybe But but but it it's I mean, you come look at my screen and explain to me why. There's no dismissed. The third screen. Exit full screen."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:05",
    "text": "Not the comes. Do I have to reopen the voting? Case. Remove So maybe real all. That's what I just did. And then I just hit this mess. Look. Thank you for that. Michael that helps a lot. Okay. So this was the any other business. We did add a single milestone today which was the adoption of these drafts by lie We have not defined any additional milestones yet. We will we will want to do some of that work. Is there specific things you wanted to go address beyond that. Pardon and you've approved milestone. We do officially have a first milestone. And you're... We do have we do have a charter. It was, like, Okay. K. We do have a charter item as I pointed out. Around a use case document. Do we want to develop said document And should we have a milestone around that? We thought it was important enough to put in the in the charter. Justin's at the mic. Yeah. And on... Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "I I was just waiting for the go ahead. Hi. Justin Richard, use case documents are sort of a strange beast. In that they tend to be very helpful in making sure that a working group is going in the direction that everybody agrees that they're supposed to be going in but in terms of actual deliverable artifacts, they often They often basically out their usefulness. As time goes on. And I've seen groups put an ex exorbitant amount of effort into getting a use cases document over the line. Only to basically run out all of the energy in the group to getting any actual work done. I hate to see that happen here. And so the approach that I have done in other groups is to have an informal non deliverable non milestone use cases document, at the level of a wiki page. That the group can basically dump potential use case information into, but not necessarily keep around as a deliverable. I I don't know how like Roman would want to like tag and track that in this particular group know in other groups we've said, it's on a wiki, and then that's fine. That's that's the question. Right. And I and I'm saying that was a dumb idea. Well, we appreciate that feedback. We have we got rough consensus to play it that way. So we could certainly revisit it So that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "We would never do such a thing. But it but it is a non standards track document. That we committed to is our milestone Think this yep in an informational document. So the the... I guess the question to the to the area directors can we have develop an informational document on the wiki. Right So... No. I mean, we said we're making an informational document. You can't... You kept that on the wiki because it's not informational. Can the work group decide that they wanna re this in not deliver on that. Absolutely. But that's a consensus is. So for the moment, do we have anyone who wants to start working on said doc if we don't have any prospective authors, then that would indicate a delay. One option is to work on my informal document and then never publish it. Yes. Park. That was for example, what the lake working group didn't couple of years ago. So what what customer moment and what often happens in practice is that the actual specification an introduction. And that is likely to mention some use cases in some requirements. And there goes your mind. You are not going to have a the specification without any information about responded It's going to happen."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "I think the answer at this point is we're just starting out. I think we basically ask them you know, send to the mailing list asking for a contribution around this topic and see what we get. Where we end up with. I don't think we need to decide today with the future of this particular goal is. Okay. Anything else on milestones? Think that's it. The moment, test vectors probably follow on. After some classification. Yeah. And I guess the cozy document can also wait or be included in the other. Justin, did I just not take you out of the queue? Michael. Yes. Michael Per. A question on the milestones before we leave them and this actually has overlap with the C jose side. So for instance, with post quantum signature drafts that are now three we would have taken him that the Jose first. Had Jose jose existed at the time. And obviously, we're defining both. We have a similar opportunity now to take a draft for Ask on two one or the other. Could go either way. Is there a preference between taking drafts in here and defining, you know, the side alongside it or, you know, if we're defining Json first, or you know, what what's the preference here? Yeah. I don't think it's in the chocolate to do these things, but the the ad maybe become Well, the last point says building upon And C locations and defining sea board based representations corresponding to the above. That's why I'm asking So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "We're defining the container format for these new algorithms. I'm not sure what about these new algorithms as they're approved by as they're approved would change it J p and what So what would we... What would we be defining differently as a result of these new algorithms. I guess the question. We're not defining those algorithms here. Right. We're defining the representations of how we store the keys. Right like that. And so the question is is if you've got something that could either go here and find both. You know, Jose and Jose, or should we just split, Right? Should we have one draft for each? We should have a container format that can support all of these new algorithms and make sure that what we're developing is inclusive of the various algorithms as they're Apply. So I'm not not sure that it's really case of coming here or there. We should make sure that the algorithms as they're approved can be supported by what we develop. So I guess the answer is here. Okay. Did... I understood the question as being about post quantum signature and ask on, not about being selective zero knowledge proves That it said it was nothing short. But maybe I me Misunderstood the question. Right? I... So we may have Yeah... Yeah. Sorry. To... So to clarify"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "there are things coming out that are not necessarily zero knowledge proof but could benefit from having Jose representations etcetera. So that's the question. For things like that, do we take that? Do we take that here or are we limiting this to just things that are zero knowledge groups selected disclosure only, etcetera. So can I? Let me try to ask that question in a simple way. Or are you asking there jose maintenance to do. That's not zero dollars proof kinda specific, where do we do that work? Yes. I think we do it here. I think that was my Go ahead, Mike. I'm going back to the test vector deliverable. I will say that Jeremy has been good about whatever we put something in the algorithm draft that there is a machine generated test representation of the use of the algorithm such that it could be verified by independent implementations. That's kind of where I started out with John and others when we were doing Json web signature and encryption. That we wrote real examples with real code and then eventually, Matt Miller showed up out of the kindness of his heart. And wrote R seventy five twenty, which was a representation of uses of every algorithm we define, and I eventually wanna do that, but the news as we are generating all the examples in the thing with code already. Go ahead, Carson."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "Yeah. I think Mike said it I'm going to say it again. You won't test vectors in the sense of examples that go into the defining document. Plus you want to have a more extensive set of test. So people can test out the corners of the implementation that don't necessarily need to be touched in the exposition that the defining document as needs. And you can do these two things at different times. You can give some of the test vectors in the Go ahead, Justin. Justin Richard, one of the most useful tools that is in sort of the the Jose community. Is not a Jose document. Did not come out of the. It's dot I o. And I can't tell you how many times that I've used that tool and I've in order to test things in order to test coatings and in test content and all of this other stuff. And I want to encourage this group to customer, I think was was kind of getting at this. Maybe think outside of the sort of the core specification for the kinds of things it'll be useful to a wider community And... Because, you know, Rf are not the best container for everything. One of the things for example, we've done with Hp web signatures. Is we've got h v sig dot org. Where you can go in and plug in your own messages and test the little Python signer that runs it and get test vectors in and out as much as you want all day long. We didn't include all of that. In"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the Rf we didn't include all of those same things as direct examples in the Rf because there that would make it many, many, many, many more long with very diminishing benefits. So for this kind of stuff, yeah. Absolutely get. As comprehensive course that as makes sense. But perhaps, you know, look to wider artifacts for capturing more things. Okay. So that brings us back to any other business. I think we've talked a fair bit about milestones. You can look to the mailing list for a call for contributions against any of these milestones. We'll do the call for adoption. And And so we... Part of that means we want to start getting feedback on the documents that we have. The the next thing I I I put down here virtual interim sport. I really met with like, way of working. So one of the things we talked a little bit about help Was this use case this document there. There is the I Ihs wiki do we wanna make more use of that for documenting these kinds of things. The question is the documents... Mike are we planning to use github? What way of working would you or Jeremy here. The documents are already in Github repository named Jason Webb proofs. It started that way when it was a decentralized identity foundation they were named in a generic way such that we could transfer continue working in that github repository. In the Should the Have choose to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "adopt the documents. So I believe it would be at least my preference keep using the Github repository where already have And I believe there's links to it in the front matter of all three documents. Yeah. I I think what we we might want to do is add a link to it under additional resource or something like that on the working group page. As opposed Right. Just just to way we we don't have a I a get we're gonna be using a separate... I can understand that wanting move them that wanting to rename them. But we do need to point to them in as many places as possible. Yes. There there was a whole group that discussed how to do this. If you have a good reason to deviate delete from that from that? But there was some thinking going on that I would recommend doing what that went group proposed because it has worked well impact And repo can be transferred between organizations. Okay. So the first thing is to get a github organization and then see which report repository is to what to have yeah. This is Justin. Yeah. Second what Carson said, moving and get repo. Is really, really, really easy. Like, using that as an excuse to not do things the right way is is is ridiculous. You know, the main the main thing that you get is ownership and control by the chairs. When when you move it over to you an actual managed organization repo. And that can be really helpful when editors cycle out."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "Which does happen over time. Or documents cycle in and out or, you know, any other kinds of things that may happen in terms of management of something over time. Done many documents and personal repo. I've done many documents and company repo and I've done documents. Here, that's it's better to do with Tools. Yeah. But when data point when you move a repository and github, It remains accessible under the viewer team. So there there is no You don't lose things. Yeah. I I personally agree, we also seems like we will have document that are not really related to json on web proves. So Otherwise, we we will have need another get anyways, Yeah. I And I personally don't much care either way. I just want a decision or I want to know what we're gonna do and And I knew that they weren't currently in a Jose repository. Right. I believe there's not currently a Jose repository. Justin, I don't think there's anybody making excuses. It's just you know, we have something that's working we're perfectly willing Add believe to work with the chairs to move it under whatever the then correct. It f processes is are I... I'm not up to date on that, but maybe Yeah. I mean, the left... Talk with people who are and that's fine. Right. There there's been a lot of evolution of these tools, and I haven't looked at them quite recently to see exactly what doing Know they're better than they were. But anyway, so I'm sensing a desire to move it under the Repository, and perfectly happy with that. We'll work. We somebody, not me. Whatever. We're doing something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "The last question I had was pace of work. Some communities work better, you know, they chug right along and they get things done and with three times a year Idea. Regular meetings, otherwise, a mailing list and other things. Other other groups work better with virtual interim. Keep the work moving. What we really don't wanna do and what I've seen a number of times over the years is just losing momentum. And it's just we we need to keep some sort of a paste so that we get this done. At in the time frame in which people that want to deploy and actually care about it. So I don't know Mike since at I don't know Jeremy's but I guess he's not on the queue. So I I don't wanna impose any deadlines or I think I don't wanna virtual interim if nobody wants them, but we're willing to do them if think it'll be useful. And this is our first meeting. So I'm trying to get some sense of what people want to do to keep stuff moving forward. I was David. Oh, there you go. You're there. Excellent. So I wanted to say that I've done administrative work on the correct Github have repo. So once there is a decision, I'd be happy to make any changes desired. I also wanted to say that in advance of those were group getting. Went ahead and reserve the Jose dash w g organization on Github. And so I'll be I'm turning that over to the chairs. Okay. Thank you. So back Back to the topic of virtual interim is I I... I'm not seeing a strong push to do them so I'm happy not to. Is there anybody here who wants to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "suggest that we do. Jeremy? Alright. You can... Yes can hear me? Yes. Go ahead. Excellent. I I I would like to see how how we do on mailing list and through Github. And if we're not really, you know, moving fast enough. By the next Meeting, we should definitely start scheduling virtual interim at that point, but I I think I I do hope that we can make a lot of progress between now and then just to the mailing the. Okay. Great. So with that we're end of the agendas is or there any other business? So With that all during the meeting, thank you everybody. Thank you for your patients with our occasional technical glitches. And See around the. How come going asking what jose would do? You know like So I I I what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:04",
    "text": "my point, like, I was this almost zero landline like, where's the? I find slides I"
  }
]
