[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:52",
    "text": "okay good afternoon everyone so okay let\u0027s start actually at this time we have small loon but actually on I hope we are more people via camp yeah okay let\u0027s start from there you know not where so we can say that the text of the load where this time it is not different from the previous one the major changes it\u0027s about IP are things which is defined enough say 81 79 you know actually yesterday there were lots of discussion on type er topics and so I think if people and join the discussion we can get more you know information from that discussion and so if you are you didn\u0027t join the discussion anyway we help you can the build is up say to get better understanding on IPR issues yeah so as usual we have the audio of the coding so please big implant of the mic and also state your name yeah before speaking and also yeah please stand the inside of the pink box so for the minute takers and we ask how many and so I think how me and Oscar they we hope has to take some minutes and also if anyone can take some minutes slow they use a pad that will be appreciated thank you yeah so for the chamber we also will monitor the chamber loom to see if there are some comments from the chamber loop so this meeting we have two sessions one is you know joint session are about young models yeah we which has been done yeah and the second one the right one which is they can specific you can get some you know pure information from the link so this time actually for this session we have two hour sessions so even though we have two hours actually you know you can see the agenda is still a little bit of pillage so we really hope that presenters could use their time slots efficiently and leave more time for discussion yeah as you\u0027d huge we always encourage people to use the menu list as much as possible and we can discuss anything technical things on the list for example we can discuss any open issues introduced any ideas and also we could use the main list to build up the you know our working group consensus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:56",
    "text": "let\u0027s proceed with the stages of the working group we don\u0027t have any new RFC since the meeting in in Chicago but we have a new draft in the editor queue which is the flexicord OSPF we decided to put it on all them and to let me say define new values against the gmpls as SCSI which is now which pasta della Scala and was approved at publication if a color to remember and so we decided who to use is use it as the basis for for the OSPF extensions that was practically it what else we have a lot of working group document discussed today the first of which is the DWDM interface management and control framework we just wanted to wanted to remind make you notice that we asked them for an earlier you of the document it was what we asked them for a for a review from at the Rockland electorate just to be sure that it reaches there a good quality before the della Scala there are four more drafts in the type we did our working group documents that will not be discussed today today first one is again there was bf extensions for flexibly second one is a lmps sanctions for flex agreed the property negotiation these this is expired I had a chat with with Schley he said that he will discuss with the others whether to move it on or drop it the next one is extensions to OSPF or availability this is another one that was waiting on the gmpls SCSI draft so we will now be able to move it along and this one will be followed by the rsvp-te extensions liaisons we have a lot of reasons we sent one to the itu-t study group of 15 in back in May regarding a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:56",
    "text": "flexi and asking for what their intention was regarding the flexi work we received a reply earlier in July it was posted on the on the list and the we received another liaison from the itu-t online update on their work on the OTN work plan and one from the birth broadband forum again regarding flex Ethernet and their intention on working on that topic so this is it for the administrivia we can start with the first presentation so my name is should be a concern and this is the management and control plane framework for DWDM interfaces we presented this draft many times and therefore I only go over the updates yeah just roughly so the main motivation for us is to achieve interoperability for optical interfaces that are outside the classic DWDM network and yeah the way to achieve this is using a common model managing and controlling this kind of interfaces let\u0027s go to the modifications we did since Chicago so we have a new co-author added so Julian from Orange joined the document and gave a lot of good comments and supported quite a well the new version was submitted in July so two weeks ago document was updated twice since March we addressed all the comments from the list did a lot of rephrasing again and error correction and we hope that we approve the entire eight ability readability of the of the document so let\u0027s have a short look on the details so I updated the introduction section so we were written that yeah we have you did this completely new and then we updated all the figures explaining the the the text and harmonizing the text and the figures a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:57",
    "text": "little bit more we updated as well the control plane consideration section of the document that the use case section especially didi first use case service set up and yeah then last but not least we updated the requirements section of the document as well that\u0027s what we did one thing is still open we have to update the the reference section so I run the unit\u0027s thing on the only tooth page there were some some minor things regarding the references so we have to do here a little bit more work and yeah then we think the document is ready for working group last call any question my name is Jana congrat I\u0027m from society I\u0027m a newcomer is my first idea ever so first of all really thanks for this document because it\u0027s for me it was quite nicely readable and so on I\u0027ve got one comment something more on the editorial point I notice that the text refers to a yellow triangle when it comes to diagrams and measuring points so just maybe removed over here all too okay thanks thanks I would like to thank you for the various drops that really helps distributing the work between one ATF and the other and not doing everything in the last week before the meeting and I think the readability is much better now and I would like to see if there is enough support to move the draft - La Scala after they did the changes you you still have to do so is let\u0027s put it the other way around does anyone object moving the draft towards the rascal the one that\u0027s great actually I think this version of this job - it\u0027s pretty good just one minor or comment please check if you use our app see 2119 anguish if you don\u0027t use this kind of negative please remove section 1.1 right and then we maybe we cannot move ohhh that Arjun asked oh yeah question we move to the next presentation thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:02",
    "text": "we welcome back a Giovanni thank you so Joanna Martinelli presenting you the update on the W son with an impairment validation information model as daniel said the the draft was a big door want and I mean I was off for the last year from the ATF but now we try to let\u0027s say finalize this work that is around since a while you know on the my co-editor this is no longer active in ATF why more will take his place do we move okay this light just to remind where we are with this draft so I mean the the the rough itself extend the w.zahn information model the one without impairment validation so they wanted is already RFC 64-46 and provide the definition for the new information required the other beautiful information just their mind that is independent or from control plane options at the time when all this work started PC was on I so everyone was looking at PC as a final solution now there are moral it\u0027s a reference tor was solution likes that goes as the end or or based on young the change in the draft was mainly editorial so there were several typos fixed said and the other idea was to remove the references to the encoding draft that I\u0027m going to present just after this one but basically the encoding shall reference - from infom although I would try to avoid the reverse direction so a remind of the context on the content of the draft there are two section that basically provide them from the definitions and some introductory test section 3 was the one that was disgusted with itu-t and include all the content from ITT then the remaining sections are relates more to IETF and control plane so from autos 10 points will likely need to have to go through an adhara let\u0027s say revision but since with something Apple will appreciate the working group having let\u0027s say careful reading and then we are ready to go for a last call so extra any question here I will take question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "then I will move to the other draft Thank You DJ for making me play with the red button I love it can I ask my question now yes sure right okay yeah I was actually wondering what the added value is of defining all these optical parameters without having a model for the optical visibility calculation I mean I have made that comment many times before I think this is still an unresolved issue in my opinion so yeah I remember some of your comments but I guess the there is in the document explanation why I mean the scope of the document what the kind of content and I mean parameters were somewhat discussed several times we say to tea I mean I I see that well they are references in the document referring to ITT recommendations where these optical parameters are defined that\u0027s not the issue the issue is well how how can you actually use these parameters because as long as there is no optical feasibility calculation model defined well how can you ensure that an optical part is feasible or not my guess Gabriel Francisco I think deter this this document let\u0027s say allow us or allow who wants to use those parameter to exchange the parameter from the network to the controller of course is not I think is not the objective of this working group defined in the algorithm and how to use those parameters maybe this argument are defined somewhere else or in some other organizations or consortium but not here or maybe we are just a media he has not a recommendation how to calculate those parameters or how to verify those yeah this is young I agree with the aliens yes I think you know this one just add additional parameters for path computation but the feasibility remain may come from some other system so we don\u0027t assume that you know this document should provide that so that\u0027s all right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:05",
    "text": "and by the way he stated within the documents this exactly in this way we provide the information and then the algorithm per se is let\u0027s say it\u0027s not our business so I think a deters comment means that actually unite UT there\u0027s no articulation impairment calculation or model and then even we have computed capability to exchange there you know our impairment information from the can Chaplin perspective but it does not make sense because there\u0027s no foundation to how to use it right yeah it\u0027s a big from that you know not not from the share point of view yeah Jake I think that everyone of knowledge is acknowledge that this is not the full solution to the big picture but it\u0027s chicken and Iraq seeing you we need to start with something standardized to start the next move and this is one of the first items I don\u0027t think the document is claiming to solve the full problem but it it remains useful on required that is written also in the text of one of section one or so and we can make example why you don\u0027t even need to define an algorithm has to apply I guess it\u0027s sort of custom I can be customize it for every I mean vendor or standard or whatever Edition like if I may you may okay is the set of optical impairment parameters complete or all their parameters missing that are needed in order to do optical feasibility calculation is complete according to the scope of the document okay you know you may take the issue read up to section three there should be enough answer to to your question with the proper references and the okay I also have don\u0027t but yeah I think this should be documented in a minute and that\u0027s fine okay thank you thank you did so shall we move next okay this draft is still an individual draft but I like to present all the other one because this provide the encoding to the information defined in the model so actually is a in this case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:08",
    "text": "we have only draft refresh there was a some major update presented in IETF while ago and here we just update the draft the draft take some interest with a new new modeling with new young draft coming on the working group so a quick refresh on the content so there is the optical parameter how is encoded then we call it impairment vector actually list of optical parameters and the extension to the impairment we call it impairment matrix actually is an extension of the connectivity matrix define it in another in the arab season seventy five seventy nine and the here probably providing an extension to the resource block information as well with the previous information so here our authors believe that is a ready for a working group adoption if there is interest in the working group in the Phi this kind of information for sure our working group adoption doesn\u0027t mean that that coding is a let\u0027s say complete ease we consider fairly stable there are some few open points but that\u0027s up to discussion for the working group I see detail on the line I don\u0027t know if I forgot to push the red button or you wanted to speak again I just another care forgotten to push the button I don\u0027t want to speak let me keep no no you can have another comment regarding the previous one you asked for the last call but there is a the chapter 5.4 in which there is a editor not that has to be completed now you can ask add another goal with the not completed section that\u0027s one of the clean opera and the wanna remove also their effort there is still one refers to the encoding draft that to me has to be remove it this is a minor section and there was only let\u0027s say some control plan consideration doesn\u0027t add let\u0027s say specific content to the blue stuff I agree with this I realized that has to be cleaner doctor questions against dissing your patient such was above us that produces draft regarding is one I would see Peter has a question here or no I would say they could know so this far from the mic okay okay thank you very much thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:22",
    "text": "hello my name is Eunice all day and I\u0027m gonna present two draughts about management and control of the microwave and millimeter way the interfaces and the first one is about the framework the status is that the draft was adopted by C camp in December last year and in since then we haven\u0027t really received any comments or feedback on on the framework draft but we submitted a new version of the framework draft in June with a purpose to take care of some comments that we received when the data model was adopted by the working group and those comments were related to wish to ensure that these activities are aligned in a good way with other similar activities within the industry mainly within the onf I would say so we made an update and included a clarification that the definition of the data notes believes in in the model should be based on established microwave equipment and radio link standards and they can be seen as some kind of a data plane standard for michael way than and millimeter way technologies right now there are no open topics that remains to be addressed and the framework has been used in the definition of the young data model and the design team the microwave design team considers the framework to be complete and we think that it\u0027s ready for a working group last call the second draft is the actual young data model for a microwave radio link we have presented this a number of times that I will repeat that it\u0027s a model for controlling and man searching the radio link interfaces themselves but also providing a good way to show the or manage the connectivity to other interfaces typically being available in in micro notes for example Ethernet interfaces but also other type or more called legacy interfaces such as TDM it of course follows the framework draft and supports the use cases and requirements defined in that draft one key characteristic is that it augments RFC 7223 and thereby it has a structure which is aligned with how other interfaces in a microwave node is expected to be managed it uses established microwave equipment and radio standards as a basis for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:22",
    "text": "further definition and it also uses the draft all bag and the onf microwave information models as the basis for the scope to be addressed by this young data model the status says that is was adopted by the working group in April this year and as I mentioned for the framework we received a couple of comments related to ensuring the alignment with other initiatives with industry and as already mentioned we decided to do that by including a clarification that it should be based on these established standards and we believe if we refer to these and other initiatives within the industry also based their work on this type of standard we can ensure a good alignment within the industry we\u0027ve also added a subsection explaining that some of the attributes in the Augmented 7223 may not be applicable or relevant for the radio link model we\u0027ve done a couple of model changes I have slides for that so I will touch upon that later on and we\u0027ve also made some improvements in some of the descriptions of of the data notes there are two new co-authors in this evasion of the document and that actually means that all major vendors within the microwave industry is now participating in supporting the work we are doing here which is very good I would also like to mention that we have started to validate this modeling practice by participating at the ITF hackathon earlier this week there two applications Sdn applications were implemented one related to energy efficiency and another one related to dynamic frequency control and that was implemented on top of an open source ODL Sdn controller which had an implementation of the this young data model for microwave and we actually received the award for Best Overall and if you\u0027re interested you can see more of this at bits and bytes later today one change that we are done is actually removed one data node and that\u0027s the data no the aurochs frequency config which was used to determine if oryx frequency should be based on or calculated from duplex distance instead we have clarified in the description of the two data nodes that oryx frequency will be calculated based on duplex distance if duplicate instance is the only parameter provided in the configuration statement otherwise its "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:22",
    "text": "will be taken from the aurochs frequency value provided in the configuration statement the other change we\u0027ve done is that we\u0027ve added a new identity for external commands in the protection area we\u0027ve added the identity for forced switch which means that the traffic is switched to a protecting carrier and is forced to remain there even if the protection right here indicates that it\u0027s ok to switch back again and the working group or sorry the design team considers the young-dal a data model work to be completed we are currently working on a restructuring according to the nmda architecture we have a proposal which we have already received some feedback on and we see that there is a possibility to make it independent of the changes that will take place in RFC 72 23 and we will be able to publish such an update fairly soon and we are asking for a working group loss column on this young data model as well thank you so thank you first of all congratulations on winning the best overall project at the a katana early this week to you and everyone in the team some comments the first one coming from a discussion with the Lu that couldn\u0027t come today because of overlapping sessions which is to try to make another effort to see what can be generalized in the sense that the microwave worker is all fork is mic microwave technology is as a variable bitrate by definition there are other technologies in which we can have a variable bitrate like for example elastic optical so this could be an opportunity to try to make this work a little bit more general this doesn\u0027t mean I mean it\u0027s too late to start with a brand new work possibilities and then I do technology specific extensions here but there are some minor changes that could help to the focus on this one of these it would be for example my personal opinion in the work in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:22",
    "text": "frame worker just add I don\u0027t know few lines saying that these most of the considerations done in in the document might also be applicable to other other tech variable bitrate technologies this is just in my opinion just a minor updater to the framework nothing nothing else in CDT on the other side had updated to the model could be a little bit more significant I don\u0027t expect super major changes I see two options one could be to have a new document which is which includes the generic part and then leave the technology microwave specific extensions here or within the same document just to split the the model and say this part is can be generalized can be applicable to other technology this part is a purely purely immaculately Amy here from Huawei I personally will prefer the second option I think that would be more flexible to go for I guess the sir on passion 1 compare - one comment I mean you mentioned here that there is I saw that there is a reference to the Etsy that it\u0027s to the Etsy document right oh yes yes so if the in the young model there are some parameters and that\u0027s that parameters are coming from that you can can\u0027t you add the reference there a in the in the Jiang model itself forcibly there\u0027s some parameter that is defined in there but you could just in the in the model justice at the reference and if in some cases if there are some values that have some restriction or or can only have some values because they are defined or there is a range that is defined that way in unity also if you can add that sort of restrictions today to the document I can just mention that we started doing that based on this Etsy 302 to 170 and I think there are seventeen sections or seventeen different version or chapters or paragraphs or standard documents in that series and it turned out at least when I try to resolve this that they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:22",
    "text": "there\u0027s a sort of a circular reference between all these seventeen so - it was very difficult to be very strict on exactly which document out of those seventeen but a specific parameter what had was defined so that\u0027s why I rounded up and say okay let\u0027s just refer to the Sailor set of [Music] documents these 70 but where we can look into that again okay at least if some of them are come so here in our case in idea it happens the same there are many cases where the same is having several RFC\u0027s but then in the end you put two one RFC what is a what is they considered as the the main the main source so that same happens to us in optical with ideal that sometimes is hard to find in which document you\u0027ll find define the N or the M or something like that back in the end you need to put some some record thank you Thanks giovanni speaking just a quick comments regarding related to the fact that you major analyzed some parts something that they see but i\u0027ve seen already somewhere else regarding protection part so were you always see you know mono switch for switch and actually i don\u0027t know if you have a controllable priority who wins against the two likely false but you know some may be heard statement over are diction-carrie this kind of apartment I mean just as no as a suggestion but but important I didn\u0027t want to let people would wait for me to longer okay thank you a meter woozy I\u0027m presenting for the transport MBI design team and they stay to sub data of what has been done from last IDF meeting so what is the the transport the design team or the motivation for design team is the fact that in the IDF we are developing multiple Yamada\u0027s which are oblique that could be applied at the MBI of the transport Sdn controller but we have got two questions we want to answer is how in this Yamada\u0027s actually applies at the transport networks and the second one is if there are any gaps in the car in your model IDF is developing when used for transport network er to answer to these two questions the design team is looking at what are the use cases that we that has to be addressed at the Transport MBI and we are analyzing in detail how would the ITF Yamada\u0027s can you will be used to address these use cases and the working matter that we have is we have a design team analysis given the bigger number of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:22",
    "text": "people in the design team and we all almost weekly conference calls on Wednesday at 3 p.m. European time were to to discuss a contribution of an issue and we have it we have a github area where we\u0027ve told all our minutes and documents and Franco Kinshasa as sort of the first deliverable is a use case description in the internet draft which has been updated since the last idea of meeting we we have added the some description of the protection scenarios for use case number one for the single domain single layer scenario and we are planning to complete this document by addressing in order of priority first we got feedback that people wants to see more multi domain iographer the multi layer so we will go with a use case number three next step we will complete the some of the services for use case number one and then we can go and look at the multi layer and single domain a multi-layer multi-domain EU schism this draft has been created by collecting input from different as do so and we try to describe by the use cases that have to be supported by the transfer VI where without making any assumption about which young model is going to be used that instead in the analysis that we started in one neutral after this being published before this ITF meeting which is analyzing in details how the ITF Yamada\u0027s can be used to address the use case number one and we have a provide an example of how and ody topology can be exposed as a transport NPI how a transit service so I know do transit and adieu starting from to see can transit to a transport network we have provided detailed JSON code examples so we\u0027ve wrote down in detail so this is own code and we are also validating that the example that we are providing are fully compatible compliant with a year model so it\u0027s a formal validation that syntax is compliant with a Yamada definition and the next steps is to reformat at this example because if you look at the drafter we just provide a pointer to the github since it doesn\u0027t fit the code that we generate it doesn\u0027t fit in a 72 chatez and where we were too close to the submission deadline to fix this editorial issue we need to align this example to the latest year modest the Yamada\u0027s in the meanwhile has been updated so you have to either adapt the example to the new models we want to equate them we need to complete the use case number one are the protection of scenarios example and maybe we will start a new draft for the use case number three in our system in addition to the Internet of the river boss we have also other deliverables which is a feedback sir that we are we are provided as an output of our discussions and analysis to different working groups so the first point we got us a comment last the meeting to qualify what are the assumption we are making on the on the trees working group activity so we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:23",
    "text": "assuming the llamo decision model Arabic applicable to the actn MPL interfaces are as defined in the Younger applicability draft in tiesm and is we made it very spicy too and it looks like that the assumption is is good for our worker we are assuming we are making an assumption that how the tea eternal motor can be used to set up the tunnel segments and as result of this assumption we have triggered some discussion in teaser which is still ongoing so there are different opinions of among these people but we are continuing this assumption because we don\u0027t have any counter proposal at this moment so we will align with the outcome of this discussion when it is completed we made an assumption that when you have to configure the labels in the our example we were considering time zones but I think the issue is generic on the inter domain links or on the assess links since this link the two ends of the DS links are belonging are controlled by different PLC\u0027s it Soliday MDC is the only entity that key that cannot allocate a label which is available on both sides so the assumptions that the label is decided by the IDM DSC based on some information which is a label set information that the two pians is provided to the mdac and because of this we got we gave some feedback to the Titan and topology model which have been updated to provide the level set information and also we have an open issue last time when we indicate an S this is a route object an another interface we have a clarification that the route ID interface ID are actually the node ID and linked EP ID in the T topology information and that was a useful clarification for people that needs to use the model last three Beck\u0027s base thanks to the idea for the fact that we are validating our json codes with the Yamada\u0027s we have also find during the validation process that there were some mistakes there are syntax mistakes in the Yamada\u0027s developed by T\u0027s and we provided this feedback to the auto switch have fixed them orders and for the detail for the feeder to the cecum working group we have dedicated slides at the end of the presentation okay I will wait to be fast this is presenting the use case number one we have already spent similar slides in the ITF 98 so at this moment in time we are focusing on this interface the interface between the MDS Seanna Transpo PFC we will not cover what happens on the interface between MD SEM and IP apse because it\u0027s outside of our scope and we will we are we will later cover maybe the CMI for transport services and so today we are here and we are considering this type of topology for single layer single domain as an oto topology and so you can see the Aster topology will you will have an abstract node for every physical node and we use the same naming to clarify to make it easy to understand how the our start node on the NPI maps to the physical node in and physical network elements we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:23",
    "text": "assume that on the reuters is not visible and the NPI but we have shown here to make the example easier to understand and we as we have found that there is a some information a tree topology model the external domain container that provides enough information that allows that the mdac to know that for example ruther one is attached to the transport network to the s3 one FTP and the Rooter three is attached to the transporter through the s6 at to LTP such that if the MDS scene is to create connectivity between route r1 and Rooter tree it has to request that to the transport domain controller to set up an audio Tanner segment starting from s 3 1 and then into s TX 6 2 and this is done and the assumption is that the English and the Integris points of this Tanner will be indicated in this PC root object this is the assumption that we have today which not everybody in tis agree with but this what we are doing today and we will fix when we have write instructions this is an example this some code from our example we can we are since we are doing a some validation we are putting real identifiers 1 and you will see also in the addressing scheme sir and to make it more easier we agreed we have put a sort of convention to do the comment and we will slip the comments will be sitting down from the coder before the validation so we have to follow some conventions on the way we put the comments in it since the tunnel is not terminated the de soutien destination TP ID should not be provided there and we put there\u0027s a commerce or the reader understand that he doesn\u0027t need to provide that is not something we have forgotten we can indicate that the time that is V Direction our core rooted though we have enough information in the tea tunnel model and we have also validated the information that is in the OTA and augmentation for developers I see Campa for for configuring the times not send to flock to you the switching capability at the edge of the domain and for the for the explicit part that we can indicate the English interface on as we know that we use the Rooter ID is the node ID of a stream and we appeal formatted ostlers accordingly and yes 1/3 LTP this part will change because the tea topology tunnel models change the name of this to a table to make it more easy to understand what they are the yarn compared to the topology model so what is the current state to serve for about the Sikh Empire okay we were expecting some use case a gap analysis we are expecting a some work on the machine your models and the guidelines so we have published the use case addressing the first point and we have started to publish the analysis for use case number one and we have given feedback to tease about issues on the exist in your modules we have not yet in the final Amadas but maybe in the next phase we will identify new young models "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:24",
    "text": "to develop what is this it is already six months we are working we have also made some considerations about what we have done well so far what has to be improved so what has been done well in our opinion is that we have been able to gather information from other SEO about their use cases we have got input from O\u0026F participants and from nef participants about what they are considering and we have taken all the use cases into account while developing our set of use cases and we have this an very good tool that helps us to develop the young digital code and to check that they are correct against the young coder and this we think this is a very good idea because it is we are getting a very good quality exam which can also be put onto some code see running implementation what we would like to to improve we would like to improve the getting feedback from other as the own especially on the solutions we have we have started to circulate the information about our what we would like to get more information about what they think about what we are doing and we will I caution to speed up the work on the analysis I do more more work to do they the heart start the at work at the beginning is to have everybody on the same page to understand out to work understand how to use the tools that has been done now we have to just do the examples we have the process on developing the examples has been started up and now we should be a little bit faster the next steps now if there is to go to use case number trim the multi-domain ask consideration sir we got some feedback from people that make the kink that a discussion that ended up with a need to have the available level sets the edge interface is something generic not only applicable to young so there is an idea that maybe we need to propose to PC to do some extension to piece up to provide equivalent information we are planning to do some discussion about applicability of transpose API for the network licensees we think ICT and is applicable for metro slicing transported VI is therefore part of a CDN and we we don\u0027t know yet and we will decide whether the current use cases are already sufficient to cover time as I said we need to develop additional use cases so that\u0027s something to be discussed and we would like to have to socialize what we are doing with the other as the o in particularly or an F and any F so let\u0027s complete the state to subject thank you I\u0027m starting to understand the why people complain that Italian speaking too fast control next time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:24",
    "text": "please someone gonna compensate by speaking real and slowly right are you in touch with open areum sorry if I asked if you\u0027re in touch with the open rock them knockers oh we don\u0027t have contact with opera Odom I don\u0027t know if do you have any contact reference oh okay okay don\u0027t definite your friends I\u0027m just interested in this game okay we can we can lose it a good point well actually regarding this this search hadn\u0027t so which has high socialization relation of the draft we could appeal with reasons and communications this is something that we can do however once the draft our working group document okay because it\u0027s not not that good individual contributions even if it\u0027s more than individual another thing you said that you provided inputs to feedbacks to tease them under what what shape beauty that I don\u0027t remember our emails on the list we have sent some emails and we have participated to the design team course from detangle and tea topology okay that\u0027s great one may not comment for the next step I think also on you need to talk to or have some coordination with the egos draft you know because yeah that draft also describes a news case but you know transport not want interface yes so to avoid if there are some conflict yeah yeah that\u0027s a good good point I agree I\u0027m just referring to the previous question about operating mmm so our design team is dealing with the NBI aspect so it is to be understood if you heard am that my view is device model is related to our work yeah we could be part of maybe the question we raise to them when we socialized the situation repair - of course we are focusing on these interfaces yeah yeah yeah the comment is right it\u0027s we are speaking about a network model against versus device model so we could try to understand if there is a support for adopting the drafter so first of all look how many people have read the draft I\u0027m speaking about the first one that they use cases the list of the use cases almost "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:29",
    "text": "everyone who is in favor of adopting it as a working group document almost the same number which is almost everyone in the room we will obviously take this to the list but it seems this report is pretty good okay thank you thank you hi Oscar nonetheless telefónica so now we are going to go in another of these draft that is technology specific in this case is the please clean the damn model for the class dude optical network so you can move forward so we\u0027re gonna speak about these two draft that came from one okay so why do we need this model if we look at the topology itself we have the T topology which you know genetic it is splitted into the layer 3 topology also we have a the tablets on model here but we do not have yet a model to cover the details of the place grid optical network so we consider it is interesting also that you can request you can modify you can apply a work with flexi allocation with optical network that is please get ready which it differs a little bit from the revolution so here we proposed a set of young models to be able to manage discrete optical networks all the concepts are based on the stable it\u0027s already generated a definite framework document that we did some some years ago all the concepts are there and basically what we aim at doing is be able to represent the in the that in a topology that when we ask for that apology we are able to show the details of of flash grid we are able to show the details of the transponders and we are able to establish in the space that let see that are flexible LSPs or SS one less piece over the word project okay so can you move to the next one okay so what is a so what did we change from the previous version so in the previous version we had everything in a single document but now we have acceded "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:31",
    "text": "into one it is just devoted to the two-day topology so we have a dated to to keep it compatible with the later stages of the T topology maybe here at this point we still need some discussions with you guys to see which is the best way to to go from the generic model to the technology specific model I saw that I got had some comments today for the Odeon model so I guess those very same comments would apply here in the way to do it another difference that from the previous track is that there are some the C non-standard parameter for the transponder that we remove for example we refer to a slice voltage ponder so that is they say by now until that is define minute or something like that we\u0027d take that out and some some minor changes as forcibly is this lot they followed with generality that is added there okay so the the other version that we have is the extending the the tunnel model is the drop to define the that Leslie media channels so this one settlement that the tunnel and here there are some some parameters or some new parameter for somebody like the link channel that reduces the LSP here also some is worth mentioning also here we include all the innocent lead in detail the intended configuration so do this you want some in an M for the place to be LSP and then you might get a different thing because maybe the granularity is different and so on so we defend it also between the state configuration and the and the population okay so the models in both of them flower invalided with all the all the other tools so they are working now and so now even though there are we think that there are still some some work to do and for example here the in the case of the course that if to make it coherent with the traffic engineer models in the model as termination points also so there are still some few things that and that might change but we think that the both drafts are ready to talk to be adopted and can be a foundation to further work and further modification not saying that they are complete at the app thus in a indeed not good shape enough to be taken by the working group and I think a the flexi is completely know who had the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:33",
    "text": "framework for the Lexus or and the revolution is stable now it\u0027s probably nightly so maybe it\u0027s time to also dedicate some time to put this one so with this any further questions comments hello young congrat francis net again this is my first first first idea ever so I mean missing something very obvious but as I was reading through draft it was a yeah yeah it was a discussion about the M and n isn\u0027t small multipliers and as you said it it brings certain complications for example that the same numerical value of M and an could actually refer to incompatible channels so my question is was it ever consider to use just gigahertz or three Hertz for both the center of a channel and for teaching width Gabriela speaking and there are at least two reason because we choose n and M number one is this is the tradition of ITT number two using with this kind of granularity terrors or or lambda or nanometers may n that we may we end up in rounding issues so having five digits after the comma after the dot is not enough because the frequency may be interpreted in a different way you probably saw the open road MA proposal I was not agree with that proposal because this issue so this is what we recommend something that I can understand because uh we are actually designing some of our other idioms using coil modules and yeah I hate quite a few implementation issues in some open source libraries when it comes to using this MO 64108 comes to em and ends meaning something else depending on the granularity of of so for example you device that you\u0027re using but yeah thanks for the answer just remind N and M are integer so no way to to make mistakes yes and they say that in a name have they defined in in ith row and they\u0027re very clear all the different things as I said before one thing is that you want a certain in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:33",
    "text": "name and because the devices might have a different granularity you might get something wider but I think that the concept is already in the framework and also this this is the this is the effect I think it is the effective channel in country immersively but it wasn\u0027t one of the slot with an is the effective as what with which is what you really get so here also the beauty of the jungle is that you can say okay this is what I want and this is one this is what I what I get but also that the concept at all we take everything from ideal so so there as we are not defining the data plane so we are just have to deal with the restriction that they that they give so we have we have detail in the cube thank you yeah I would like to echo with the previous speakers have just said I concur with them that we should use the n mm well dues and everything is related to the N and M values is well specified in itu-t recommendation g6 94.1 and I would actually suggest that this recommendation should be added as a normative reference to the two documents goodbye okay put put it in the minutes so we don\u0027t forget you do that\u0027s from here so if I can maybe just explain how it felt to me when I read the ITU document to me it felt as if the M and n was used just something like an implementation detail or a we call to better convey the idea but yeah I understand it well if everybody in this room understands it maybe I\u0027m wrong so thank you Gabriela Canada another good point to use at least n and is referred to the granularity No so the case of changing in huge of the grand Rite - for example 3 point 1 25 or if you want to have a fixed grid implementation like 50 grade 50 gig grid n is still valid so in other one is very generate this one we will take it we will take the last question and thank you at aug 2013 is customary Knology on this right and the media channel or the network media channel a toner toner is maybe it will not but Iraq - the question for clarification discussed a media terminology for media channel or the network media channel thank you well I think the this terminology is discussed in the in the FC in the framework in in the framework document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:33",
    "text": "and in the in that you what a here is more about the media media channel and network media channel were very very similar let\u0027s say so this is why the question here may be for the mobile model is though we need to have different constructs for media channel network media channel the tunnel might all all be the same so this is why we want to discuss a little bit this and just to clarify what what really - is needed in the in the model okay the point is simple that may be that this should be around with itu-t other 7.87 a subtitle OTN architecture and now the itu-t had already to the develop new recommendations called DDOT media and architecture for the median Adrian networking so point is again at please in July with itu-t recommendation in Tamil of terminology yeah okay so for the data plane of course we will align with with the ITU and but there also something that that idea is specific under the that uptake control blinkin strats so for example the tunnel itself is an artifact that you use to to represent something so this is maybe this is what we need to align in in IDF and take the those the the data plane concept is that the one that we are in here we define how we abstract those data plane concepts here in in IDF but I think it\u0027s we have good discussions to for the future thank you yeah I think it just related to this question actually we debated among the concerns I think at least the namesake maybe flux creative tunnel model might be the right one and then in detail inside you we can describe it and I think this is a good base for working group adoption there was one iteration on terminology alignment between the Flexi crater literature and iqt corresponding specification in RFC 768 the framework and I think we may need to also align the terminology here with other idea ITF models as that\u0027s the next step we need to go thank you okay Theatre is a quick one yes I would like to the altars to reconsider the redefinition of the connectivity matrix I made this comment also during the t\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:36",
    "text": "MPLS pc e c camp session when yang presented his draft i think the author should look at the tea topology connectivity matrix definition and the other point i would like to make is they should also consider whether this is a read-only attribute as far as WDM networks are concerned thanks Jung you have 30 seconds to the pipe yeah I think there are some late changes that you know seeking people want aware of it so I think we need to talk to e go offline on those connectivity matrices and I believe four flex grid you have a application code on the interface so I think we still need to have that element which is additional element for for this case so it\u0027s not the same so in any case we think we can take it offline way with Egor and see how can we augment or modify or but I think also that it is good to be aligned with a topology utility Matthews thank you Thanks this is a Gabriela Galimberti and I will present 5 draft now all related to if you want to flex Creed they start with the first one that is actually extending the possibility to signal in using GPS or label other than the media channel and the media channel with so the end and them also the possibility to allocate the subcarrier into this media channel in case of with multiple subcarrier so basically gmpls now is ready and I would say deploying to support W Sun network we got two very good draft very good RFC sorry that is a 76 98 the frame of 99 setting the labels for Flex spectrum and the 77 92 if I remember well that define the the RSVP those draft address properly the SS Orion issues but do not give yet any possibility to identify "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:38",
    "text": "what how and what what is the position of the subcarrier that are inside the media channel of course if you have a single carrier inside the media channel the subcarriers intra frequency is the same of media channel central frequency but issue that if you have more than one media channel that is the case of for example flexible transponder here we need to address this this issue as I said the the framework defined all the information and all the way to address SS Ryan also defined the possibility to have a set of multiple media channel or composite media channel and the proposal is to let\u0027s say associate a media channel inside a composite media challenge to identify them the center frequency eater of the media channel and a single carrier at this point containing this media channel but with this solution let\u0027s say the the carrier will go step at 6.25 while in some cases for Nyquist shaping we the carrier may be squeezed may be allocated closer than six point six point twenty five steps so scope of this draft is to extend the label and proposed actually to label one to identify the let\u0027s say request coming from the client on the unit or face telling telling to the network what kind of interface should be used and also another level is to carry this information across the the network and allow the control plane to share the information related to the interface and share the information related to the subcarrier position also not only at the two end so at the transponder side but also into the intermediate Rodman okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:44",
    "text": "the first draft was presented in Chicago we modified a few typos and sunder stupid description test and also TLD that was related to them to the label has been modified a removing information already present in the signalling defined by the 6699 recommendation RFC so here we have actually the network configuration you can see at the two end points flexible transponders flexible transponder may have more than one carrier at this point so the requirement here is 12 for example a request to carry for Aundre gig that are received by the transponder from a client interface and then see how this foreign tricky can be carried inside the ssoa network the transponder of course should signal as is telling the network a uni the let\u0027s say available available parameters like available bandwidth or available lambda whatever should also signal what kind of interfaces are available and other few parameters that are related today let\u0027s say today\u0027s signal or today circuit that needs to be set up the control plane the gmpls take care of this information make some calculation terms of routing but also in terms of spectrum allocation and more in terms of transparency in terms of carrier position inside the spectrum of course the agony that are applied to make all this calculation are not scope of this document so if you want up to the gmpls or SSI on a control plane implementation as I said in this example we have for example for transceiver or for interface available is up to the control plane to make for example based on the routing to choose all four interfaces and then carry for example the 400 gig payload using four carriers running at 100 Giga like QPSK "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:48",
    "text": "modulation format allow or if for example the name the channel or the circuit is not to not to not to long let\u0027s say less than 600 700 kilometers the contour pay may decide also to use two carriers and then apply a more aggressive modulation format like 16 QAM and so on the same is for the FEC okay this is the the first Tilby we propose as you see the number of carriers are exposed from the client to the network also the client bandwidth so the control plane knows how much payload is has to carry so in other word that knows how much payload can be share on the different carriers and then the subcarrier frequency tunability that is basically optional second LV is add and this is happening in the signaling and inside that the network is the modulation ID the FEC baud rate and again this is for carrier by carrier the grid the care identifier in case of we have more than one carrier this Tildy will be let\u0027s say use for each carrier so will be multiplied per carrier and other let\u0027s say three parameter that is J is the granularity of the carrier position inside the spectrum that is can be zero point one gigahertz as a default value or even less 0.01 gigarth so the granularity is very very fine K is a parameter that identifies the position of the carrier compared to the media channel Center frequency and then we will see here the explanation here we have an example of media channel which is n so the central frequency is equal for the same then the width is m equal 8 and then the value of K 1 and K 2 identify the position of the sucker compared to the N value that\u0027s all next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:50",
    "text": "time I think this is something that may be helpful there is already an implementation here I think if you remind if you saw the this the last presentation in T\u0027s from Pisa University what we are talking about here may be helpful or can apply also that case of course they presented a more general solution but this I think can can work ok she\u0027ll a and then the detail okay thank you Chile come from the T have one question for clarification so clearly spline the relationship between South Korea and the OTS on so this actually OTS can be the definition of a cutie of single cat yes you can have whatever you want here actually it\u0027s because for Mayans anyone oh yes I\u0027m a Content to subcarriers one OTS can be a sub can yes something to and more to amo that\u0027s correct here too let\u0027s say keep the solutions simple I would say that each OTS is one subcarrier of course in this case the tortillas carried the same payload or the payload is shared between the tortillas so if I lose one ot s here actually I lose all the payload now it\u0027s sort of inverse multiplexing done but this is a let me say a detail implementation Thanks yep I have a question regarding the document status I noticed that it has changed from experimental to informational I know that we had some discussions at the last meeting I would like to understand why this was changed secondly I believe that this is still the attempt to and get a proprietary solution standardized and I don\u0027t know whether this is a task of the secant working group to work on data plane standards I can answer for the informational I think other than experimental that is actually no more experimental but is I would say product we would like to inform what can be a solution to solve a real problem of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:53",
    "text": "let\u0027s say multi carrier transponder I guess a product from which vendors I guess you want to reply to the second question I wanted to spend few words on the status of the of the draft why did you move from experimental to informational this is a perfect example of an experiment because there is no yet no it\u0027s it\u0027s something that is not standard the button that is code so no problem to go back okay Julie Emrick arranged has an operator I would be happy to have other proprietary proposal joining this initiative because that would be the way to turn into solid rock youment um considering that I am actually deploying this kind of military under alien wavelengths this is something that is actually required to stop doing just manual multiple step operations so I definitely support that and it\u0027d be a pity you have to see jitter or someone else joining thanks thank you of course we are open to any body wants to contribute here how do you like to see this code is progressed as an experiment or don\u0027t say standard track of this I think if there is a specific very explicit data plane specification will be very helpful to have that kind of much wonder staff that support subcarrier but currently we do not have this kind of specification and if different when there comes with their own implementation I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t think that that will solve the operators problem I can answer here to me okay any vendor can come with its own solution this open my opinion but from the vendor point of view would be a mess right we have that\u0027s different with you yes why why why don\u0027t you propose your solution and see what is the best just just a second before we move on you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:55",
    "text": "still have the four drafts to present and you approximately ten minutes up to you how you wanted to use your time take the questions that go on in my opinion as we are having a pretty good discussion here I will prepare to invest at the time here we can keep also the presentation activator so go ahead with the question okay my comment inspiration you jogging and my comment just and this this this draft includes the definition for the modulation ID inside but I need ask for inverse and the career difference and what kind of the modulation ID yeah maybe this is the Autobots coping idea but at an organizational bug yeah actually I listed a bunch of modulation format in the draft now and probably this is not exhaustive list and probably is not the best way to represent these parameters no on let\u0027s say today we have we have just numbered each each modulation format I think this probably could be a weak point of this proposal he says that we should extend the agreement okay QPSK could be number one I don\u0027t know 68 QN could be number two or whatever this is absolutely open and even if we have already an implementation is not an issue to change ether woozy from away I think there is some standardization working question six of stereo 15 for the optical interfaces and it will be much better if we wait and we we develop a control plane for the standard data plane rather than four different or proprietary so not because we don\u0027t have a son a data plane what we are controlling that\u0027s my concern they agree to wait but the market is not waiting but not no one prevents to go on with an experiment and then go for the standard solution you said before you said before that is no more experimental but it is a product question is that if ITF us to standards I company products even if supported by operators in experimental draft that doesn\u0027t mean standardized er it can\u0027t be informational because you are defining TL visa and that that can be informational let\u0027s progress with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:55",
    "text": "DES sumption that the draft goes back to the experimental status just one common regarding multi-vendor the issue that we are see also in the past that there are shortened under example dated he doesn\u0027t define the interrupts stand up but for example we were making under gig interface working actually talking with a loo under the interface and we did interrupt I mean Cisco and I lose picking each other so there is a need to let\u0027s say understand if they do to interface even from different vendors has to talk are able to talk to each other so this kind of work is somewhat needed I don\u0027t I say I don\u0027t express my opinion right now about the path but something we need to move even if standard doesn\u0027t let\u0027s say will come later on then the other Paragard in the modulation format and so on we did in the past the optical interface class discussion this is a way where you actually carry around let\u0027s say numbers and you defied the meaning of the number somewhere else so we may define an external let\u0027s say registry table were you cover and yes you don\u0027t need to let\u0027s say go through changing your encoding if you change the modulation format or whatever yes man let\u0027s right just a piece of answer for Sergio there are already many existing ATF documents that explain how a given implementation is doing this using experimental or informational documents and here if you ask me to choose between this informational or experimental things versus nothing I choose that clearly thanks thank you I think if there is no more question we can finish lot is over thanks a lot vici from the Devon okay thank you this is actually from late he the present tense I\u0027m going to get away the part jamshil jam she has a rotating and secondly in said sorry champion right-hander second away from or calm beyond the no 100 key as you can see there are so many guys interested on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:56",
    "text": "this topic so next slide okay let\u0027s first talk about but the emphasis over this draft the top of the mainly focus on that comes true or be under 100 Giga specific escape ability using GM PS some bullets some infamous and just needed to be noticed that when the first why\u0027s that OTO scientist layer network away the for monitoring capability but no flexibility it\u0027s because the stir as described in a cute easy dota 872 there is no concept of you saying something I work that which means that the odious in that another support Tom slaughter switch and a sixth one second one second capability is the odious how to transport without using audios in the oto saying audio saying single or can be viewed as a being found by Intel available and OTO say audio signals we sell about want to thank you and each of them maybe transport or what they found the interfaces the the old using I was he should be able to find a single instance together and the distributors and over different interfaces also there\u0027s a special of you\u0027re saying signal we say the ought using the same this signal is same have the same over here I thought you same but only am tributary slots over capacity also the audio say unless about 5g that tum start chronologic about as a CPI as Yoda of the TV and the same as a teen I\u0027ll be okay so that young has come true Alliance should be able to support for the general okay so and it was easy once and that as reminder is that I\u0027m wait they discussed about the audio say as he what he taught us a SP but it looks like a way forgot to include this in you know draft maybe after this meeting we needed to make some minor changes after two addresses so next one okay about the history of this topic the first version of this topic of our present night last year in November as a so meeting controversy actually produced a band model to draft and the next one also just the same since last I kept Academy team we have the South discussed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:57",
    "text": "a several different topic the first wise whether flexo it out is in the scope of the district and the answer is no way out of some Peace Corp sandwich after that to describe the transport about using this talk him in the test viewers what you saying even if there are some peas it was a players in wording in director Singh this document has two videos this and I as a transport mechanism at the lower layers Oh tubes audio say that define I accept earlier and therefore free so and as a transport mechanism are considered outlaws so also another issue another topic that we discussed rail as flexi you and 400 Giga use cases which was written have some a little note about it is that all these cases actually map now OD incarnate a single event or dfrac single of the various rates it might be better to come by them into one category that handles audio flex artist so for more control on Cannavale the different unity the plan processing and other elements so maybe we need to make a bit of some changes at watch after to Peleus videos kissing in some categories okay about networks met steps as I mentioned before this stuff that had been pried into three times so a request for walking corporate wheels also asking her about a topic has we also have an agreement that this rather had including almost that they have abilities and that we need to cover we needed to use MPs to come true so it has a request for or in corporate offices so we have this draft that pace it would for developing some sluice and best document okay thank you okay you did this again could you back to the previous writer he got into the use case for the flexi and Mohammed G does it mean a client for the you freaks right and I have read the register draft button 0 1 and for flexi client and there are two use cases wines are freaks area into the audio effects yet that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:58",
    "text": "a signal on Anya I have no program but the other one the section 4.5 yeah yet another example and a flexi client into the ODU but I cannot this is it tooks something new invented in this the draft buttons everyone so the priest Eko carry this is really right with the dilib 709 and flexi ia in YF socket okay thank you you know to sacra have 50 okay so I do what I can here first of all I test us thanks to the ah this doesn\u0027t look the one okay this one look correct to the one I saw on the slide respiratory earlier didn\u0027t okay yeah so we have a draft that we call flexi framework signaling framework it very often signaling for configuration so actually both the document is just now in from a label just informational I heard that people want to make it experimental though I don\u0027t really understand what an experimental framework is is kind of odd so if we go there someone has to explain it to me and so look at what happen with this draft since lost time and lost time was Chicago and I wasn\u0027t in Chicago so partly for me it\u0027s like little bit longer we have added two new contributors and the number of contributors are going up all the time we restructure the document quite a bit when I first read this document it just struck me that it was a flexi tutorial and I think we need a flexi tutorial somewhere it will probably write something for the idea fewer nil or something but it\u0027s not what we want to have in the working group so here we need a typical ITF framework document and we cannot tweak it to become that a little bit more than it was before so we put priority what is interest for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:59",
    "text": "ITF and I also simplified use cases I hope I have not oversimplified them people need to review and you can give feedback on that but remains to be done we need to do a final clean-up on the requirements requirements a chroma is a pretty good but sometimes it\u0027s not requirement language you can\u0027t a requirement is something that you can measure if you reach the not and sometimes here you haven\u0027t done it not possible to do that and then we need to look at the document and see if we have something in this document that actually needs to go into other document like specifications that they\u0027re coming along that could be a bit of that where do I how did you do it Oh did you do that okay so here is how we propose to split up the documents we do one framework and that\u0027s the document we\u0027re talking about today that\u0027s the normal framework architecture requirement use case information goes into that document and I think we would kind of not stress use cases more than we do just now and then we need signalling and routing documents I see that we need extension to rsvp-te we need extensions to the IDPs there is one document that Mac is going to talk about in just a few minutes and then since this is link technology it needs at least we need to ask the question that we need to touch a LMP it could be the case that you might must do that and then of course where\u0027s the nor we need a John model for for flexi Olson and this is work in progress I try to come up with a reference model it\u0027s kind of there but I need comments feedback help to refine it what it basically says is that we had three types of connections for flexi one is actually when you connect routers back-to-back the bottom one is when you connect it\u0027s through an alkane network but where the area network is not aware of the the the Flexi and the last one is that you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:59",
    "text": "an OT n aware flexi aware network and at the top you need we need to kind of put interfaces reference points and things into this picture and I need help to do that and if you have ideas please contact me and send me text them so we looking at flexi data plane just quickly so what we have is see if I can do this this is animated and with this one it\u0027s gonna be here so there we have a nose can I do a pointer no that one ah okay so we have notes here note in the middle note at the end and we have some type of connectivity in between them so first of all we call this it\u0027s not that bad a much like it says flexi link here and we\u0027re pointing at the blue big pipe here so what what we have in flexi is a pipe between here between two paranhos from here to there and from here to there and then the next thing is that we have flexi sub-links they have the same reach ability so you have a flexi sapling it\u0027s red by the way not ground between the two notes and then you have them there and then what we get is a flexi interface and a flexi sub-interface do you want to jump in Barbara well I was gonna question the diagram you have that middle walk component what are you switching there ah so flexi is not a switching technology so what is the middle thus on an MPLS label it\u0027s a new way to one slide okay yeah so this is why we have the what comes out of flexi the interface is sub interfaces links and siblings so Ethernet and flex it is flexibly that are a link technology so here me getting into what what you\u0027re talking about we have a we want to establish an LSP over lexi and i thought and think we can do their so in this example i assume that the Flexi group is pre-established it\u0027s not necessary if we could also potentially establish the Flexi group by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "bike gmpls configuration though there are problems so if we accept for example if you have for 100 jig files between two nodes do you want to establish one two or what size would those two be or would you want to establish for different Lexi groups and the Shan should make is not really readily available coming in from requesting a LSP over flexi so next thing we have the UM it\u0027s not my friend so you have the links you have the sub link the green one and then you have the flexi LSP and to end over the who over the reflection network and you\u0027re actually switching on a MPLS label now you can also Kristen okay Deborah burn guard as an individual I still don\u0027t understand when you say you\u0027re switching a flexi sub link using an MPLS label are you switching them post packets or an email so there are actually two different approaches that one can use with labels and flexi one is the gmpls approach the others the the MPLS approach the gmpls approach is that a label does not exist on the data packets rather a label signifies calendar entries on a particular flexi link so you map the label to the calendar entries that the data is going to go into that\u0027s like time slots right so so is it\u0027s just like map to time slots in OTN the other alternative is the MPLS approach where you have actual MPLS labels on on the data packets actually and you\u0027re doing where I was going but thank you what I was going to say the the thing is that when you come to the green thing here that one in this example you establish that through the impeller signaling and actually telling the shim and the switching equipment in nodes what what what how to treat them and where to place the MPLS label yes the MPLS label is requested from here all the way up here and then established back again so and you do both you can also if you want to configure config configure the the Flex you grew but as I said there is a problem that I I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:03",
    "text": "can I can\u0027t get my head around that are there any so you continue I\u0027m the diagram then it\u0027s very misleading because it looks like you\u0027re switching a flexi sub link and flexi sub links or not switched there they would be if just link by link terminating switch never no technology well that\u0027s what I this is Lexi if you sub client or however you want to refer to it the the calendar slot is not switched it\u0027s not even mapped to OTN its terminated yeah so the flexi part is just yes all links so be very helpful Joe Louis if you could show that actual LSP for example in plus packets IP packets and twin through the routers and then show clearly that your flexi link is just including the calendar slots is purely link to link it\u0027s purely a link good view so so guess we\u0027re not seeing I\u0027m not seeing why so I I don\u0027t you know it\u0027s just it would be I think very helpful if you could show um the architecture that is in of\u0027 implementation agreement and it\u0027s also in the Geo at 7:09 which is public available right the amendment one it\u0027s purely I mean flexi is purely a link and the calendar slots are terminated each side or an OT any of three mappings but then you\u0027re switching and oh do flex or a GFP type container and in this case we don\u0027t need to do the you do flex we do the MPLS label so you\u0027re purely looking at connecting the routers with but then your flexi is just an encoding of the link I mean that\u0027s all it\u0027s it\u0027s a way of establishing an efficient link with actually can guarantee you bandwidth yeah that\u0027s fine but it\u0027s your only then you\u0027re only discussing it as a link it\u0027s it\u0027s not it\u0027s nothing to be switched so you only have your you encoding for the link you need to take this discussion kind of back to the list because be very helpful if you actually draw this out in that we we can see what you\u0027re actually trying okay you have a long longer on you use again and maybe at over up to with Deborah\u0027s comment and let me clarify at it\u0027s a flex is serving different from free free client it a same one reflexive suffering that Greek the green pipe on this Kia is this means "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:03",
    "text": "Trixie Bryant the RIT no I think a flexi sub link is a link with one Ethernet interface in each and and a flexi client between them is that so yeah maybe at um maybe at it looks like Ethernet cry and what a cry aunt but maybe at this fight introduced it had too many terminology is that for industry clarify on these points I understand the name but that I need to clarify something here and I need to actually figure out exactly what and and Amanda made me point a point is that this draft is only focusing on the fricassee mode only terminated or unaware was a difference between the draft and the slide this is kind of high level so maybe did he talking about only terminated mode for the Flexi I am Amanda standing incorrect and please write it and this focus okay please help me writing it okay Mac about the question about whether it is support a flag situation no we do not ask about fact situation with you sir because you can\u0027t get here this if we are effectively frame well recovered to packet or is there a packet of empty packet and then transmitted to the next hole it\u0027s just like yeah it\u0027s I think is it\u0027s just a G friendly in the current Oh F what you want so you\u0027re seeing it\u0027s a switching capability and not that you peeed which you use that amperes to you know to set up our key over actually actually configure the infrastructure and set up the LSP that that\u0027s what we need to do that we\u0027re not switching on the flexi level yeah so you\u0027re you\u0027re setting up an MPLS al P we\u0027re reading who ampulla selespeed okay let\u0027s go for that then we are configuring the underling underlying sapling and linked let me do that by gmpls signaling and routing actually I think are you guys on the picket net flexing it\u0027s a kind of link technology and cannot be switchable but actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:04",
    "text": "look at this picture I think this picture it\u0027s a little bit you know misleading it sounds like to give up people a kind of feeling that flux can be switchable so because based on based on the RFI a implementation so CLE can you explain exactly why you get that feeling because I don\u0027t get that feeling it\u0027s stepper again um I think lo we here is that you\u0027re trying to control that flexi link and and it\u0027s it\u0027s not controllable this is a hard adaptation function that is mapping just internally that MPLS packets which become then Ethernet actually right it has to be MPLS mapped into Ethernet thighs because it\u0027s mapping the actual you know fiying coding into the calendar slots and you\u0027ve no control of any of that that\u0027s a hard adaptation that just is just automatic you know so you can\u0027t control any of these flows so I think anyway I would suggest recommend because it was a lot of discussion at the last light to you meaning and you have a lot of ITU folks there that you get together and you can bang now what actually is needed okay do we wanted to have a look at Max\u0027s lights to see if okay maybe so I have two requests not for the slides for the draft to actually review and help us improve it involve more people to develop this and I thankfully think it\u0027s been around long enough to actually for the working group to take control of the rest about now in time maybe one more version just encourage people to read the draft and you can discuss how to you know to to improve the draft so what I don\u0027t want to present the detail but we\u0027ll have enough time for then in details so just read the draft and we can discuss of the week all can discuss by email okay just one comment once we understand that what we wanted to switch what we wanted to advertise and so on I would say this is the second draft nothing I guess yes that it\u0027s technology specific extension so to I guess I guess okay well I think I already commented that one the ACS meeting your document I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:06",
    "text": "agree with you usually we\u0027ve been doing a GP extension within the cecum working group so if it makes sense it does belong here around here just to do my comment again I think the solution on the problem statement here don\u0027t match because it\u0027s about using switching capability descriptor to do something which is not aimed at being switched so clearly it\u0027s not ready yes we need to make it clear what you want to advertise because you may be you made it clear that this is not something that you\u0027re going to switch but I had a look at the drafter and the you are speaking about changes to the switching capability descriptor okay yeah so thank you everyone for the hard session we we are done and see you at ITF 100 you "
  }
]