[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "all right uh I don't see Leaf here yet uh oh there you go there's leaf and and we are missing maybe ISU is here okay perfect Lea are you on yes right okay perfect thank you all right welcome everybody thank you so much for joining us this is our first interim of 2024 yay uh so we will start with the usual um all right let's let's get started with the note 12 uh please not the note 12 well be respectful of your co-members ITF is built on the principle of open collaboration so let's keep that Spirit going and respect everybody um this General administra here if you have any issues with your remote participations drop a message reach out um I posted the drafts um in the chat there is there are two drafts we have currently and then one open PR from Brad so if you need anything besides that for agenda bashing um I know um chair posted that we want to start with the poll to pick a solution but we had some feedback from the authors and uh yogesh said that he wants to present a comparison between the two draft before we actually pick a solution so we're going to um go over yoga's proposal and then there is um an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "open item where we want to reach consensus around security properties of the invitation Channel it has been um there's a lot of back and forth going on there's some I'll not say conflict but there's a lot of um discussion around if you want to consider security properties of the invitation Channel and what's the right language for our draft and how much it aligns with the charter so we're going to Deep dive a little bit into it and try to reach a consensus on that um so so Le do you have anything else to add or anybody has anything to add to the agenda besides that um the one administra if somebody could volunteer to take a couple of notes today I think that' be great um in the not taking tool um anybody can help out with that I think that would be great um Brad uh Bradford per perfect thank you very much and and Joe I'm I'm I'm seeing two uh volunteers um I hope Joe that that was you volunteering to take notes um um in any case just could do the notes in the note taking tool and uh thank you very much for your uh assistance all right PR I think we're ready to Yes um so let's start with yogesh's presentation and then we'll dive into other things with that hello yoges I am gonna share your slides hello um thank you brai uh hi everyone uh I'm yoges and thank you for joining us here in our interim meeting uh I'm going to start with a quick recap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "the big picture goal that we are trying to solve is to allow Alice to share a credential with Bob in a secure and privacy preserving Manner and also with a seamless user experience um in our draft uh which is draft vinura which I will refer to as draft on so that I don't butcher um in that draft we have defined the terms that we are using and also described an overall overview of how that big picture sharing process works uh so I hope everyone has had a chance to read sections one two three of our draft um to get a good idea there uh that brings us to an important piece of that puzzle which we term as relay server and in this presentation basically I'm going to talk about relay server so if we can go to next slide please so the requirements that we have identified for this relay server are the first and foremost requirement is to provide a bidirectional transport between the initiator device and the first recipient device the second requirement is to provide store and forward as these two devices may not be online at the same time um the third requirement is privacy related which is the relay server shall not collect any identifying information about the users and so is the fourth one where if I'm sharing multiple things using a relay server there is no reason for that relay server to know that that I'm involved in multiple mailboxes and the fifth is a should requirement which is uh relay server should enable a seamless user experience because we think that it's crucial for adoption of this process uh next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "uh so with that in mind there are two uh options on the table one is our draft the draft V and other is the draft R again I'm don't want to butcher last name so I'm just going to go with draft V and draft R uh and then I try to compare these two drafts uh there are lots lots of similarities which I'm not going to mention because uh they are similar something like TLS connection between the server and the client uh we will focus on the differences between the two drafts so from the security perspective first item is the mailbox identifier uniqueness in our draft draft V uh the server generates the mailbox identifier and we have defined it as a uuu ID so it's guaranteed that it is unique in the draft R the client is supposed to pick a random so there is a possibility that there is a collision that maybe two Alice one and Alice two pick maybe the same random so the same mailbox identifier second thing is The Binding of initiator and recipient to a mailbox because as I mentioned earlier this is essentially a pipe between initiator and the first recipient device so there needs to be a binding between the two um and in our draft we achieve this binding by something called as device claim that the clients provide in the draft R uh it's not clearly defined but there is a possibility mention that it can happen with cookies third uh item is uh if that mailbox identifier is known by multiple entities in our draft V uh once a transfer is started so once the initiator and the first recipient device are locked into a mailbox no one else can monitor or disrupt that transfer even if they know what the mailbox identifier is but in the draft R I do see a possibility that if you you know that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "original mailbox identifier you can monitor or even disrupt the transfer um and then the last issue was on the security front is the lingering mailboxes uh in our draft we do request clients to clean up the mailboxes as they are done but the server also guarantees clean up on a periodic basis and there is lifetime of the mailbox so we'll clean that up uh but the draft R doesn't mention any such requirement on the server it is relying on client not crashing or getting disconnected before deletes uh next slide please so just a quick point of order here I think does it make sense to kind of go through um each kind of slide I mean they're they're basically separate issues and separate claims so maybe it it makes sense to kind of um let people comment and ask questions on each slide either that or we have to or we go back and process questions at the end but then we have to go back so the you know what what do you think uh is fine but based on my past experience uh it would be better to go through the entire slides and then maybe come back or in case all right but in that case I think we have to move it along fairly quickly so we have actually have time to discuss everything right okay I'll I'll Brie through then next slide please on the Privacy front in the draft V we allow the user to pick what the mailbox identifier is so the server only knows what the client tells it and which is a uu ID whereas in draft R they are talking about using cookies and cookies are well known for being able to track things so I see that as a concern uh next slide please on the user experience from uh V are the draft V is ingrained with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:04",
    "text": "the systems to provide notifications which will provide a Snappy user experience and also draft V is built to allow any uh invitation channel that user wants to use the confidentiality of transfer is not dependent on the invitation channel that happens to be the case with draft R uh next slide please and in terms of Effectiveness the basic function as a pipe between initiator and first recipient is achieved by that stable mailbox in our draft V and device claims as I mentioned and the draft are I'm not exactly clear how that works because there is no single mailbox it keeps changing per message so I'm not exactly sure how the server will relate that this R2 actually is tied to a initiator and a recipient and as I already mentioned lifetime of mailboxes and also if there is a not just a turn taking flow something like cancel where you send a message and then send another message to cancel our draft handles it well whereas draft R may not work there and um another possibility of uh Collision of mailbox identifier if that two messages are identical in overdraft it doesn't matter because they're going to separate mailboxes in draft are they might Collide and last slide please in terms of deployability as I mentioned our server does most of the heavy lifting the client impact is minimal in terms of current deployments there are deployed Solutions in the car key vertical and there are more in the pipeline and uh we see that that our proposal is fairly easily extensible because you just have to essentially add new headers if needed I guess that's it so we can open it up all right then I think if you back back up to the first slide I think we'll we'll go through because I I think we're going to comment on all the slides so uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Eric is in the queue go ahead yeah some can people hear me yes good it's unfortunate these weren't shared before because like these are largely false um and so if if you trade these before I would have opportunity to point out that they're incorrect so I'm just going to start from the top um the chance of Collision in this case is roughly one is roughly two negative 2506 um so essentially every other idea protocol we rely assume that randomly generated numbers um a sufficient space do not Collide and this is a key security guarantee for essentially every cryptographic protocol we use um and if it's not true then you get collisions for instance um in TLS keys or quick keys or IP set keys and there's a far more serious problems than cion mailboxes have complete ciz the connection so the suggestion like that hash collisions uh present a serious functional problem any has large is just simply not reflective modern ITF practice um and not reflective of like any of like statistics in the situation so I'm just going to stop there on this the first point you want to argue with this one you were breaking up a little bit but what I is when I I think I understood the argument let me take the try to kind of interpret what you said and reflect it back I think the the the point you're making is that um Randomness um is an integral part of any ITF um protocol and the assumptions were that you making in your draft isn't isn't in any way different from like for instance the same assumptions that are made in TLS so um and in in fact if I could just take off my chair hat um the the fact you yogish you mentioned that you used U IDs in many implementations that's also based on randomness in which case you have the same basically the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "same Collision chances or risks I should say can I respond or should I be in the queue sorry you should just go ahead yeah absolutely uh well the yes it is both romness but in one case it's multiple clients trying to be random to create a identifier whereas a single entity in our case being random as I mentioned there is a chance of there is a probability in our case that is way lower and just because it's best practice to use Randomness by various clients if there is a better alternative I would rather take it I think you're missing the point entirely which is if you cannot trust that randomly generated numbers are unique thenur fall apart okay okay this is unfortunate I think you're breaking up a little bit Eric yeah this is like a problem with Meo there somebody to turn off my video your video no there isn't so um Eric I've got Aaron in the queue off you do you want to if if if you're fiddling around with your connection settings maybe we can let Aon um uh same problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:15",
    "text": "Aram why don't you try stepping up to the queue while Eric because I think you you you were also trying to clarify some some of the same points yeah hi a py um I was just going to try to recap what Eric was trying to say which is that if we can't trust clients if we if we can't trust clients to independently Generate random numbers and not Collide then basically everything about TLS and all the other specs fall apart so that seems to be a sufficiently okay assumption in the current world that we can make so the point while while technically it's true that the uh draft V is has a slightly lower chance of collision it's not actually relevant at all because of how because of the assumptions we're already making about client generative Randomness is that correct Eric you can just type in the chat yes Eric says yes okay great thanks all right um Eric we've all face muted ourselves now so let's see if that helps your bandwidth situation and maybe we can kind of go on um my suggestion here is that we try to turn this into a free more or less open discussion between um um you you and yogish on this slide and then we can kind of open up for everybody else to respond and then we can move to the yeah can people hear me now is this any better it is better yes okay great um so yeah I mean I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "like as I said if you can't trust random just the crypto cryptography all falls apart um the second um the second Point um this is not a this is not a functional requirement of the system the functional requirement of the system is that only one person gets only one person gets the um key and that is provided by the draft we described it does not require cookies and it explains the number of times so I'm not quite sure why it's so difficult to understand but the situation is that as F soon as the first person responds and deletes and deletes um as soon as the first person responds and deletes the initiation message from the server then no one else can get in and this also this app also applies to the second line and neither of these require cookies um so um um I happy to explain why it's the case but um the the tldr is that the locations are random and and you know no location of the next message you need to know you need to received the previous message and so as soon as the first message is received and deleted then no one else can can can read either that message or any subsequent message and if I could just jump in on that I since I was the one who suggested the the cookies uh approach uh the session cookies approach um that is an alternative way to do that uh there's also a potential built suspenders approach where you can get uh two layers of guarantee there um but I agree with E's uh um description that it's that property is already attained with with the design without cookies so you guess if you disagree with this we really should hash this out because this is a key this seems to be the key security question this the system so if you really disagree with this we should hat this out now so that so cookies are suggested as a way to bind the initiator and recipient right they suggested suspenders mechanism that in ition to the existing security mechanism that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "defining the main draft would um would provide a second layer of protection but is not necessary to provide the security guarantee so as a as a just point to border chair if you know if if we don't actually need cookies for draft Rola can can we kind of put that aside and not discuss that I think I think that's entirely reasonable as the person that suggested the cookies approach okay I mean if we are ready to move on from cookies then the third point is very valid in this case because without cookies the third part is incorrect as as soon as soon as in both cases the first person in both cases there's a race condition between the attacker and the receiver and as long as the receiver wins things are fine as long as the attacker wins things are not fine uh that that there I disagree in draft R even if the receiver is first to go there as long as the attacker knows are they can know the entire sequence they can read it no that's not that is not that is not correct the addresses of the subsequent messages accurate if and basically obsc yogish you're breaking up oh okay can I try again uh so if the attacker knows R they can get to all the messages by just being there at the right time and that is no that is not correct I mean that they've won the race in that situation I don't understand what you're saying they they raise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "but R and then they can read subsequent messages because you just have to derive the next mailbox address from the R so I don't see any mechanism that prevent and I understand yeah no it you're you're breaking up pretty bad I it are you is is this a local issue um a microphone issue yogish uh I don't know let me try without sometimes when you start speaking it's actually pretty good pretty clear right now and then you TR then it breaks off when you um okay I I'll try again um at least I mean the the way I have read this draft I see that if an attacker knows R they can get to all the messages and there is nothing preventing that in the draft uh and I guess if we have differing opinions maybe someone else can take a look and chime in yeah I'm sorry that's simply not correct the way the system works is that if the attacker alns are subsequent to the um subsequent to the receiver pulling the first message the attacker the attacker is not able to interfere the connection it is of course able to do so if it learns it prior to the receiver getting in but that is the same race condition that your draft test uh that's actually not true in overdraft the first recipient to lock in is the only one that gets messages because the server wouldn't let anyone else read it but in your draft even if the actual recipient read it somebody else can read it too because they know the r there is nothing preventing that no because no because the receiver deletes it as soon as he's readit because and those those are two separate operations a read and a delete so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "somebody reads it person one reads it and person two can read before that second delete happens there is nothing preventing that yes that is correct yes so that is so my point is accurate and I think we can move on to the next one so that we can more unless you can describe an actual security situ an actual data okay this is wrong in a number of ways so the first is that the um like any system like this is a two gist problem which is to say that either you have to um either you have to say that as soon as you think the thing has been read before you before you can verify it's been read then you then you lock it in which is this draft this you think you're proposing your draft works or you say that the receiver has to explicitly acknowledge it in order to in order to lock it in which the way my draft works but I don't understand why you think it's security relevant and I really appreciate if you dve an attack as opposed to just keep to repeat this this point I mean I I is there anything in your draft but that guarantees that after reading that hour it is locked it's not I mean the client is supposed to delete it and what if the client goes away crashes I mean there are lots of scenarios where the client may not be able to issue delete right after and then R is lingering around which is also the next point in the slide here yeah nothing prevents the client from issuing the lead immediately afterwards in fact in the same message in fact in the the same TCP action so in in that case if somebody else has R they can read the entire conversation that's the point okay I really don't think it's exactly representing the situation so um I I guess this is your view but I don't think it's is accurate but in that case happening on the next point which is that the um that the this that Ling mailboxes first of all are not a problem because they're simply simp simply a um simply consuming I'm very mon Bas in the server but second Nothing Stops a server from having its own cleanup"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:05",
    "text": "timeouts I mean uh I would say lingering mailboxes are a problem because if somebody can go in later and actually read all the conversations that happen uh that is a concern and uh sure servers can define a timeout but it's not defined is the only thing that I'm pointing out well I don't think it's difficult to Define I don't really think that the fact that we haven't defined what as a problem um and as I as I stated already I don't think they're describing the situation security situation accurately I think that is it we can I think go on to the next slide or well actually be before we go to this slide I just want to make sure that everybody there's nothing any nobody else who wants to kind of speak to any of the points in on the first SL and I see Aaron jumping in here so uh I I don't I didn't want to revisit the the previous slide but I actually had I was skipping ahead in this in the slides and can I suggest that we discuss something on the last slide instead which is current deployments um I don't see any problems if nobody else has a problem with that so I feel like picking up part the the point isn't terribly useful at the moment without sort of larger context I am okay with it go go ahead Aron uh no I just wanted to to get more detail on this I guess so the current deployments the the the statement here is that it is currently"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "deployed the the solution described in this draft V is currently deployed is that accurate and and how widely and like can we get some details on on that uh that is that is indeed accurate um there is a con vertic the the thing that we call vertical it's a Consortium called car connectivity Consortium which they have standardized the digital car key and the sharing methods and currently there are a handful of car manufacturers who allow people to create a digital car key on the device and also share it and uh handful of handset manufacturers as we call them or uh device manufacturers they are actually they have deployed this solution implemented and deployed and we are actually sharing keys right now for like last more than two years I would say I feel like that's a pretty big uh pretty big deal I guess I would like to kick it back to the chairs to to to discuss that because I feel like the conversation around should we adopt a draft that has current deployments versus should we pick from to clean slate drafts is a very different discussion well I that's a reasonable point I frankly to hear from the verticals um which we have not yet um to get their perspective on how much they like this draft um before we assume that um the handset manufacturers speak for them so some of the people okay go ahead yog S I just wanted to add that U this is alham I work with a different team um in a different team with yogish it is beyond car manufacturers we are using them also in scooter key solution um in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "multif family home so it is just more than digital car key I just wanted to emphasize that and it is currently deployed and used in production go ahead yogish thank you elham uh I guess I miss the other artical and there are some people from I guess car connectivity consult I'm on this meeting right now so if somebody wants to speak up that would be a great time right should we go back and walk through the slides um I think we were we we took a trip back to the last uh oh somebody entered the queue here is that on this topic or uh yeah this is Matias uh also from Apple um I just want to point out there were a few people from Apple speaking but to be really really transparent uh it's a solution that is supported by as yoges already has sets just want to underline that uh many other device om in the Android World um and also many uh companies that are working together with these uh with these um device it's a real cross functional setup that is deployed right not only for V for for automotive it's there are also other domains where it's already in use cross functional or cross cross functional or crossplatform in the sense that it's going from Apple to Android between Android different Android devices at Vice Vera so that is why we think uh ITF is the right place uh to make that a standard right and coming to to to to say that clearly in for the for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "the ongoing discussion um and we actually I I thought and we all thought that it's known to the group it's comes a bit as surprise that this was not so clear but so we want to make that really clear uh it has already proven uh in the field to work well uh no known attacks Etc so we think it's worth contributing that U to to the group and base a future release on on this design that was the idea all right before thank you Matas I want to kind of Step In sort of with my chair hat here at this point because there is a this is a um it's not an an uncommon situation for the ITF right and and um you have a fairly well sort of understood and deployed solution that involves a a um a certain sector or maybe even multiple sectors and I i' I've been I've myself been in that situation of trying to kind of promote um Solutions like this into the ITF the the thing is that the ITF is is not um it's not necessarily the venue to um to use a very common vernacular phrase rubber stamp Solutions um if if apple and and Android have a a working relationship ship already where you managed to deploy a solution doesn't necessarily um necessitate the involvement of an international standards organization um the um the assumptions when or the the discussion we had in The Bu when we sort of went into this was that um the um various vertical would eventually appear right and that a this first version of of a solution would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "more well I I don't want to use the word morph but evolve into something that had sort of Internet scale deployability and had um wide adoption across uh not just the handset ecosystem across multiple ecosystems um and so far um the all of those other interested parties have have haven't they're not here um which makes this a very um kind of iffy proposition for the ITF right to to continue this work um the process we're in here uh looking at the like alternative um Solutions um is kind of part of the natural Evol evolution of a protocol in the ITF and it also is part of the security analysis of a of a protocol in the ITF um and and so far I I can kind of see I can see a big problem here as a chair and I'm pretty sure if the ads were here I don't know that they're here they would probably agree with me in saying that it is a it's a it's bad practice for the iatf to um to have a situation where you have a a lot of active security analysis that um isn't being sort of discussed other than by the um exactly the same organizations who promoted the the protocol in the first place to put it mildly if if it's just Apple and Google you don't actually need us here um so the deployability of the standard is interesting but I'm also still looking for where are all the car manufacturers where are all the hotel chains where are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "all of the other um actors that um and where are all the new actors in this space sorry for taking up a lot of time but I think that needed to be said and and if we want to go back to to uh review of the comparison I think we should kind of go back to um the second slide because I think that's where we were when we took a trip back to the deployability question unless somebody wants to continue that discussion we have a few people in the queue leave uh I think Sue is the first one yeah I I just want to offer uh idea especially I think in this group uh for those who may want to get a bit more informations about this deployment thing uh and how CCC is actually using uh the draft uh to for implementation uh I would suggest that I offer that uh iatf can set up a Leone with CCC or we can also request CCC to set up leaz zones uh if if folks wants to get more details about the deployment uh about uh the car and how to use it I think it's certainly possible to set up that layer Zone uh so that what to to really speak about uh what people has done the work in terms of deployment uh it's all real it's all uh in the market people already use it uh I think it's important to understand to factor in that important uh criteria as well thanks so so just to kind of get back on on that um L on relationship with the ITF is a is a thing unto itself it's an i thing it's not our it's not in our wheelhouse in a working group um oh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "that that's fine I I'm just offering I I I'm not yeah but I will say what would be even more important is to have representatives from CCC join the ITF working group the Tigers working group provide feedback on all of the discussions we're having here and to do review of drafts if you did that it would be much easier for us for the ITF to make a judgment call about sort of H how kind of widely distributed is this how important this is how how hard would it be to change various aspects of the protocol um the the ITF is being asked to take and have actually taken ownership control of this protocol and that means you actually have to do the work inside of ITF not through Theon relationships thank you I think Bradford is next sorry um was trying to keep up with the notes um I think it was Matas that said that um yall want thought it was best to specify this protocol in the ITF um I'm curious as to why that is like why not just specify this on the CCC uh yes so maybe I can speak to that um CCC only covers uh Automotive yeah keys or connectivity so everything else all other verticals that Almer has mentioned are not at all covered by CCC so we think there is a uh an interest to have that protocol widely used right across any other standards because there is either vertical specific standards or no standard at all right for hotel chains or whatever there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "is no standard right and um coming back to your question why don't Apple and Google just make it out uh on their own this is exactly what we don't do not want uh because I mean uh we we have come up with something that works well and we think it should become a standard and it's not about rubber stamping I'm I'm I'm really don't agree with that it's about contributing something to ITF and then I mean it has been contributed already since a while have there been already security analysis and everything you were talking about so the expectation would be that iatf picks that up maybe has a different proposal and uh and comes up with with with the best solution um I I still think you you're not in like you're not operating in a vacuum there is real interest uh of deploying that that it could be a different solution but there's I I'm not sure if there's any justification to do things completely differently with no proven additional value uh for completely undefined future potential deployments where we as you say no one has manifested interest so it's an open question I just try to to get a bit to the point uh to see is is that a way that could go forward to take something and make it like a big standard not forgetting that um it already works and there's an interest to make it better but not just do do it completely differently by achieving the same let's say the same security level and same usability level so I let me again put on my not take off my chair hat and and offer kind of a a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "perspective of what the working group has been doing over the last couple of months and that is to what what Eric has done right is is he's offered up an alternative way to look at the basic requirements um and the question draft R is asking at least this is again just my personal view right is is it possible to do this in a completely different way that is much simpler um and um that offers the same level of protection but has like you know radically lower sort of complexity less complexity um and that that's kind of what what um Eric and and um um and Brad has been working on now does that mean that there there is necessarily a competition between the two drafts not necessarily but there is I think the need to do like like objective review um of the two dra and objective comparison and what we I think and again putting on my chair hat back on I say what I've seen as chair is has kind of I I haven't seen kind of that um um strive towards objective review right doesn't mean necessarily mean we need to replace everything right but at least we need to have like a a detached and objective assessment of the requirements and it it is worrying to me as chair that we're still at that level in a working group that's been working for for quite a while the secure deployment or why deployment or not is kind of beside the point at this point if we can't even have an objective discussion about the requirements I think you Gish is in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "Q uh so yeah if I if I may jump in I think this slides is basically at least the first attempt to actually compare those drafts as objectively as possible right and as I have pointed out if you go back to the effectiveness slide uh the draft R is not actually more simpler or anything in fact it's more complicated and more confusing than the draft V uh I mean I would definitely encourage people to read both the drafts and keep that in mind to see if what Compares I fa have to get in the queue again um you know um more complicated less complicated I think it's kind of a matter of opinion um you know um the um uh um you know I guess my view is like having a whole basically rest API on the server in oruc say quite simple is like really not that fortunate and it's not clear to me that actually is simpler on the client um I like to take a step back though and talk about the um you know the selection process here um you know I I certainly agree that like having like broad deployment actually is like an important consideration um um but um and I miss some was saying um you know but like um you know um uh and and and I think certainly like if we have a broad constituency of like vendors from the verticals who like think that like the current thing is great um and want to refine the ITF seems like totally reasonable um but if what we have actually like a couple handset vendors um who say they were presenting the vertical um and there's not a lot interest finding the ITF and it's all participation in vertical but it's not really what the ITF is doing here so like I really don't like object to like taking the existing draft if we're going to have a real working group but I do think it's like but but I concerned as as Leaf indicated the situation we have now which is we don't seen have much of a working group and we have an existing draft and Bun of Cl has deployed so um and and that's the spr in which I offered um alternative because I thought that like the design was better but I don't just losing that that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "argument but um but but I I should lose that argument if we're going to like really move forward in meaningful way and and so I'm also concerned about that and I like say one more thing I think if we are going to do um uh uh try to do an objective analysis between these two drafts um this um set of slides is not reasonable basis for that analysis to happen um and Analysis has to actually be based on consensus discussion not on one person's opinion which I think we've established is somewhat disputed all right um I still want to make sure that we um have time to make comments on a few of the points if there is interest to do that we have about a another 15 minutes we can spend a few more minutes on that um yeah a few points I guess um um I I think I think these points are a little more reasonable I sort of agree with some of them others um this first point I don't think is correct um so um for reasons if I someone write up what the issue is I'm sure I could respond to it um the second point I think um I I agree this I agree like that my draft is kind of vague in a lifetime I don't think the lifetime issu is very important but if people think the lifetime is important it wouldn't be hard to specify numbers um and it wouldn't be hard to specify a header or something that manag that um as I started mentioned I'm sort of reluctant to add a lot more Behavior to the server because I think having behavior on the server is bad but like certainly you could do something um this third Point like yeah I think this third point is like totally reasonable um like if um I don't remember there being a requirement for like um multiple messages from one server one and the other um um certainly it would not be difficult to make that work um in the design I proposed but I agree my design do not got to cover that um um this um this last point is of course wrong for the same reasons um as was indicating previous hat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "collisions um if you go back to the Privacy sliding the priv now overt Tak by Advance because we're not trucking out cookies it'll be wrong anyway but it's def wrong because we're not talking about cookies so yeah all right so we're not going to make the point that cookies aren't a tracking mechanism in this in this context they're not absolutely um but like even if they were we table for now so okay sorry can you repeat that it was hard to hear Eric and what they said sure So So I think we already suggested that we weren't really going to talk about cookies in this conversation because the design doesn't require it but um even if they were going to require cookies um It's Perfectly possible to like separate the two contexts from multiple exchanges um so that the cookies don't link up and this is why like browsers do all the time for like for like um cookie isolation so there's not a privacy problem this in this situation so so to make a comment just to understand if there are no cookies in the draft R then it is only restricted to using end to end channels as the invitation channel is that accurate no that is not correct because I thought cookies were supposed to prevent against um not end to end encrypted channels so that even if leak something can be done about it or yeah I regret there's still this misunderstanding I I really think what we need to do um chairs um is um to ENT to which we're voting or deciding on the basis of ployment like I I I freely concede that like the design that um draft v um will work I don't think it's very good but like I consider workc so if we're voting purly on deployment on these technical issues then we can like ignore all these technical points and move on but if we're going to make a decision based thetical points that I really do think we actually need to sit down and work through this um this this this security question that is Raising that he and I were arguing about previously um because it's clearly a quite strong difference of opinion and I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "think that like it would be important for the working group to actually sit through that as opposed to kind of like have has something written down with like arrows and like you know boxes and arrows and stuff and flow diagrams and exactly what can happen when and like get consensus on that um rather than sort of like the baate at the microphone like we're doing here with kind of no prep um so as I say if we're gonna decide based on like popularity of like current deployments then like we don't need have that conversation because I agree this thing works um but if we decide based on techical Merit then really do have to like not make a decision here and actually sit down and write a document noted um Matias you were in the que uh yes live um one question I so I think I joined uh today and probably many other participants joined today because we were thinking that we take a decision today between uh the two drafts and which one to uh to move forward is that something that is that is doable um first of all decisions like that are based on working group consensus in the ITF and um working group consensus is very very iffy to determine on an at an interim meeting U if if we were to do that kind of consensus call um we would definitely do it on the mailing list not in a meeting like like this um I think that we gota I think there is it's not as chair I I don't think we're actually looking at a a binary situation here I think we're looking at um two or three possibilities um one possibility is a a a joint working group redesign of the protocol kind of that targets maybe other properties than the one that the initial proposals have maybe it looks like a a um um an evolving draft V or draft r i it I don't know right that's one option for the working group another option for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "the working group is to say all right no no we're we're going to do draft V only um because we have a a lot of support for draft V now I think that the current makeup of the working group does not afford US to make that decision in the it because it's basically just Apple here and and a couple of Google people that's certainly not not not enough not nearly enough for the ITF please yes today you're speaking about today sorry to interrupt in the in general active participants in the working group if I look at the mailing list and the activity on the mailing list what's your proposition what's your proposition then to move forward what what I what would have to happen for the ITF I mean again I was back at my list right my list is we can we can go ahead and do a working group redesign um the other option is we can say that draft V is what we want to uh pursue but in order to do that the ITF would actually have to demonstrate consensus um and an engagement from from a much broader range of companies than we have seen in the working group today I think today if we were to take this draft V or um some future sort of version where we've done some minor editorial edits or whatever take to take that to the isg they would never allow us to publish because we haven't demonstrated ITF consensus it would be a very very weak consensus the the way if if the industry wants draft V to to progress you actually have to send a lot more representative from different companies and different Industries to not only say hey we want this thing but actually participate in the work and so far we haven't seen that the only thing we've seen is a discussion between um the only other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "active participant and that's Eric and and bradr yeah I mean and this is not how we do things in the ITF yeah a lot of this work has already happened before right but and then again you don't need the ITF you don't need us this is not how the ITF works I mean there are two two different things it's not how the ITF works I mean there we we need to see what the what the way of progressing is but isn't the ITF I mean I don't want to start a basic discussion there or fundamental discussion but isn't the ITF just uh a cons like a standards or organism that standardizes across verticals right if those verticals are are actually present but they're not they're not here I I we don't even have people responding to kind of basic review solicitations on the working group maining list it's yogish and one or two other people and it's Eric and Bradford that's it we we we have it's extreme it's anemic and we can't like this is not how I can push I can as a chair me and pry we can just go ahead and say all right we're done we sign off on the on the working but it would never progress to the isg our job is to demonstrate rough consensus and running code you got the running code bit but we have we're nowhere near to demonstrate rough consensus yeah I have a hard time to I mean yeah sorry yeah sorry try to cut the kill I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "I try to understand um uh when the chair says that hey there's only few people that participate in in this work uh and you cannot claim there is a consensus because we need more people from different let's say industry or company that participating uh now assuming the trend continues to go like that what would happens to this work because clearly as you said we only have working would get closed down well close down okay yes the working group I think that's I think given uh our current state of progress the isg I would be I'm kind of surprised they haven't talked to us about that already okay okay got it if if there is no active participant more than what the currently uh appear in the group uh then the the plan is to close down this group I I I don't want to use I think the plan is a bad word here I think it's the inevitable result okay I I use inevitable result because you it is inevitable result and the reason for that it's historic right the ITF is kind of worry about one or two vendors sort of coming in with a more or less baked standard and then having it doesn't mean that you have to change stuff I want to be very clear about that I think Eric made it also clear you don't have to change a word in a standard but you have to have people here a diverse set of people who actually review stuff and say yeah this is good because and not I understood understood I I just want to see because you clearly make the comment about uh not enough people if the trend continue uh the likelihood the end results as you call inevitable results will be to dissolve or disend this group correct thank thank you so I had I have joish and Aron I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "don't know if you're you want to remain in the queue Sue or I actually had the same question that Sue was going to ask so yeah I actually was going to ask the same question as Sue was going to ask and he asked it and I I just have one more question that the charter that we have defined it's very broad as I have mentioned in several emails and it doesn't exactly like the problem as well so maybe that needs to be addressed as well but as you mentioned if the group is heading towards the outcome that you mentioned I guess it becomes a mood point I'll y to Alan yep I just wanted to to wrap up with like what what is a path forward here because I think the big thing I'm hearing is there's not enough participation from other people other than one or two organizations so can we make a plan to actively recruit feedback from other organizations in particular the people from Apple if you have relationships with people in these other companies can you ask them to show up to the mailing list or show up and actually speak because I think I think Leaf is absolutely correct that we're really only hearing a couple of voices indeed and just to be very clear about this I think we need a little bit more than just a raised hand yeah Sue or or Aon one of you or want to speak I think I think I think um it's great that that like I see a lot of people on the call here who I haven't seen before that's great um so I think people are probably need suggestions about what kind of feedback they can provide and what are some specific next steps they can take to demonstrate that that um that interaction so the leaf or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "proi do you have any suggestions for like very concrete next steps somebody can take to keep this going I I think the concrete suggestion that you provided iron is the is the right one um and is it is actually one that I um that we talked to um to the contributors like from the first day of the bu right like let's get all of those other contributor companies in here to to help out with this in fact I actually tried to recruit ASA ablo because I had a suspicion that the the the key Manu Lo manufacturers would be interested in this and for some various reasons they didn't have time and they didn't kind of they were aware of the work didn't sort of express enough interest um but yeah that that is the way to do it so we're at time um so anybody from like Su Maas yish wants to take this as an action step that you want to go and recruit people from other verticals or other interested parties to come and contribute well I I I think there are couple of things as I think uh left has said right so there are people who may be interested they just do not have the b b resources uh this is very unfortunate but this is uh I think true for many people many organization unfortunately uh I think giving feedback via email I don't know whether uh but I I think people already committed to some of the work or implementation uh if this is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "information that I think this group wants to hear certainly we can encourage people who have uh interest in implementing uh to know maybe at least show their interest to to the group right but again it could be difficult as well one have to understand some member company may not wants to go and even disclose what they have in plan but they will be willing to show their support like hey I really like this this this draft versus the other draft they can raise their hand right without disclosing more information but I heard that left says that yeah this is not what I want I I can understand the logic right uh but I I think there is is a very difficult questions to to uh to provide so let me be clear about sort of what what constitutes rough consensus in the it have right that is it's kind of sometimes it's kind of hard to judge right but what we what you typically do as chair you look at the review activity around the draft right how many have read it how many have left comments on it how many have sort of said I read it I think it's good I read it I think it's good but you know we changed this comma here right it's this we're looking for signs of active engagement and cons expressions of consensus around the draft that's what we're looking for right um and it if if we have a a situation where you know a and again this is not the first time this is not the first rodeo we've had in the ITF where where people groups bring work into the ITF and say this is why did De flud already but there's really no kind of resources to work on it um and we're done that effectively takes it out of the running for an ITF protocol I I I don't disagree with you I think uh one one thing that I wants to maybe I I think uh early on I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "Matias may have mention that I think that's true in general right uh this particular draft uh you can say it as a draft in ITF but this is what has been I think uh discussed uh in other Forum pretty extensively People review it uh their security team internally look into it everyone is comfortable that's what uh people wants to implement it right so uh putting the same exercise uh because this is not you have to go back to those people who go and review and and go and join it for the same uh thing uh is not the best use of their resources as well right so I I understand where the difficulty from from FF perspective from the process side uh but I think uh we have to to acknowledge that uh for people who already uh committed and already review it uh by their respective team internally coming to iatf again to do pretty much the same thing again uh and ask them to review and it it may not best use of their time too if I may suggest what sounds like what you're saying is that um CCC members have uh spent some time looking at this if that's the case having them chime in with their reviews and retrospectives could be useful but more specifically what is alluded to is the reason for bringing this to the ITF is to use it in other verticals and presumably those other verticals were not part of the CCC and did not do that work prior so that would be where they could do that work in the iatf well first I I do not know uh the uh whether the other ver will be willing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "to come at the same discussions like I mentioned right uh the second thing I I think is also important right now uh if we continue to discuss right now uh I heard you guys uh mentions that hey we want to get as many as other vertical to come forward uh if there is no other vertical to come forward again what should we do with disc gr I think if other verticals are not willing of putting the work then that argues that there is not the interest to pursue an etf's protocol so again the out the unevitable inevitable outcome is to disband this group more or less I I think what you could do is you could take the current uh draft vov and sort of do an an individual submission and a and a of go ask for an individual track submission then it's published as an informational this that that has been done by by other uh companies in similar situations there's the famous negotiate protocol for for Kos on the on HPD for using coros with htdp that was kind of Fairly widely deployed actually but never um never documented other than in an informational RFC um so that could be done okay that that is a good suggestion left because that is not actually ANF concern yeah I I I I'm sorry to cut you off but I I I think this ous group I think has been in operation for already some time yes um right so I and as as as I mentioned if if if it's already been some time there are no other vertical people that who may be interested in in implementing and come to this group uh for for some time already I think maybe we can make that fair assumptions that no one has the bandwidth to come and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "support the work uh yeah if this this group disend what you suggest maybe one way to move forward uh as well I'm sorry I I I no that we are well over time yeah thank you everybody uh we are over time um and leave had to drop I think I think it's connection got cut okay so we'll um we'll talk with the ads and uh we'll drop the next steps on the emailing list I think there needs to be a serious discussion around with the ads uh for the path forward for Tigers so um to stay tuned uh we'll drop something on the meeing list soon with the next steps uh but thank you everybody thank you thank you bye bye byebye"
  }
]
