[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "[Music] okay folks I think it\u0027s time to take our seats and get ranked ranking for second session of the MLS ITF 104 well welcome again the blue sheets are going around as I said earlier this is the MLS session of ITF 104 you\u0027re in the wrong place I\u0027m here to stay and learn a little bit or take off your call the chairs were nikkor myself and the secretary of control I see you had to take off to go back home but he\u0027ll be watching I\u0027m sure listening here\u0027s the note well it\u0027s Thursday hopefully you\u0027ve seen it by now basically anything he\u0027s saying to you will be used against you you\u0027re gonna be recorded get to the microphone to talk um if you know about IPR supposed to disclose it there\u0027s any kind of problems you can talk to Bo buds team and there\u0027s a bunch of BCPs to tell you about how the internet standard process works codes of conduct and all kinds of things if you have any questions you can ask us or followings that are in the know well requests we need a minute taker and a jabber scribe before we can proceed what\u0027s nice about being around for here for a long time as you know a lot of people\u0027s faces and so you can basically wait and for a couple minutes and then you just pick someone so again minute taker all we need to know is decisions you don\u0027t need minute by minute blow-by-blow all right Chris you\u0027re the man and a jabber scribe please all right cool now since we actually do use wired I don\u0027t know if anybody in wire Shawn the blue sheet says they\u0027re coming around obviously to the microphone please state your name at the mic depending upon the mic you may have to eat the mic so don\u0027t be offended if somebody says eat the mic that just need to get closer let\u0027s keep it professional at the mic so our agenda for today it\u0027s on the right so the protocol we\u0027re gonna start with the issues within the protocol draft we actually discussed the simplified key schedule and I don\u0027t know if you think we need to redo it today because of odds here Richard or or what but we can the other issues that we\u0027re going to talk about our common framing and lazy updates and then Ahmad and Rafi on some stuff on Federation which we talked about it at the interim and then Sophia is going to talk about some deniability that we can do Karthus gonna give us a formal security analysis update and then we\u0027re gonna try to do some next interim planning Richard yeah I don\u0027t think we need to go back to the issue 90 I\u0027ll talk to a man one-on-one okay great that is a limit all right so that just means that Raphael is up Raphael here\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:26",
    "text": "clicker thing good morning all right Zoey we\u0027re going to start with common framing which is something that we\u0027ve been discussing for a while another is a at least one concrete proposal so to give a bit of context and also to state clearly what problem we\u0027re trying to solve on the security and privacy level the idea is to find a common format to encrypt handshake and application messages the reason behind that is that for example add messages and remove messages can leak information about who has been added to the group and who has been removed in particular add messages have the identity the credentials of the members and so if handshake messages are not encrypted that information lives in these messages in clear text and since handshake messages have a certain lifetime you expect them to be stored on a server for a certain time until they\u0027re finally being delivered to the client this is information that is stored on disk in the cloud somewhere and so if you look at all the add and remove messages you can infer who is actually in the group so this is the problem we\u0027re trying to address here mostly is to protect the identity of members there are some conflicts when you start encrypting handshake messages one of them is that in the past we\u0027ve been discussing the concept of server assist where the server could provision new clients with public keys in a tree so the server would basically maintain a view of the public keys of the ratcheting tree so that new clients wouldn\u0027t have to get that information from existing clients and it would simply be more efficient if that could be retrieved from the server so this becomes impossible of course if you completely encrypt and check messages at IETF 103 I think occurr made the point that the best strategy would be to first encrypt handshake messages and I like to think of what needs to be leaked to the server in order to build the trees of public keys so this is essentially what\u0027s happening now we are encrypting first and then we can selectively additionally leak some information to the server the other thing is that encrypting handshake messages mostly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "only makes sense in a scenario where the server shouldn\u0027t know what the roster is so just as a reminder the russa is the list of members in a group if it\u0027s the requirement that the server should know what the roster is and it probably needs to be some mechanism how the server gets updated on that as well and then encrypting handshake messages might not be necessary or even be counterproductive so we were looking for a common framing for both handshake and application messages so the the struct on the left here has a header with some metadata the the group ID so every message paid handshake or application pertains to a certain group a certain epoch of that group and comes from a sender which is a member of that group in addition to that we distinguish between different content types which at this point in time is only a handshake an application could be more in the future and then finally we have the the payload of the message depending on whether it\u0027s an tracker replication message and the whole thing is signed in the end so this is a plaintext Amira\u0027s message so we have two proposals currently one is a proposal where we encrypt all the things we just saw in the previous slide but we keep certain data in the clear so the left struct here the MLS inner plaintext basically it\u0027s just an instruction on how to serialize the plaintext message we saw earlier how to append the signature how to get padding for free and on the right that is now the the encrypted message but you will notice that the group ID the epoch the sender and the generation are still in the clear in the header of that ciphertext so the ciphertext is is the MLS inner plaintext from the left and just as a reminder so the generation is for a given sender in the application key schedule we have forward secrecy and we have fair trade forward and the generation then basically indicates where we are in that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:26",
    "text": "chain so this is the one proposal the other one is a slightly more involved and the idea here is that the data we saw previously in the header meaning the sender and the generation are additionally also encrypted but they have to be encrypted under a different key we\u0027ll get to the encryption keys in a bit so what we do here is on the lower left side we see the alternative 2 for the MLS cipher text struct so what we still have in the clear is a group ID and the epoch and there is no way to properly allocate that at this point we also have the content type and the clear so that we can distinguish between handshake and application messages and this is important because for now we assume that with tree can we need strong ordering for our handshake messages maybe not update messages but add and remove messages for another require strong ordering whether whereas application messages do not have that requirement so if we conflate the two in a common struct it shouldn\u0027t be a requirement that application messages now also inherit this property of being strongly ordered the server side because that could be problematic since we expect to be there to be many more application messages than handshake messages and that could lead to problems like starvation if if the server needs to tell clients that they have to re-encrypt because the epoch is change so we expose this in the clear and then the sender data which we see on the upper right the sender and the sender generation that will then be be encrypted under a group key it cannot be a sender specific key because we don\u0027t know who the sender is at that point we just reveal that inside and and then there is some additional indication how the data should be authenticated in the aad scheme so in particular the the sender data and the the fields for the ciphertext so regarding the keys application messages as such are unchanged they are being encrypted with a percenter key that comes out of the application key schedule for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:26",
    "text": "handshake messages the idea is to derive a new key from the key schedule and in terms of authentication so we have the a Eid authentication that certains that is certain sender is part of the group then the whole message is signed such so once we know who the sender is we can also verify that signature and then then with the confirmation key that comes out of the the group key schedule so in this scheme we have signature that covers the Mac instead of Mac cover signature as it\u0027s the case in TLS and it remains to be seen if that is actually a good thing to do from security perspective and as a note Sigma is agnostic of that because now that covers the other yeah that concludes that in the end we have some open questions so one of the questions is is it fine to review the content type so just as a reminder that is what is in the clear now so that we can distinguish between application and handshake messages do we leak some information that we shouldn\u0027t leak by revealing that the other option is the other question is is it worth encrypting the center and the generation I mean there is no cryptographic identity in the sender it is it\u0027s really just an index so you if you don\u0027t have the roster you cannot clearly say who the sender is but just looking at one handshake message but you could still aggregate that data and get a better view and what\u0027s happening in the group and then for academia the question is whether we find with switching the order of signature and Mac as opposed to TLS so I don\u0027t live in a payment for loss point my understanding from reading Sigma is that\u0027s technically okay but like other words a good idea like I leaved people who know these protocols better i mean i germany aimed towards cooking as much as i can also have to as i think was I apparently I said last time that I don\u0027t recall so um the with a content I used to me that with the content type we have a somewhat difficult problem which is that we\u0027re trading off two values one is key separation between the handshake and the and the content data which otherwise it was otherwise nice to have for analysis reasons and um the second is revealing the kind of type now is leaking the information now they\u0027re sort of like an abstract reason left like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:26",
    "text": "that because um you know just general a leaking phrase you want to have is not good but there\u0027s actually a so not like fantastic but like sort of concrete attack um that is is a lot of our building content type and it\u0027s this if the if you don\u0027t force Quincy um it is basically that it allows the attack that the message delivery service maliciously to basically um gag updates from giving client by basically just not sending them by just removing the from the message stream unless you have for sequencing between them then that menu our problem now maybe you could have forced sequencing and that\u0027d be fine I think the the idea is like that I shouldn\u0027t be like obviously you can just take me out of the group I don\u0027t let me send messages right but um what you shouldn\u0027t be able to do is a lot of my messages to get through but not let me Rika and so um so if I think when I talked to you earlier you said that you know it wasn\u0027t important to have those sequenced but it potentially is because otherwise well happen potentially happens is this attacker says well it\u0027s fine if like Ben talks the group but I want to let him Riki\u0027s or if I\u0027m gonna see a handshake Meister I just drop it on the floor so um now so obviously only kind of never revealed makes that easier um they\u0027ll potentially be stall sequence numbers and they\u0027ll be fine on the um it\u0027s also the case obviously that you learn more about the group structure um you know if you\u0027re if your server by picanha types awake right yeah I mean just to be clear so for now the assumption is that hand check messages needs to be you need to be order an application messages don\u0027t I mean that might be wrong but that\u0027s the service core right now what to the point that the content type might revealed some information there the plan has been made that this could also be revealed by just looking at traffic patterns because handshake messages have a certain size and they\u0027re the they\u0027re not necessarily indistinguishable on the network from application messages that\u0027s the planet for that earlier yeah it\u0027s certainly true um I think obviously we could go to some effort to make them out the case that we have padding and those kinds of things I think you know I don\u0027t feel like as a matter of principle I guess I prefer not that not to have it this way but like maybe it\u0027s have to um it\u0027s um I guess um there is one bother um you know when we looked at this in TLS there is like one way to away without having to having nothing I\u0027m going to clear up itself keys separation which is you travel decryption so that is like awesome but like you know if handshake misses are very rare then you know that you just do this you just do application travel occur from that you and then you uh you know use the handshake even fails since um like again I don\u0027t know if this is like kind of the wall tracked um before I like sign known for traffickers I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "wonder if I reverse say it was okay yeah that\u0027s clear the consequence so if you drop the the yellow content I appeared here you would have to try a number of keys basically conceal the sender is this is a new kind Gilmore so when you say a number of keys I believe it\u0027s the two right yeah one is also another active point that so so I want to echo what Eric just said which is that it in and point out that these choices that are proposed here and least in these slides are pushing us in the direction of turning over significantly more information about group structure and good and and traffic analysis to the delivery server and those are significant architectural changes that grant the delivery agent significantly more power in this context and if that\u0027s what we just that we want to do then we need to make that pretty clear I think in the architecture document because I\u0027m not sure that the architecture document currently acknowledges how much power the delivery server has this is I believe this isn\u0027t this is a significant increase in the power of the delivery server I\u0027m not happy about that I would like this scheme to have to put less power in the hands of whatever centralized agents we actually have to put up with which information are we talking about exactly yeah apart from the content type let\u0027s use two main questions about sorry you had two main questions one is about the content type and one is about whether the sender and generation need to be encrypted and into the more that we expose in both of those the more power the centralized agents have right I mean for the content-type this is what is being exposed I think in in both proposals whereas the center and generation this is updated in the proposal number two you just be clear what\u0027s in the proposal in the pr we have up right now exposes all of this and so the additional proposals base to protect the generation said there that\u0027s why we\u0027re reacting kind of puzzled by your comment because we\u0027re increasing relative to what\u0027s in the pr right now the only thing is that we\u0027re we\u0027re still revealing the content type so I think we\u0027re aligned on protecting the sender and generation that those aspects it\u0027s just the question of whether these questions about ordering or sufficient to justify the content site okay so sorry I\u0027m responding to the question that if you can move the slide to the side that has the questions that basically says is it worth it to protect the sender and generation and I\u0027m saying guess who and that but and I\u0027m not and I\u0027m not okay with revealing been Caidic all know that in our Charter we are not explicitly chartered to like encrypt as much as possible in the way that TLS was you know TLS has explicitly charted to encrypt as much as possible Jake but we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:29",
    "text": "are charted to learn from the lessons in other protocols like you know OTR double ratchet and whatnot and I would certainly lend to support in general the idea if it as much as we can which I think has been mentioned a couple times already maybe we can change the wording there Benjamin I think for now we say that we try and miss Kate as much as possible data that it\u0027s personally identifiable data but encrypting as much as possible it\u0027s probably Magister on the wording I Kartik Pergamon Andrea so related to the question masked they\u0027re switching Giotto signature and Mac usually not a problem in fact at some point I suggested in TLS one three that you should switch the order unfortunately the Mac is called the finished message so it would have been weird for it not to be the last message so we didn\u0027t do that but I didn\u0027t propose that but you could actually in some cases it helps so we can look at it but I think be okay second thing is that we really do want the likies used for uncheck to be different from the keys use for the application later also because for for compositionality improves its it\u0027s critical but more practically you want to think about it as suppose when decrypting the handshake message you then look at the format you leaked something somehow okay so the decryption of the hand clip message leaked something we do not want that to affect the leakage of application data because an attacker will take an encrypted application yet and it doesn\u0027t handshake it see if you managed to decrypt it and then see what what comes out of it and if it comes out and says oh this is not a valid handshake message its revealing something about the application did I miss it I sent you so you have to be careful about this as I will really love key separation I really highly support that also yes we should try to encrypt sender and generation for the content type the only point I would say is I don\u0027t see a very strong reason for hiding it but the motivation you came up with was that the handshake messages are ordered but the data messages are not but the ordering there is not I think sort of sufficient motivation in some sense because even the data messages have a causal ordering so you can think that suppose every message instead of saying I am message number I what the instead say I am causally coming after message number J then the same property will hold for both the data and the handshake in the handshake we know that there\u0027s only one message of the Jew which is J plus 1 in the data there could be many messages which are costly it just has to say what is the previous message indeed that I\u0027m I\u0027m causally related to yeah I\u0027m saying I mean I\u0027m not saying that that\u0027s a reason I\u0027m just saying that the this could weaken the ordering constraint in both and it would be sufficient for a lot of use cases yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:33",
    "text": "DK just pointed that actually we could do title description and ID pose but it\u0027s well how decription I mean we could definitely encrypt the content tab as well and our secret that\u0027s known only by the group and that would be a solution that we would have to tightly fit yeah but till the consequence is the server enforces from ordering an application as well yeah so this is dkg and sorry youyou you said a phrase that\u0027s kind of I don\u0027t know if I could call it a pet peeve of mine or whatever but you said personally identifiable information we want to hide it personally I didn\u0027t I don\u0027t know whether that\u0027s actually in the Charter if it is I missed it and who do the actual dog put up my okay so this so let me just a personal identifiable information is a legal fiction and it is far more fiction than anything else the history of re-identification and D anonymization and all the other kinds of research that have gone on make it quite clear that personal identifiable information is not a coherent category and there\u0027s much more important things beyond personally identifiable information that can have concrete harms when you expose them so I want to make sure that as a group we aren\u0027t just thinking that what we need to protect is personally identifiable information because that particular term is something that lets people get to sort of miss the forest for the trees right it\u0027s very easy to say oh well that\u0027s a social security number or that\u0027s a bank account let\u0027s ignore it let\u0027s protect that but the rest of the stuff isn\u0027t that important this is messaging the content of my message is not PII but we\u0027re trying to protect it too so I just wanted to like just to call that out if you find yourself thinking oh well is it PII that\u0027s like I think that\u0027s a dangerous way to think when we\u0027re trying to design strong security protocols we could certainly make some trenches in the architecture dozen that respect oh yeah I think yeah I mean I basically geg that you know we\u0027re gonna list of what what what what stuff we know we we printer er I think we should be trying to encrypt as much as feasible now like you know the question of this is piece of wool it\u0027s like an interesting question but like you know like unless as a concrete reason for if we have the all over things being equal as a concrete resurfacer day to be revealed on to the the point car that was making I just thought I want to sharpen here is what\u0027s important is the or not just the organ tensioning messages prepare any country message with respect the data messages because as I say that the the time kind of event is one where I\u0027m apparently a member of the group but I\u0027m is never allowed to update my team material so um so is it\u0027s fine to have like some sort of partial ordering of messages but it\u0027s got to be the case that basically that the receiver can see that there\u0027s like a missing message out of my out of my out of my flow there was like a hamshank message that it no longer there on now you can get that you can you can get that um by just having one set of sequence numbers effectively "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "um expand both keys I have no idea like what that doesn\u0027t any kind of keys approching guarantees are we fine but like you guys really get that so it\u0027s only not trying to say you have to have to exclude the content type in order to get that in rates babe or or and have to um you know could encrypt the content Mary at this behavior but I\u0027m just saying like that\u0027s the property you need if you want threads attack and you can also just say like this is a dumb attack and like I\u0027m care about I don\u0027t feel true but one could say that so just in the interest of making progress I might make a suggestion for how to move forward here it seems like there\u0027s pretty good consensus that we should be protecting the sender and generation we should do that that bit of things but less certainty around this content type thing like we there may be some attacks here there may be significant strains that make ordering hard so I\u0027m kind of I think what I might propose is like let\u0027s go ahead and do basically what we\u0027ve done on the slide here expose the content type for now but kind of file a new issue continue to think about this or in question think about whether we can also hide this constants I\u0027ve been in a future version does that seem like a plausible just like incremental work strategy here well I guess we\u0027re not you know we\u0027re not quite at the quick stage where we\u0027re like you know having to you know have like after Congress in order to file a new issue so I think I\u0027d certainly like to keep that question know whether we can improve the content type open and um I think the question but I think that he\u0027d the question of whether or not we\u0027re trying to prevent you know sort of a suppression you guys grappa woods so I think you know that I don\u0027t think you can punt um I\u0027m happy to sort of like Anna faking progress take this take this this PR and then they have an issue for the pipe that we can get with later as you know maybe dkj and I and others who care about this can sit down and try to like a reason about a better way to do it then like the kind of clumsy ways you come up with so far but I think we have to dress the order in question um at some point don\u0027t happy to not do it right now yeah I think the subtext is that proposal is I think we\u0027re trying to get in you know the next few weeks to a person that where we can start you know have a bit of stability and a bit of Interop and a bit of analysis and so like if we could go ahead and address the sender and generation privacy in that version and then like in the next next version I gotta make hat on I think this is this look this looks pretty good if you have to take it to some analysis in my analysis slides I will say and I want to say this for this one as well this is a new feature that has a specific goal with respect to privacy I would prefer any such new feature to also come with a crisp as crisp as possible even if in formal definition of what the privacy or security goal is rank addresses why the previous design does not address it and why we think this addresses it will give us a clear target for analysis good punch so you can sort of answer that question I think the original thing of the common framing is not to encrypt the message it\u0027s just like to keep everything and all the same message formats and the idea is that while we audit we might actually be good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:37",
    "text": "into protecting that stuff instead of just leaving it in a clear that\u0027s it so the it\u0027s actually a confidentiality argument for the group for the group message if I can touch it yeah that\u0027s true we\u0027ve conflated common framing and handshake encryption into one thing here so about encrypting the type I think and Joelle Alwin I think all things being equal be nice to encrypt that but if it comes at a price one thing to consider is that these these messages is it\u0027s probably in the end going to be realistic to detect what\u0027s a handshake message without even looking at the cipher text or anything just looking at the timing of when it\u0027s sent because these are automated messages they\u0027re going to be sent according to some disk I think traffic analysis just it\u0027s probably going to leak in reality a lot of information about whether it\u0027s handshake or not so whether we encrypt it or not that\u0027s going to be the case so the price that we pay for encrypting it should probably take into account that we\u0027re probably going to leak out information in a lot of implementations anyway or last at least use cases so it\u0027s not clear to me that the price is worth paying this is dkg just to respond with my typical traffic analysis response here at the IETF you\u0027re right that we do currently tend to leak quite a bit of information in terms of traffic analysis if we go ahead and make decisions that say oh well too bad so sad we might as well not bother then we have no way to actually push for doing countermeasures to traffic analysis in the future because they\u0027ll say why bother there\u0027s nothing to protect it\u0027s all in the clear we there\u0027s a research agenda that\u0027s growing right now in academia and in other places to try to do effective countermeasures to traffic analysis that may be a fruitless project we don\u0027t know but if we define our protocols in such a way that traffic analysis that you can\u0027t do a job counter measure because data is in the clear then we\u0027ve just sort of voided that work and so I want to I want to caution us against saying too bad so sad traffic analysis wins because we did we haven\u0027t even really tried and we shouldn\u0027t rule it out by her protocol decisions okay to make a point here I think the main problem is that we could encrypt everything Thailand decrypt the content-type specifically if you want but at the cost of adding to pad the application messages at the same size as the maximum size for check messages which is probably to me it\u0027s unrealistic so I think we should my point is that we should move to like as a first step at least move to just stay with the contact in nuclear and keep the sender and generation and do an extra non trying to encrypt ethnic sense this is dkg again okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:39",
    "text": "I\u0027m at this is my last time at the mic on this issue if we make this change so that it\u0027s in the clear then the people who do have the use case and who are willing to pay the cost for padding and traffic analysis countermeasures have no way to do it right right so I\u0027m saying we should try to encrypt it we should try to interpret from the outset it was a pain in the ass to get excuse me for to get the content type to be encrypted in TLS and I think it was worth it that that we worked on that and I don\u0027t want to go through that same thing again if we can get it right the first time here so easily my tomorrow so it\u0027s to be clear handshake messages here add and remove or it comes update as well if it includes update my concern if always want it to patch update with actual user data message so this should hey was traffic analysis so if you want to add and remove only in this case to reveal the quanta type I\u0027m fine with this if you can patch update or merge update with actual user data message I mean through that entry cam I think currently update messages don\u0027t have to be strongly ordered yeah I don\u0027t know how confident we are that that actually works at this point so in that sense yes we could keep update messages out of the scope of handshake messages yeah but again I\u0027m not confident that that works as advertised this is Joelle when again so maybe a compromise would be to make it an extension so that people who want to also go ahead and implement further traffic analysis defenses can then use that extension and the people who don\u0027t want to do that don\u0027t have to pay the price for encrypting content which is you know only a partial solution to a problem so maybe that\u0027s a good compromise know what wasn\u0027t I think I think I liked Rich\u0027s proposal which is people this topic for a little bit I mean we\u0027re going to get shot on a chaton wire about there other ways to attack this problem that might actually give you both favors you want so I think like this like like ah the ah so like well I would just is like we take mrs. ringing one which is like clearly like easier to execute on and least the content nuclear and um because I don\u0027t think this is the way I\u0027d probably want to encrypt it on the type or you want to you want say you want to you want to but you boil the can type be the clear right okay I guess resumes you\u0027re right you\u0027re right sorry my mistake um you\u0027re right sorry it\u0027s a lot along with long night so yeah I mean I think like like given the new census and crooking these things let\u0027s go ahead with this and I\u0027m like if we figure out good way to do the content type then we can definitely do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:39",
    "text": "it if we don\u0027t forget a good way to kind of type them like we can fight about whether the bad way is better than like the thing we got but like I I guess you know that commitment you\u0027re making is like we\u0027re gonna keep this thing up an issue or we examine it not just we\u0027re gonna like front of the floor but I\u0027m like happy to do that yeah I think that\u0027s a good conclusion for now we\u0027re rolling the issue now good and then maybe someone can come up with a concrete proposal or we can encrypt the content type and retain maybe the idea of having the strong ordering on the handshake messages okay I think that concludes it I believe the next one is gonna be monetary so that\u0027s me again sorry so hmm this is something that we started discussing at ITF 103 specifically this only has to do with performance that\u0027s a reason here what we\u0027re trying to improve it is not to increase security or privacy at this point and so what was identified is a bottleneck situation where in a multi-device context device is being added to an account and then has to be added to all of the groups of that user so as a reminder typically messaging systems that are being actively used there are many groups and most of these groups they\u0027re inactive because at some point people were added to the group they\u0027ve interacted a bit and then the group dies after a while and there\u0027s typically no particular recycling around that but so we\u0027re in a position now where we keep up the stage of the crypt around that group so one proposal that has been made is that we could cryptographically shut down groups that are in inactive after a while and just keep them on the clients basically and and reactivate them if necessary so that is one way of solving that problem but that inherently means that MLS is not really capable of having many open groups at the same time in a messenger the other thing is that when you add a device and and this was for example also said by the gentleman from cabeza the last real word crypto in January in the context where you add a device to an account you don\u0027t have much time and you don\u0027t have many resources in general "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:39",
    "text": "potentially you don\u0027t have a lot of bandwidth or a lot of processing power so all of that has led to identifying this bottleneck situation and so this is a proposal of how updates could be more efficient particularly in this situation where they need to be issued across hundreds of groups how does it work a regular update has the whole direct path in it where it Kem\u0027s the value of the parent to its sibling for every level of the tree in a lazy update really only the leaf node of the sender would be replaced and we only send a public key to the group so to make that more clear visually on the right the the red leaf node is the one that is now issuing a lazy update so it overrides the value at the leaf and the rest of the path the direct path all the way to the root is being blanked so basically there are 4 steps to it the new leaf node is created but nothing is being hashed out the new value is sent to the group and everybody in the group then replaces that particularly if node and blanks the direct path so what is the immediate net result of that is that actually no crypto is done other than creating that leaf node so this is a very fast operation because you don\u0027t have to do multiple defilements and potentially we can even reuse a leaf node across different groups so this remains to be seen in analysis what the consequences are if you do that and so this new leaf node can be used by everybody else in the group for hpk so you can can values to it but it needs to be quite clear so we don\u0027t have any security around that yet because we haven\u0027t changed the keying material at all these cutters are still the same so we don\u0027t have any for secrecy and we certainly don\u0027t have any pcs so in order for this to become secure there\u0027s some rules around it so these lazier pets that can be chained and that there could be multiple ones also for multiple senders however before anything else is done it needs to be followed by real update which is then going to introduce new freshness going to heal the tree as well so in particular when the update is being sent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:40",
    "text": "by the same sender as the lazier plate and the direct path will be populated again but the update could also be sent from a different Center it\u0027s not a strict requirement that the same sender has to send an update so in terms of efficiency and this is exactly what I was saying earlier if you can batch update was through with a message because you are fine as long as no one is sending anything to keep the state as with you updates but you need to regular updates once someone send a new data so in this case it makes more sense to merge post messages in one big message like update and the new message data if if you can do the nourish you mean an update combined with an application my subject ok yeah I mean this would indeed be the case so if we imagine a scenario where we\u0027ve had a number of lazy updates because a group is completely inactive and then somebody wants to send a message an application message then that client has to first issue an update that\u0027s true so looking at the cost of it so with the lazy update we are in O of one whereas before we were somewhere between log an and and depending on how the tree is populated so this is dramatically more dramatically faster than a regular update and average and but this the costs that we just saved is basically postponed postponed in the sense that somebody else all the same client has to pay the cost later so the regular update is at least as expensive as it would have been had it been issued initially instead of the lazy update potentially a little more expensive because the tree is more fragmented now but the the difference is this can be paid by anyone so now we can make it about what client or what member has better resources so practical terms a desktop PC but really and a good internet connection has fewer problems to do that than say no to Android device on a 2g connection we might save some costs in total particularly in inactive groups because it might very well be the case that we never do any crypto operations in those groups ever again if nobody ever wants to send a message in that group we we don\u0027t do anything expensive at all so we\u0027re shifting from an ego strategy to lazy strategy with that and operations can be more expensive or a little more expensive but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:42",
    "text": "you might save on on a number of operations actually and so this allows us to do first to avoid bottlenecks such because we can postpone the cost but we can also have strategies around that where for example mobile devices typically don\u0027t do real updates unless it\u0027s really necessary where desktop devices can do them eagerly just because they have the time and the bandwidth and they\u0027re bored anyway so we have this sort of flexibility now around that of course it comes with a number of security implications that we would have to look at very carefully so Lacey update introduces state that is in between epics because the old epic is no longer valid so lazier pet could mean for example that device has been removed from a user account so we shouldn\u0027t use any key material from an epoch anymore but we don\u0027t have a new epoch yet so we\u0027re in this void between two epochs that needs to be very clear that during that time you shouldn\u0027t do anything except for sending other lazy updates or or ending that time with a real update and so on the analysis level this remains to be seen of course what what problems it would introduce could you just explain a bit more what\u0027s why is the old apakah not valid anymore what\u0027s the problem there I mean is it just that the new device can\u0027t decrypt messages from that Epoque are so in the multi device mode where you have a virtual client that basically has a subtree with origin devices if you remove the device from that account it leads to change in the subtree which one gets a new root root node value which triggers an update in whatever group that user is in so when you see a lazy update you don\u0027t know whether it is because somebody has added a device or removed a device you have to assume the worst case which is somebody has removed a device and then we want to have the usual security property still so a little more context here Alessia players are very similar to ads the structure is similar we don\u0027t need an index because we lazy app that really only can be done for yourself so the sender is implicit here and the difference is also what I just said so ads don\u0027t really require PCs we said that it\u0027s good enough to afford secrecy if our group agrees on ratcheting the the existing key matter material forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:42",
    "text": "we don\u0027t need any new freshness for ads but since lazy updates are not necessarily only ads that\u0027s what breaks the security promises yeah and then there could also be a lazy remove that works in a similar fashion I\u0027m not true a particular problem that would solve right now but at the very least it\u0027s something that could be considered if it makes sense so there we would basically tell the group to remove a certain participant in a certain spot in the roster and then the direct path of that leaf is also being blanked but there is no new freshness until an update is being issued when I come to the questions so the the first question is are there better ways to address bottlenecks I mean this is one proposal maybe there is much better one and in case we wanna investigate this further what are the security implications do we understand them well enough at some points to to be confident here as interesting as coming framing I see Kartik Pokemon indriya so answer the second question is that no we don\u0027t understand the security implications and because we are quite far behind I would say in understand even what blanking does in general one thing that was true in the original ERT proposal and we would like to preserve I think as we go and do modifications and the protocol is that we should have a pretty easy to understand invariants that are true for the tree at any point in time whether we are in an intermediate state after lazy update or at the end or whatever and the more intermediate states like this where somebody has updated their key but not yet updated the good key we have the more delicate those invariants become an invariants are not just important for proofs it\u0027s also because you can easily imagine implementations having D synchronized state and and lots of issues coming up because of concurrency or other kinds of weirdnesses and implementations I think at any point if I take the state of the group that I have in my device if I can say something about it that it is somehow consistent internally that actually gives me a much stronger basis for reconciling and things go wrong and there are too many cases here which you will have to think about carefully about how different people with different intermediately the update States interact and whether we can actually practically prevent them from making "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:42",
    "text": "actions between these two states which I don\u0027t understand well enough at this point okay yes I think the conclusion is here is that at ITF 103 we raised some awareness about potential bottlenecks in general now we have a concrete proposal here but more work needs to be done particularly on the analysis side to move forward with that but nonetheless we have this proposal now and that is something that can be kept in mind when proposing other changes to see and to what extent would be compatible with that yeah Richard Barnes I think this is this is one where it would be useful to kind of flesh it out a little bit in capr I\u0027m worried about kind of the complexity this is gonna introduce in terms of state management and so it would be helpful to see a slightly more concrete proposal I do think that there is sort of a potential like refactoring of the the algebra of these things like it seems like you could express an add as lazy add plus update for instance or remove as lazy remove plus update so I mean there may be some conceptual simplification to be had here for you tease out those primitives I\u0027m just not sure the complexity you know as it\u0027s currently expressed don\u0027t quite understand what the complexity implications are right now so yeah I\u0027d love to see PR on this yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s a good proposal maybe can be broken down to something that we already have all right thanks mom you\u0027re next mmm so this is an individual submission draft that we a mod brought this idea up in the interim this is an individual submission draft that essentially is not gonna hide it or considering we\u0027re doing a working group adoption call so think of this this presentation in that vein Thanks okay listen tomorrow we approach this up doing venture not June and there was some support for it since then Raphael and I submitted this draft and we\u0027re looking for I\u0027ll go through today during the use cases for Federation\u0027s summit challenges and I\u0027m not looking for any solution for these changes just if there is interest in this talk we\u0027ll try to solve it together later but not today so the goal so we are trying to summarize the minimum information needed to allow different MLS clients to the encrypt and decrypt each other\u0027s and this system should support either single shirt delivery service or more more even communicated multiple delivery services so there are two use cases in my mind like one of them is for what client land this is the most rated single shirt just case I assume end-to-end encrypted to web application so where multiple web clients can send secure message to each other so in this case MLS would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:44",
    "text": "implemented in the browser and if you communicate through the app through the JavaScript API and Emily since the process just committed to deliver service to retrieve kids a more concrete use case is using MLS in the product set up into indicated conference calls like what we call MLS a subsidy if you have something like this can easily keeps change multiple use MLS to bootstrap the calls and key updates when we will join unrolls of course another use case is different clients and different jury service like assume like enter an encrypted messaging across multiple providers like each must provider has their own diverse service has their own client and they want this client to talk to each other and this can be done either into it like client side and server side out and this is kiddies and watch more communication say anyone because we have multiple delivery services so in this example we have like group of four people ABC and there are two clients from their service B so on be one shot send message to the group if it does client found out it has to contact all delivery service including itself and then HTTP service will just connect it to their client so he will send them at the river service a and B and C and in every service we just forwards a message this might not scared on the other hand server-side sign is the same scenario P will just send some message to its deliver service which proxy all deliveries for other devices levels so be the recipe was different a message to be to user and to later service a.m. and see which there is a message to the user so what does call is this world so we are only focusing with the crepe to layer some other stuff without scope for now so it\u0027s for example mapping between user ID and watch TV series to talk towards their eluded exhibits it\u0027s up to the application how different they were service couldn\u0027t get to each other also let\u0027s the kitchen unless it become necessary for the Crypt prayer so the requirements we see for now is to define the message for receiving user and it gives an identity kids what\u0027s request what\u0027s our format of the request and the response so the request should have the remove user ID and what while my local support is separate sweets as symbolizes the response would be a list of user need keys you want for each device and h8 key would also have a long-term identity key again this is the change we see right now and I don\u0027t I\u0027m not looking for an institution for them today but I just setting them up like was most well most of them are actually coming from multiple service areas or even singles every service most of them are it\u0027s it\u0027s ok it\u0027s the same ones we have today but when wants whatever service distance becomes much more complicated like for example how to do version cipher Suites should we do another version musician beside what we have today neither any keys I we might end up doing so because they don\u0027t currently what working each each provider has and again handshake message or drink better of water I was singing like if we really if chicken look really requires handshake message ordering how this can be achieved with multiple service at how we synchronize the whole time meter data sharing like if the state served in the diversity of its "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:45",
    "text": "like rooster or any Lube state if you\u0027re really mostly raised here it\u0027s how this can be seen cries across all of them and lost one multi-device like if like after you start a group and one device is removed from provided provider a how do you identify other providers in the group like this device has been removed or added etc etc and that\u0027s it so the question is are we will interested in Federation is given general and work together so I can just speak for myself and and I\u0027m representing Google and refer everything to choir or Haiti interested in system a I want to see if other people are interested as well I\u0027m interested on both generally I think it\u0027s a good thing and I\u0027m excited about this part that the thing in the earlier slide where you were like let\u0027s put this in the browser and that makes me like more interested yeah I knew you like this this is Daniel con Gilmore I\u0027m also interested I don\u0027t I haven\u0027t thought deeply enough about whether this is something that we actually could adopt in this work group but I\u0027m definitely interested in seeing Rick regrets thank you for being so so Daniel on that point the the Charter is written to preclude Federation of the application layer but it is open to doing stuff with the crypto layer so technically it\u0027s in scope we\u0027ve kind of talked with Ben about whether or not it would work but I guess your point is whether we should do this now or later or what right I mean I\u0027m happy that we\u0027re thinking about it I\u0027m gonna and I mean at the very least I\u0027d like to make sure that we understand what possibilities we are precluding with any of the cryptographic choices that we make here fair enough exactly what I was hoping you were going Watson latter I think that we should think about Federation I\u0027m just a little confused about why I think it would emerge what crypto changes we might need to make I guess I\u0027m thinking a long line saying that IRC where you do have messaging and spread out even though there\u0027s multiple servers potentially spreading out all those messages Jonathan who attends CloudFlare I think this is very interesting and I think the joining a lesson to other applique is or until the protocols is more complicated than might at first be apparent can you in abrasive this so basically you you end up having to I have thought about this quite a lot and you sort of end up having to create channel bindings that are consistent and holds a lot of states just because otherwise you can\u0027t actually prove that everyone agrees on which MLS session is being used in the later protocol so if you\u0027re running a some sort of voice chat protocol separately over the top of this it\u0027s you can\u0027t just say ah yes we\u0027re using this group ID and assume "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:46",
    "text": "everything will be fine that it\u0027s it\u0027s quite complicated no that\u0027s a bad thing just like yeah it\u0027s not really do they know this for sure yeah yeah so : James I think it\u0027s really interesting and we\u0027d be interested in using it sort of you know said we would probably build products that took advantage of this we\u0027ve been going down that path already with not in a browser case which doesn\u0027t require any standardization for almost every use case you can think about but as soon as you want to do it in a browser I think we need standardization of how that would all work so we\u0027d be very interested in seeing that before observation in question you know observations like I think they\u0027re thinking about the right time in the lifetime of the group to do this work it seems like for this for work like this to make sense you need to have kind of the API of the underlying protocol be stable you need to know like what needs to be sequenced you need to know like when you need user Niki\u0027s and how those what those are conditioned on I think the good news I think we do have that pretty stable at this phase of the protocol so I think this is it\u0027s an appropriate time to start looking at this sort of work the question I had is like what degree of kind of concreteness of protocol are you looking at thinking about like is this kind of a general abstract protocol that you might implement in different ways in different context you thinking about making like an actual concrete definition of how you\u0027d handle this stuff room so as of today more of concrete-like I attend imagines can be integrated in so many protocols messaging browser like you\u0027re interested all of them this is dkg I just want to clarify my earlier comment because I realized I might have displayed enthusiasm for some parts that I\u0027m actually not enthusiastic about so there\u0027s these two different there\u0027s these two different use cases that you\u0027ve got here right you got this this one up here this on the screen right now and then and then you\u0027ve got right so if anyone\u0027s listening to the audio channel I\u0027m much more excited about the other one the one that\u0027s not on the screen right now I\u0027m more excited about the idea of different clients in different delivery services that I am about the operations in the browser I\u0027m not saying that it shouldn\u0027t happen the browser but I want to point out that we have done it\u0027s been very difficult for us to get browsers to the point where users have some sense of who they\u0027re talking to in the browser yes and if we turn TNT and we have this regular fight in TLS I\u0027ll keep trying to keep TLS a two party protocol and if we decide to try to make some sort of standard MLS multi-party protocol in the browser I think that the security model for what people think is happening in the browser will be even more disastrous than it currently is a grass is it possible to be even more disastrous than the current browser security model yes it is and I\u0027m warning us like let\u0027s make sure we don\u0027t make it worse sure just to be clear here I\u0027m not using one use case or the other because I heard something support use case some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:46",
    "text": "other resource others case the idea of the contracted support posts so I\u0027m not picking one over the other but I understand the concern with dog story Thanks Karthik alcaman India so in general the I mean I think this is a desirable feature to have one thing that I\u0027m a bit concerned about and like to understand better is that in standard MLS every member actually knows the full membership of the future roster full group stated stuff Federation will naturally lead a fear to cases where one organization would like to hide some part with free from the other so I mean just as a maybe of composing these things you may not actually want to transfer the whole tree state between the two now I think the proposal here is actually we do actually it\u0027s completely transparent it\u0027s just going from multiple delivery services but that\u0027s not how other federated systems what they do hide things underneath sub trees yeah this is exactly why I brought up the multi device was some system might handle most device are different in each other and you might just end up delivering to one device and the final others watching this little country pie why this provider right so the moment we kind of expand out those kinds of use cases and if one of them actually becomes the standard one I think the the security analysis becomes much more interesting and we need to think more about it because also so far we have since with one delivery service you\u0027ve actually said there\u0027s very little trust in the delivery service there\u0027s a lot of trust in the authentication service but not much in the delivery service and with multiple authentication services and in delivery services we will have to think more closely about what subsets of things could get compromised and what guarantees we get and so on I as such I think we just are assuming that all of them are are trusted and that would be the only default case we would have so this is not giving a central decentralization for sure it\u0027s the Magus Federation but we don\u0027t get any yeah that\u0027s correct Richard\u0027s just just to be clear I would expect whatever federated thing we end up with here to have the same security properties in terms of authentication invisibility that the base protocol has right this is just talking about how you tie together multiple delivery services and like distribute that crypto conversation over multiple delivery like it\u0027s just a change of transport with regard to things like hiding things underneath sub trees like there\u0027s nothing you need to prevent that anyway like even in the base protocol someone could always choose to distribute the private key for their for their distribute their private either identity key pair around to other devices and manage those as a consolidated thing and appear as a single device in the group so I don\u0027t think that\u0027s really a add the type of hiding we need to know for here this is you just want a second Richards point there in fact the assumption right now I\u0027m actually a little bit concerned that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:47",
    "text": "we\u0027ve just made the assumption that all devices will be exposed to the delivery service because I my understanding was that we have this ambiguity in the protocol that I actually prefer which is that I don\u0027t need to expose my devices I can potentially use my own EMA internal MLS session so that my own devices can share can can produce a key that then becomes one key that\u0027s part of an MLS session I actually I actually think that if we\u0027re making if we\u0027re gonna make an architectural decision that explicitly says all devices need to be exposed directly to the livery service I think that\u0027s a mistake I don\u0027t want to run this in that operation and so if you think that the cryptographic analysis changes significantly when we\u0027ve got subtrees I want to know I want to know what those differences are because to my mind that metadata hiding is actually a useful thing and I would I would hope that people would push for that to be the default sure I would literally responses I know he\u0027s working multi devices story but what the architecture doctor draft has to date assuming all devices are exposed like issued but has its own identity which you can\u0027t change but I don\u0027t want to like limit the Federation conversation to the multi device a story we can just take like a response from people like spin I don\u0027t reverse the topic but I know like Rafael and I are working on like on multiple story and I can respond it into more decades yeah just like to answer that that I\u0027m currently in the process of writing up something and then others which I mean as well to clearly document how the to multi device modes we\u0027ve been thinking about actually work and also so that we can then see how that works security wise in terms of analysis because for now we\u0027ve been floating these have years we\u0027ve been saying we can hide devices of a certain user account under a private subtree but we\u0027ve never really written it up we\u0027ve never thought about all the consequences of that so this is something that is going to happen now and that becomes even more relevant in the context of Federation of course so I don\u0027t really see how it is mandatory that all devices are exposed in the sense that if we are confident with the mode where devices are hidden behind a virtual client that is something that can absolutely be used in Federation and then therefore nothing is leaked around individual devices to clarify what I was saying earlier I don\u0027t think that all devices are exposed to the delivery service but I think all devices are exposed to all other members of the group that\u0027s where the same so in our analysis actually one of the architectural goals was that when I receive a message I know who the rest of the members of this group are and this members is an abstract thing right now it\u0027s clients maybe one day to be users or whatever now hiding devices is actually a great idea but if as long as we were saying that we are hiding all the devices belonging to a single user I could still kind of get away with it best thing are the member is actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:47",
    "text": "the user who\u0027s hiding his devices underneath now if you\u0027re gonna say that oh the members what I\u0027m gonna hide is actually a group of all Google members I hidden actually from all Facebook members now the guarantee there well the goal and architecture document that I should know who all I\u0027m or the members of this group becomes significantly weaker and we just have to be sure that that\u0027s what you mean in this situation yep okay so it\u0027s great that the draft doesn\u0027t answer all the questions there\u0027s actually some work to do which is what the working group would do so what I want to know is there would there be anybody that would be in violent objection of adopting this as a working group draft okay so with that said and since it only came out like two weeks ago I think what we\u0027ll do is we\u0027ll take the working group adoption call to the list and so like I said that seemed like there was support here I will note that in the message that we simple list then people can chime in there so that we can we can\u0027t we can do our consensus call from based on that all right thank you thank you very much month and next we have deniability so hopefully Sophia is there online I see her now hopefully she\u0027ll hit the button we can hear you fine okay nice there\u0027s no question when I want to change this light I have to say next right yes okay awesome so okay hi my name is Sofia and I\u0027m going to present about an ability in a group shot setting just a little bit exclaim around here this came up because we were doing a review of the from from the OTR world we were doing a review of the current drops of MLS and we noticed in certain parts there was some references to unlink ability and repeatability so we were wondering the in deniability repeatability or unlink ability was actually something that MLS wanted so I wanted to make this presentation to see if people actually want an ability in it or not or what limitations do they want so yeah next okay so just a little context that is sure that everybody or almost everybody in the room already know of course an ability come from the first proposal of OTR a messaging protocol in which it was proposed the idea of secure communication and having a secure way in which messages and encrypted unsigned but at the same time that you have this identification through the use of usage of signing you will also have a deniable way of actually authenticated a participant into a conversation and this came from the idea when OTA was first proposed that secure communication over the digital world should actually mimic what is action what is often referred as real casual war conversations and in real culture war conversations you the people often have deniability in the sense that and no one can actually prove "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:47",
    "text": "to anybody else that someone participated into a real conversation or said something in the conversation or sometimes even that the conversation actually took place other protocols took in pure inspiration from OTR for these the the signal protocol took inspiration from these their own protocol inspiration from this but at the end of the day has only been defined in liability in the terms of conversations of two participants because during that time there was only the thinking that the conversation would have been over two participants but today\u0027s in the today\u0027s world isn\u0027t that that we have a new communication approach with group chat but actually the group shot in a secure way is often more thought about because on work we use group chat actually to work and it\u0027s more often used in the real world next okay so basically what is the nobility I\u0027m sure that most of the people here know it\u0027s basically the property but anyone can actually deny having said something and go in a conversation or have been participated into a conversation this is often accomplished by the use of for ability of malleability inside of protocols what the nobility is not is that it doesn\u0027t prevent from someone knowing that a conversation took place the only thing is that there\u0027s no link between the identity of someone and the fact that the conversation took place next next so we\u0027re on properties with the confidentiality integrity okay okay okay so I also wanted to give a little overview of the different properties that in general secure messaging protocols have and of course this is defined by a very well-known paper that was written by Ugarit al in which there was this little bit of listing of the properties that a secure messaging protocol should have of course there\u0027s arrays and properties that I\u0027m sure people know here but important was in terms of deniability is of course identification something that iam Cobra has defined in terms of identification is that it should be entity identification meaning that if someone proves that that in order to prove the proof that our public key actually belonged to someone you have to prove knowledge of the secret key related to that and origin authentication in the sense that you will also have to prove that there\u0027s a well-defined search from which a message come from of course in terms of group shots something that is very very important is to have good participation participation Sisseton see that some people have already talked here in the room s PP speaker consistency tells us how solid seven and a global transcript and these properties are actually very important when talking about the nobility because some of these properties gets limited because of actually pushing some deniability properties so next okay in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:51",
    "text": "terms of deniability properties when this paper was first written there was not there were some definitions of the nobility which don\u0027t no longer hold today the first sample there was this notion of message link ability a message repudiation today basically these two properties are actually called message deniability because this actually talks about the fact that if you are having a conversation you can deny having silence that message and there\u0027s another property related to that to this which is participation deniability which actually says that someone should candy and I haven\u0027t participated into a conversation this other properties that are actually also related to deniability and I related to the fact that the nobility properties are pushed into groups out there for example trust equality why because some groups are protocols have actually defined that they will use a server I\u0027ll trust a server to to achieve deniability properties and sometimes especially from the OTR Ward this is actually something that does we want to be accomplished because there\u0027s this idea that you should not trust service because this is they can be the point of failure and of course I saw the properties from group childlike intractable membership expandable membership that I\u0027m sure people iam MLS have already talked about that is for example removing that user from a user child or adding a user to a good chat next and of course there\u0027s all the additional properties that are fundamental to group chat like for example out of order resilience and drop master resilience I\u0027m sure that is something that MLS actually wants because one of the goals that I heard that MLS wanted in the real world crypto from presentation is that they wanted to be protocol that is asynchronous so this is basically a property of a synchronous module next okay and now to talk about the new ability properties and this is something that we have been pushed forward in version 4 of ogia as I said in the past there was dis terms about repeatability and linked to ability right now in the current papers and academia small often refer only as deniability and then I ability now is Austin results in terms of George a person that is judging if someone participated or said something in a conversation and this often time is refers only their deniability in the sense that even during the execution of the protocol if someone is colluding with someone in the protocol there should be there should be in a way to provide evidence of participation rather than someone said a message in the conversation and of them offline deniability which is often the one that we often think about because it is the one that we explain when when after the fact that that conversation happened if you have a transcript someone or anyone could have generated that transcript next ok and what work has been already done the first work that was already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:51",
    "text": "done was by buying at Al and it was the first working working which there was this these trust on a server to actually to actually create a group chat and give deniability property sweet but it was proven by a young Goldberg at our that well it was actually another good construction because he put a full trust on the server because of this I incorporated I\u0027ll propose the first multi-party of the record messaging but it has also been proven that he didn\u0027t give all the deniability properties that they that it was wanted and of course he didn\u0027t give forward secrecy so it was not a great idea and it was quite often very criticized its by the signal protocol because the signal protocol called the empty Motl to it defined this as a protocol that actually didn\u0027t have saying what it needed to say so one of the most youth protocol right now in terms of group chat is of course the signal protocol and the signal protocol is has been also criticizing the service because it works a lot of trust on the server to actually as tiffen participant consistency and this bigger consistency and it also has not been mapped in a correct way what I did in ability properties of the signal protocol in the terms of our group shot so for example the new properties of the mobility of like on land reliability and also in the nobility have not been proven in in this kind of charge there has been some other research is currently happening especially late but Nikolas Cooper that is actually trying to push these new properties of the nobility into a group chat session next of course then just to briefly say about the limitation just to people know of course there\u0027s no clear still today no clear understanding which properties I can actually be achieved but a group shot setting in terms of deniability because him because there\u0027s no good understanding of hub offline the nobility and only in deniability we look in a group shot setting there\u0027s also another good analysis of what types of the nobility have been actually given by the protocols that I just referred to there\u0027s only one table of comparison that has been done by Nicholas Hooper at all so there has not been a really good analysis of it and as I said there\u0027s no inclusion with the new definitions and deniability the new definitions are just being pushed forward in the last few years so yeah so in terms of MLS I will say this can be something to be pushed forward but if for example the working group decides that I only want some kind of the nobility properties that were already defined in the past that\u0027s also that can be done but the limitations are very good will really be because in the sense that there has not been a real analysis of what how can the nobility properties will look like in a group chop setting next yeah and that\u0027s all I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:53",
    "text": "try to keep it very short because I didn\u0027t have a lot of time and there is the reference if people want to read it but thank you for doing this remotely put it on keeping it on point appreciate it Raphael yeah we\u0027re a breeze Thank You Sofia so I just wanted to mention that have been numerous talks because I don\u0027t hear anymore dick can you hear me okay right so just want to bring up that there have been some discussions about a relatively cheap version of deniability that could be combined into MLS that would probably give you message deniability and that will essentially work like sender keys with signal where the signature key would be delivered out of band over a deniable channel so that when the message is assigned with that you cannot directly tie that to an identity but it\u0027s not a very strong norm of deniability but it\u0027s something the only concrete thing we\u0027ve ever been discussing so far just wanted to that to be on the record yeah I so because there was a response to an email around that and I saw about that it\u0027s just what you want to tane about the inability because it\u0027s completely fine if a protocol in its security property says something like we only achieve weak message deniability in this sense that is completely fine but I don\u0027t know if that is something people will want to attain in the working with Nalini organs inside products I think if we do something like this it should be optional because for example a lot of our enterprise customers if they want their there you know they\u0027re mandated to you know watch certain trades certain customer interactions and so if we transparently tell them that we\u0027re monitoring your call for you know service or whatever and then later we can\u0027t prove that we did that that gets us into trouble with regulators yeah I think I will agree on that there was I did have issue that the work you hard about if they wanted to have like completely deniability no deniability or like optional deniability maybe something that would be nice is actually giving us optional because they will give users of the a choice between what they actually want to eat this is Daniel Carr Gilmore I just want to observe that anybody who\u0027s doing current to left knee or sms-based customer service has already has this problem with deniability because those protocols don\u0027t offer any cryptographic assurances whatsoever so if we think that regulators are going to take issue with lack of cryptographic verification which is what we\u0027re talking about here for deniability then those regulators are severely "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:55",
    "text": "under-resourced at present Halawa strong just one thing I don\u0027t understand mmm might be obvious when you say to my ability do you mean deny towards anyone who was who was not a member of the group at the time or deny including two members of other group of members the way and the group at the time okay when you are having a conversation with some group members of the chart you will have two that the people on the group channel will actually have to know that they are talking with the right person that\u0027s why in the terms of deniability often code then I will authenticate it because the people that is actually talking through the child with do need to know that they are talking to the right person to the authenticated person but anyone actually looking from their side after the conversation happen should not be able to provide proof of that any participant actually participated in the conversation or anyone who is interacting with a participant in the conversation should not be able to provide proof that a participant participated or some message will actually set by someone in the conversation is it clear okay so of course if a member is attesting to your to you having said something in the conversation then there is a kind of proof but it depends on the honesty of the person making the attestation so I think I see what you mean now thank you okay is Richard Barnes um I think I agree with some what some other folks have said this is probably gonna need to be an optional feature of the protocol because we had these cases where we need the opposite of deniability that said I think it would be interesting to look at kind of some cost-benefit trade-offs here sounds like you know there\u0027s these various flavors of deniability you know I think it would be interesting to see what are some of the approaches that one might take to adding this as a an optional feature of the protocol we\u0027ve discussed as Raphael pointed out some kind of exterior versions where you could kind of set the the inputs to the protocol to things that would be deniable and there might be some other more you know more in-band things so I think some some poor requests here or some some some fleshed out proposal would be welcome that\u0027s because I think we kind of need in order to decide what the next steps are we kind of need to understand the those cost trade-offs yes okay sorry no no no I was just kind of do the wrap up here because we still got one more presentation okay yeah thanks a lot for this presentation my summary is that we should explore this idea of deniability um maybe thinking about it as an optional feature but trying to figure out what the bounds are and what properties we\u0027d actually be looking for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:56",
    "text": "so thanks a lot for that all right Karthik you\u0027re up for analysis well you\u0027re not the bit we\u0027re going to beg your indulgence working group participants because we\u0027re a little bit over time so you\u0027re losing time on cookies all right so I\u0027ll keep this pretty quick I thought it was important to give a get the working group a little bit of an update on what\u0027s going on what we\u0027re doing and also for me to be able to collect information from others whose work I may not be aware of so it\u0027s just a brief update on what\u0027s happening in the security analysis wrong so the first thing to realize is that MLS already is going to be a pretty big protocol and many many key components and people are looking usually at one or two of these components but not everything and this you should expect so then the papers that will come out and MLS will be on one of these components assuming a lot of things about the others and not about the whole thing at least for a while so we all are aware of the key exchange bits this is the most studied part there was the ERT proposal in draft Syria which has a nice paper edge to it there was a freaking proposal draft one and now we are three Kemp plus blank nodes and there are new proposals coming through as well including some which you have heard of today so there\u0027s a lot of activity in this zone there\u0027s also been some proposals on how to do authentication what the credentials should look like what how to compose signatures and max to do the right thing and this had some analysis but not too much because this is still kind of a moving area and there has been some work on message protection which was presented last idea if you\u0027re in the interim and so on on what the key schedule should look like how application messages and handshake messages should be protected and so on and this again has it\u0027s very recent and there\u0027s a lot of work to be done here and not enough people are looking at what I do know off of people looking at and I\u0027m sure I\u0027m missing people so please let me know what you\u0027re doing so I can actually represent you to the working group and make sure that you are aware of any changes coming up and so on there\u0027s a bunch of people who have been doing symbolic analysis including us and profess a couple of Tamaran models one that was for a or T in one for that richer has been working on for some of the other components on the crypto side on the crypto proofs I know at least that Joelle and I have Kenny and so on I\u0027m working on something and I know there is something else coming out maybe from konradin and so on but this is still early days and mostly is focusing on the key exchange I would say and Benjamin is working on a verified implementation it\u0027s going quite well but these are all like not none of them is at a stage where you can say they\u0027re done I would say we are at the stage where we are still trying to understand what the security model and the definition should be and I think that\u0027s getting pretty solidly defined for the key exchange bits but not necessarily for the other bits and so all the proposals that are coming out of making me even more nervous because we are not even we haven\u0027t solidified what we have before we can even comment on what Federation would mean for example so but you can expect I would say in the next by the next idea for something a few papers if not at least one on the core "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:58",
    "text": "key exchange bit which a beauty can plus blank nodes or - like knows we don\u0027t know what people will end up publishing but that\u0027s sort of where we are so there were a lot of components I showed you before not so much analysis so far but in a way one of the issues I think when I have been speaking to academics and trying to get them interested in doing this analysis is that the process seems to dynamic so people don\u0027t know where to analyze and what to analyze so in particular we\u0027ve been doing lots of comments on github and then some of them making two drafts just before ATF\u0027s but we don\u0027t really I mean a lot of people don\u0027t have a I mean I am very involved here so I do have a reasonable idea what\u0027s going on but a lot of people don\u0027t know whether it\u0027s stable enough to analyze what they should analyze what will suddenly change under their feet because each analysis takes a significant amount of time and effort so I\u0027m going to make two process proposals and we\u0027ll take I\u0027ll take it on the list so we can all discuss this in a bit more detail and this is sort of like asks from the academic community as supposed to sketches suppose this I and Ben think would think these are good ideas but I\u0027m sure that other academics would agree with this as well the first one is that in in the TL learning from the TLS process actually we had so many drafts but there were only like four key drafts that were actually analyzed by most people because there that\u0027s where the main change is kind of baked in the goths table and they didn\u0027t change for another five six seven draft sections so I would like to have that sort of more big in here so that when we are publishing a new draft we also publish along with it maybe in an appendix saying which sections which think are now ready for analysis so that I can mix can publish papers saying you analyze MLS draft 0 5 which the author\u0027s told us this these five sections were ready finale\u0027 says and this is here\u0027s a contribution to the process so those sections should be designated as ready for analysis other sections should be designated as don\u0027t look at it don\u0027t bother because we will change this right now so it\u0027ll be a waste of time and of course we can change minor details like wire formats and whatnot but what you should promise is that at least for a few drafts to come maybe for at least for one ITF cycle if not for two there will not be major changes in this bit so it\u0027s actually worth the effort for the academics to actually do something there and I think that\u0027ll be very useful to get more people actively contributing here or not feeling too frustrated with the process the second thing that I would note already which is true for TLS is true here and here\u0027s even more so because a completely new security model is that a lot of the work we are doing is just trying to get the definitions in place trying to understand what the assumptions are on who is compromised who\u0027s not what what do we care what kind of privacy guarantees you want confidentiality Gant is one and it\u0027s been quite painful already for the basic protocol it will be more painful as we add more features so for now we are taking I think all of the groups are working on it are taking what the architecture state says go through the protocol as a starting point and we will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:58",
    "text": "try to formalize them as well as we can be can all debate what whether we\u0027re doing it right or not but let\u0027s assume that that\u0027s done so at least for the new features that are coming and anybody proposing a new a change to the protocol a new proposal we would like to have at least a minimal sort of process protocol where when you\u0027re proposing a new feature you should try to at least informally state what the security goal or the performance goal that this new feature is intended to solve why the previous one does design doesn\u0027t solve this why the new design solve this and importantly and gals asked me to put this in here why the new proposal does not break any of the other goals if you already have and this is something that we have to do as academics for sure but I think it also makes sense to have that you know up front as why the person proposing this change thinks this and I think if we can put major pull requests with these with these documents in them just text right it\u0027s just informally but we don\u0027t even understand them right now why certain changes happen I mean I have been quite involved so I might be able to help some people understand why you make certain changes but a lot of people don\u0027t understand why this happened why that happened I think it\u0027s nice to be explicit about these things that\u0027s all I have here yeah mam Thompson quick quick question for the working group I think based on Karthik\u0027s request here which I think at some point it\u0027s reasonable to have does the working group think that the protocol is sufficiently stable that having this sort of process is appropriate one of the things we found in quick recently was that we had to make the decision to move to a processes much more like this one in the sense you have to demonstrate that you have much stronger evidence for changes than than otherwise much much greater support and that does or can slow things down and so the question is does everyone think that this is appropriate is that is the protocol commence is sufficiently complete that moving to something a little more rigorous is is appropriate this is small clarification I\u0027m not I mean in presentations like this anyway we are going to discuss as whether people think it\u0027s a good idea or not that\u0027s I don\u0027t think I\u0027m asking for like it fully justification of no I don\u0027t think there\u0027s other things really the the problem here obviously you can you can ratchet this up even higher than what you\u0027re requesting and and I suspect it\u0027ll in a lot of cases people are making these arguments that you\u0027re talking about you\u0027re just asking them to be made a little clearer and more formally and I think that\u0027s that\u0027s original request but you you have to understand the costs okay we\u0027re well over so if anyone hasn\u0027t done the blue sheets please do it and this will be the last comment Richard yeah just a quick +1 here we\u0027ve also been feeling this pain in terms of interrupts testing like the evolution that causes pain there as well yeah which version you targeting either off so yeah and definitely I keen on having a bit more stability I think that the upcoming 0-5 version will naturally have a bunch of stuff that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:58",
    "text": "naturally coming to a stable point and so I think we should be able to do both this conversation about which things are ready for analysis in which ready for neural testing okay so the last point on the agenda was talking about the next interim so there is going to be a secure messaging workshop and yura crypt in mid-may and we\u0027ll be putting a poll on the list with respect to whether or not we want to have something before or after likely in Germany as well likely at the at the wire headquarters so we\u0027ll take this to list thanks everyone for for coming to MLS you can see them "
  }
]