[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:22",
    "text": "[Music] hello hello ah that this is TS vwg please come in please take a seat and we\u0027re going to be talking about transport area activities this booking grip we need a JavaScript yes please log in thank you and we need a note-taker please we have one can we have a second if possible thanks very much Teresa we should do this if we can have a second one just to help that would be good having one on blocks it but having two is nice it\u0027s a wonderful opportunity we will try and reward you in some way okay that wasn\u0027t a very good promise was it okay and we\u0027ll start the working group in just a minute [Music] [Music] yeah yeah go take a copper screen no that is yeah yeah I know I need to hit well that one is that one\u0027s got thee no no no it wants me that word don\u0027t want to be that way okay the question is where\u0027s Paige which one of these page down oops right right bingo whoa all right that\u0027s another reward different user interface thank you okay okay so we we\u0027ve got technical support for running a PowerPoint we have a note-taker Java scrub and two chairs are we ready [Music] [Laughter] we don\u0027t have sites from Bob Bob we don\u0027t aside from you um you do we don\u0027t and David can you find yeah we\u0027re trying to track multiple things I do say some part may be the right just to you know [Music] well that\u0027s newfangled email isn\u0027t slight put this yes I have signs I\u0027ll upload through the first part of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:25",
    "text": "agenda okay okay we start Candide we do hi I\u0027m going fast I\u0027m the first of these people listed on this slide the second working group chair is way Sadiq where\u0027s Eddie is in a different continent and will be joining us remotely as best he can and this is and I\u0027m David black a third person listed on this slide together were Ringmaster\u0027s of this three-ring circus better known as TS vwg welcome okay this is the standard IETF note well by participating in this in this meeting whether uh whether in person or or or remotely this applies to you okay we\u0027ve taken care of a note-taker and a scribe will be asking for reviewers for drafts as we go along there\u0027s a whole bunch of things CSV WG works on so we\u0027re always looking for people to take a look at drafts in general if you have a new draft that is intended for TAS vwg please ensure that th vwg turns up in the draft name in the usual position so that we know where so that we know to have a look um a note to the JavaScript says anything please make sure we get it quickly thank you okay all right following the previous slide dog collar block relies on reviews please review documents here and in in this working group and at least one and at least one other working group in general the IETF runs on reviews and review feedback so if you would like document you care about we reviewed please please review other documents and we will all all all benefit all right time for comes with the status I\u0027m afraid TC WG like a number of who know transports his bursty this is not one of those bursty times the preneur she\u0027s published since Montreal oops it should be three internet drafts in a uth forty-eight will fix that and and we and repost these slides this is what happens when you prepared shares slides based on combination jetlag and caffeine any case the FEC for the FEC framework drafts are in all 48 they\u0027re actively being discussed I we\u0027ve seen email and within the past day or so on these so those those are the three drafts they go together they\u0027ll be RFC\u0027s some time real very soon there\u0027s Vincent believes that\u0027s done so I I think we\u0027ll just see them very soon yeah I mean I think I yeah I think all the viewers are done the changes are done it\u0027s just a matter of RepRap route double-checking them and rounding up all the sign offs from all the authors we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:26",
    "text": "have one draft in the RFC editor queue that has been there for a long time but there\u0027s been development this is the diffserv and WebRTC QoS draft which for many many IETF was in this ref state it is now only in ref state because the missing reference apparently has shown up and the infamous web RTC cluster 238 is likely to get published sometime in the near future including this draft we have no IDs at iesg there are three IDs written group chairs and authors after working group by last call and just to prove that the world\u0027s not fair all three of them are mine as the responsible working group chair I\u0027ve talked to Bob Brisco who\u0027s the author the first two drafts on ecn and cap we know at a minimum what the text is that\u0027s needed in these drafts on fragmentation interaction we know how to write the text we minerally compatible with 3168 Bob thinks he\u0027d like to do better expect to see but before the next I II TF some better text and we will review the text on the mailing list before when we move these drafts for publication the other one is a transport header confidentiality impacts this draft was written glass called was actually called across three arrows R across posted to both into area and security folks and let\u0027s just simply say an interesting time was had by all draft is being revised the major goal of the vision is for the draft to take a more or less neutral stance on on transport protocol header encryption the post - o9 version is already head in that direction more to come stay tuned it will probably be a second working last call on this draft before the next ITF hi gory face just as a document editor for that draft we believe that we have material know that who can use to make a new revision shortly after this ITF are we spoken to several of people who contributed comments to get new text so I think this will go ahead yeah and I\u0027m cautiously out here here comes the other co-author hi common Perkins I\u0027m the other author of that draft yeah just to be clear I mean you say to be revised to have a neutral point of view that was always the intent and we clearly missed but that\u0027s what we were aiming for yeah and I\u0027m speaking for myself as that sure yes I\u0027ve understood that\u0027s always been the intent not quite realize the first time around the next the the next version to be posted will be considered will will be considerably better in that regard and we\u0027ll run a second last a second last call on it hi Tommy Polly Apple um "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:29",
    "text": "so just to the point of this I spoke a bit to the authors but also I had noted in your email about him wanting to be neutral just want to kind of clarify what we mean by neutral here because I think we we don\u0027t want to necessarily set it up as an opposition between should we encrypt headers or not but it\u0027s really where do we draw the boundaries and what are the consequences of it so maybe even just phrasing is let\u0027s be objective about when you make this choice this is the effect and it\u0027s not saying we are necessarily being neutral between being Pro and anti because I think for a lot of community as we are looking into quick there is definitely a pro to do this encryption we just need to understand the consequences of it right and this this draft is primarily aimed at describing the design consequences of transport headers mostly from a within the net Network point of view so that it\u0027s somebody considered in doing the design it\u0027s it was it\u0027s not supposed to be advocating in one direction or the other but rather providing design considerations so that an intelligent considered choice can be made yeah I guess I would just encourage that as we are rewriting the reworking at the tone of the text that we shouldn\u0027t necessarily shy away from saying there are positive reasons and good things that we get from this encryption that benefit the development of transfer protocols and being honestly enthusiastic about that as we are also pointing out the qualifications Tommy what\u0027s that oh what\u0027s that a offer to have a quick look at the test we believe will do that yes so if we have early versions I would be happy to review anything yes and because I mean to be clear I think we we are not we\u0027re certainly not saying don\u0027t do encryption we\u0027re big fans of encryption we just realized that there are other thing you that there are sometimes reasons to consider doing other things absolutely I think we all agree on it\u0027s just like how do we communicate outside of this community where we do understand what we\u0027re saying the right tones such that they don\u0027t misunderstand us sure I Brian Graham was sort of the same same comment slightly different angle of it uh I somebody\u0027s been you know involved in this discussion in this forum for a little while spend some time on it I think that that this document is going to need much more wordsmithing than maybe other documents that come out of TS BWT in the past simply because a lot of people are being kind of I don\u0027t want to I want to say emotional about it but there is a lot of people who are picking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:29",
    "text": "things apart maybe not assuming best intentions here so I will also offer to you know go through the language of this document with a fine-tooth comb and find ways where you know maybe there are opportunities for misinterpretation that can be we can be available in the next couple of weeks to do that yeah yeah yeah let\u0027s talk offline but I can I can make that happen next week yes okay good all right so with luck that we\u0027re moving forward okay we have no IDs in working group last call no draft call we\u0027re likely to start working group last call on to draft soon sgtp net and Datagram pl Datagram imp you discover E that\u0027s Datagram PLP MTU D is the long acronym we spell out a few pieces of it as for the Alpha rest rest we will discuss the next steps for the l4 s drafts on Thursday not today we have enough fun today thank you okay there are seven additional working group drafts listed here in various states are we listed the L fresh drafts here just because I could I\u0027m not going to read off the whole list bunch of related drafts over in six men there is a PM tu d draft for v6 in int area there is an individual draft right now from Ron Bonica on lossless PMT UD which in which also includes a a new I a new ICMP message there is an l4 s and diffserv draft that\u0027s been around for a while not much happening lately loops there will be a side meeting on loops tomorrow morning 8:30 a.m. focused on scope encapsulation details I\u0027ve listed the main loops draft if you put loops into the data tracker and search for drafts you\u0027ll find that there\u0027s there\u0027s two more all three are part of that means morrow morning transfer early drafts whole bunch of them SFC continues to work on ec n for n sh the reason this one\u0027s interesting is not so much for ECM which is stuff we work on but because it relates the tongue josh and feedback draft that is working group draft there is the low latency DOCSIS draft that\u0027s been submitted the independent submission editor and likely to be published via that route to SCE really queueing drafts that aren\u0027t directly on the agenda but I related to stuff that we\u0027ll discuss on Thursday there will be an exploratory side meaning tomorrow morning again some VIP a on our digestion control which will include at least the following three drafts a list of listed there unfortunately I see crg ran out of time so the third draft down there was not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:32",
    "text": "talked about all in IC crg this morning we have a draft later today on exposed bits here\u0027s an appears expose lost bits draft that was presented last time around the interior tunnel staff continues to move forward in the interior working group along with the fragmentation fragility draft and there is a Sox protocol revision in progress that draft may or may not be coming this working group I\u0027m not sure a couple of SCTP drafts in addition to what you\u0027ll see here there\u0027s a multipath draft and then there\u0027s a draft on retransmission details there have been a couple of contributions to 3gpp one on l4s and one one that was more general those are from the 3gpp have fun have fun with this follow up okay ts vwg agenda so you got to see this is somebody the agenda we\u0027ve done documents called accomplishments and status about you milestone review and there\u0027ll be a bunch of drafts Friday a bunch more drafts G wasn\u0027t interesting okay milestone review 1st to February 2019 milestones are for the encapsulation drafts those have been delayed Bob do you think we can get those done for January or is that you out okay Bob thanks again dumb January I made a good guess l4s drafts will pick that back up again on Thursday I don\u0027t care to try try to try it can\u0027t really figure out when they\u0027re going to be ready to be submitted until we have the the discussion on Thursday SCTP nat support obviously didn\u0027t happen in July February sound reasonable um yes because the plan is to start that soon knows you\u0027ll discover yes ok the P OPM tud draft and transfer here confidentiality drafts these I\u0027m hoping we\u0027ll get done early above the time being we\u0027re gonna shove the dates out to April 22 April of next year to allow for another IETF meetings cycle the SCTP Biss draft sure about two meeting cycles of September and the next two dates April 4 Tong session feedback and UV transport options we\u0027ll deal with these at the next meeting edition I\u0027m gonna pencil in a June 2020 a time frame for the nqb draft for now after thank you be is discussed we might have a better idea today alright finally we get to the agenda swing bash it item items 1 \u0026 2 we\u0027ve pretty much already done document status etc agenda we\u0027re in the middle of agenda bashing and the socks update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:32",
    "text": "would basically gave which is that that the socks draft me may move his working group for the from the moment it still burns interior name so of your transport person interested in socks please comment on that list so please use the list to keep that draft progressing okay yesterday we\u0027re gonna have a co develpment hackathon update covering TCP Prague l4 s and SCS one side of topics in addition there\u0027s been some work on Datagram PLP MTU d4 for SCTP three SCTP drafts and then the Datagram PLP MTU d draft oops right there we go and then we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna finish today with three three new work graphs NQ b which is the diffserv pv for non queue building traffic that\u0027s the traffic dropped at the last meeting there\u0027s going to be a presentation on DC cpp multipath that complements the presentation in IC c RG this morning and we\u0027ll have a final draft on endpoint congestion rolled guide endpoint congestion control guidelines accepting the thursday want to start with yet another around the UDP options draft and then a session on l4 s both an updating the drafts and discussion of the issues in the tracker the two principal SCE drafts mostly focused on the first one we put both on the agenda here because these two need to be understood together to to understand how SCE all the pieces SCE work together and then ended agenda on thursday where we have another round of the QC i and of and diffserv draft we have what\u0027s the spindle a bits which is this this is this is the alternates this is one of the drafting in the alternative approaches to transfer header encryption which is go ahead and clip the headers and then expose selectively expose some limited information that might be useful in the clear in the network and then a presentation follows on from prior presentation i think about a year ago on a a intermediate resource reservation protocol this is how to apply that to diffserv and they have some results okay i believe that\u0027s it any comments or revisions desired on the agenda all right can the agenda bashed and next up we need to go do a hackathon let\u0027s see so what the fist one will take will be Bob and we\u0027ll also have a remote participant for the PLP and tu so yeah we need to work out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:38",
    "text": "how to do this you need to open a new window somehow yeah and press update press refresh then it just appears excellent you can start talking Bobby what count against your time you can do yeah if you if you can\u0027t yeah right okay I was asked to spit out the update on TCP prog to this session and have l4s more generally in on Thursday so we found it yet there we go okay so the acknowledgement list here is too long to put on the first slide because it\u0027s like now a large number of companies and people and everything the next a quick recap the motivation for TCP Prague and Prague congestion controls generally and the l4s architecture even more generally is ultra-low queuing delay and the next slide will say what that means for all Internet applications including capacity seeking ones and the rest of the al parecer architectures about transmit transition mechanisms to that such as the dual QA q m and per flow queuing and the trick for doing outflow queuing delay this is just a very brief recap is to have much smaller sawteeth so that you can have both low queuing delay and higher utilization as shown in that picture there but that creates a lot more congestion events that\u0027s why you have to have the transitions next sorry slightly off the top there actual are queuing delay is at the order of one millisecond and with 99 percentile around one millisecond and here we show five nines percentiles still at eight milliseconds compared to others under a very heavy traffic load this is a copy slide should your Jeff speck and the good news is the whole the whole slice is displaying on the screen is the audience it\u0027s just been cut off cut out for you for your convenience right okay so the this slide gives the structure of the rest of the talk it\u0027s all about the requirements on the right that are in the draft ACN l4s ID at the bottom left there and they are for congestion controls that are called scaleable and what you have to do to in or in order to be able to send an l4s packet with the alpha race identifier which is East e1 and they\u0027re derived "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:42",
    "text": "from a meeting that actually was held in 2015 in Prague which is why all these protocols have the name Prague in them [Music] where a bunch of people got together and set those those requirements down that remain pretty much the same as they\u0027ve gone into Internet drafts and they\u0027re not just for TCP but I\u0027m gonna talk just about the TCP reference implementation mostly in this talk and that\u0027s that slide so I\u0027m going to use them as you see on the left as I go down and which I did well I didn\u0027t go down them in the previous slide this is a copy of a slide from July and just gonna sort of give you a delta on the next slide to show colors changing so watch now alright go back watch now right okay if you weren\u0027t watching I\u0027m not going to do it again you\u0027ll see essentially we\u0027ve been focusing on the yellow and orange bits and red bits are now all green and but they\u0027re only light green the three in the middle which the legend is along the top and that means research has been done and it\u0027s open so you know this is meant to be the ietf it\u0027s not made to be research but TCP Prague is more in the research end of things so this is why this is just a status update and I\u0027m now gonna go through a number of those rows the first one was already green but it\u0027s now about to be up streamed that\u0027s what you hope oh who\u0027s just been contracted in to work on that to upstream into the linux mainline at the hackathon he structured the whole thing into a sequence set of patches so that um we can start to do that or prepare at least for up streaming for Linux stack which is just just a quick thank you to elbow he started work on this on Saturday at the hackathon having offended his PhD on Thursday and sort of got a job now on this so um he was both getting his head around the code and starting to work on it then by the way his PhD wasn\u0027t on this subject but it was related the next one which was the one that was completely read before in the in the table and is now a green or light green at least to the the big issue issue number 16 in the issues list of whether there are any classic ECM bottlenecks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:42",
    "text": "and if there are how does TCP Prague fall back to Reno friendly behavior so we\u0027re focused on a solution to this problem but there is also the question of prevalence the problem the two subheadings on the slide we\u0027re focused on the solution because it has been pointed out that even if the problems not prevalent it could you know the standards are there so someone could deploy something later personally I think it\u0027s unlikely after 20 19 years you know so but let\u0027s move on so I published a discussion paper on a design to do this with pseudocode in it analysis rationale and I said who\u0027s also just been hired in to work on this has now implemented it and started testing work on it and I\u0027ve asked him if he can also make his code available so that other people can test it once his feels it\u0027s stable enough which should be today maybe he was working on that at the hackathon as well well he\u0027d written the code a couple of weeks ago he\u0027s been working on setting up evaluation so it the question of the prevalence of the problem going back to this slide in the insert from Apple they found 30% of devices in Argentina were seeing seee doesn\u0027t necessarily mean it\u0027s single cue causing that but we did dig into that based on a clue from Apple and got in touch with the ice P and they found they were doing I overwriting the tossed byte with zeros sorry with with hex at 17 or something which was causing the ce2 which is why that was a problem and we\u0027re still not sure whether it\u0027s whether any of the other is single q 3168 in the new BB r v2 code there\u0027s an L for SVC inside to that there is Artie T dependence which is one of the other rows in the table and we\u0027ve been testing various combinations of that against various congestion controls make UN\u0027s during the hackathon and more testing and then possibly design iteration is needed scaling down to a fraction window was one of the ones in there and I\u0027m going to talk about that first day morning it\u0027s been done it\u0027s got it working it\u0027s in the Linux not in Berlin it\u0027s kinda it\u0027s been coded into it\u0027s currently research code so there\u0027ll be a session Thursday morning before the next es VG that will include something on that and here\u0027s the slide that says what those sessions are so before the TS vwg meeting on Thursday which is at 9:45 we\u0027ve got a side meeting in the same room at 8:30 to go over tcp prog status "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:46",
    "text": "update and i\u0027ve posted to the TSV list and other lists ICC rjt CPM we below the coordinates to get there and the agenda or provisional agenda and then we\u0027ll also continue talking about FRS in the second slot as they was pointed out and there\u0027s some all the links to all that is on the URL again I want I want Aaron\u0027s cracker finished presentation do we Julius whoops it was bizarre can\u0027t try forward there [Music] all right which slides a question so um being during more participant online to do their update on coding for PL PM tud then we come back to that because we should be remote presentation um okay I know that the SE folks were participating a hackathon is anyone from the SCE team want to give us an interesting update on what on almost happened so far Jonathan sure I didn\u0027t prepare any slides specifically for this but hopefully that said real-time update is probably a feature well I think there are two main things that we achieved at the hackathon one of them was some work on interoperability with a key CN just to make sure that when an SCE endpoint and an a key CN supporting endpoint talked to each other that something sensible happens and I think we were able to achieve something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:46",
    "text": "useful with that with the help of Richard Jeff Niger [Music] the other interesting wing thing we did was some investigation on what happens when you have a bursty link and variations in latency on the shorter time scales and we found that these can have quite a big effect on high fidelity congestion control in general due to the a very short effective queue depth when used with a red type or a threshold type marking 6-game but we also had some success with trying out a new marking scheme for the SCE feedback based on the kata algorithm so we have a new version of a of a QM that\u0027s actually using two instances of code or one for C II marking and one for SCE marking was just slightly different parameters and that\u0027s proved to give quite a considerably better throughput in the bursty environment and it still seemed to perform well in the ordinary environment there\u0027s still more work to be done on evaluating how well that works and tuning the parameters but it looks very promising okay thank you this one this yeah it should be that one so hi I\u0027m Michael took son or not as the case may be but and pretty close to Michael this is the update on the SCTP based draft them the plan is to publish a best to RSC 496 oh and I shall iterate again that this is intending to revise the spec to make it clearer implement the errata which we\u0027ve identified and then the intention will be just sound out the possibility of progressing this to full standard so this is an important document in this respect and it becomes easier to read each time it\u0027s edited "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:46",
    "text": "document history is we\u0027re in the process at at the moment of going past editorial fixes it\u0027s the cleaner of musts and shirts and the original document was written with lowercase must meaning must and uppercase most meaning must but we\u0027re going to go through and just check that that is actually correct because um the idea has got a little bit more pedantic on this and I think this is a good thing to do to make sure that the shoulds and musts are called out correctly so that\u0027s what they\u0027re currently doing working progress handling of multiple remote addresses in the associate primitive and there is a draft the text to go and github there\u0027s some more editorial issues to be done maybe some layout improvements and the good news is if I put my chair hat on now is that usually one sin one SCTP piece of work is done they quickly move on to the next piece and this is the next piece of work to be completed and they expect to complete this before Vancouver anybody got any questions on the bits draft we already have offers to review but it\u0027s becoming increasingly interesting to find good reviewers for this document or any reviewers in fact to get feedback on how good that document is he is revolving as we head towards the inevitable end of trying to publish it thank you is that an end for me with a nice pink let\u0027s see the next one not support aha um in this case I\u0027m telling you and we figure out how to use a Chromebook Michael tuckson again and although I have no different sets of co-authors Michael\u0027s co-authors are Randall and Irene and this is a document that\u0027s been with our working group for far too long in fact it\u0027s been with the so long that it came from another working group called behave which closed a long long time ago it\u0027s about adding that nut support to SCTP um ipv4 net support was missing in SCTP it\u0027s the last of our ITF transports that doesn\u0027t actually have a spec defining it this document tries to do that the statuses were currently at draft 15 there are comments from a person called gory fairest on draft 14 going through this trying to separate out mainly what it means to implement SCT peanut support as somebody building a box for system redoing an sctp implementation this draft covers both we have comments from Max Maxim and these comments have been addressed we believe this document is for working group last call as in the authors believe this and the chairs are willing to believe this but there\u0027s one extra thing that\u0027s cropped up so and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:47",
    "text": "before we take that working group last call discussion and we should have a look at the yang model for this let\u0027s see if we can find it let\u0027s even find the yang Yang slide here I don\u0027t know what happened here see all right hang on we\u0027ll go get off of this you\u0027re looking for yes we have young slides here we go and it should do it yeah I think so this is part of the net draft okay proposed part of an air draft so I\u0027m going to go through these and heads up please if you look at these slides I\u0027m do you think we should add a young model to the nut draft after we\u0027ve don\u0027t gone through these sights I\u0027d like to take questions about the young model or any interest in this and then finally we\u0027re going to ask if we can complete a consensus column whether the document is ready for working group last cold publication but first of all let\u0027s look at the nut document with young and we could add some nut related considerations and including the young model to this document this is within the scope of what we were allowed to do how much effort would be involved and there are a couple of things that we have to do we have to describe the in tag be tightly XV tag and this doesn\u0027t sound hugely difficult and we could express this in yang and the module might look something like this the person who wrote the site say this is straightforward and here I confess I do not know whether this is straightforward are not straightforward so we are looking for some expertise in this working group who would understand the yang model or somebody to volunteer to read this as chairs that would be really helpful we do have it yang mid doctors equivalent I mean we can get expert advice on this but we need a working group advice on this first should we should we go ahead with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:51",
    "text": "the model looks like this and integrate this into the NAP support document and the suggestion by the person to volunteer this slide deck is it\u0027s it\u0027s easy just to add this to the young model and that\u0027s better than creating a separate model to describe something which is kind of like only this long um any objections any thoughts anybody able to understand what this is how do you know wish to come to the mic I\u0027ll admit understanding some of this the most important statement on the screen is just short a half way down where the magic word is augment which means as opposed to describing a new model yang Yang has a very nice ability to just go add a few things that perhaps shouldn\u0027t put in the first time but weren\u0027t and so this this really is all the yang is blissfully short can anybody come to the mic and say something sorry for looking at through the code of Maya J holin I\u0027ve done a little bit with yang but I\u0027m less familiar with SCTP what are the V tags int and X I\u0027m not sure the what are the v-tex sorry the v-tach or the yeah there\u0027s there\u0027s two Leafs here the envy tag and the XP tag and is there some meaning for this besides internal verification tag I don\u0027t know it\u0027s it\u0027s how I\u0027m se TPD multi muxes flows so it\u0027s tied in with the nut state but I think if anybody is willing to just say hey I don\u0027t understand a couple lines of this it will be useful to talk to them to Michael on the person who proposed it to see whether kind of at least we\u0027re heading in a direction that\u0027s useful we can close this without doing this or we can add this I guess I have no strong opinion if you\u0027re asking for does the light yang look sane at all I have no objection if there\u0027s some understanding of what these things mean - various knits like the space or whatever right but but the reason I\u0027m not volunteering is because I don\u0027t know what we\u0027re doing with this yeah so hi Frank Trammell let me rephrase the question Jake before you sit all the way down I think the question is is the description internal verification tag and external verification tag enough for somebody who understands setp enough to be messing with the NAT state on an sctp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:52",
    "text": "NAT box to understand what that means and I think so if you if you\u0027re managing right like so this is the additional state that you need because of the way that that flow mocks and de-mux works in SCDP I had actually forgotten that this was called of V tag and told just now is like Vita oh yeah that\u0027s the thing right so I think it\u0027s fine do we want to just put it in this document as opposed to another document yeah sure yes seems perfectly reasonable is this yang saying other than the VTEC thing I have no idea I don\u0027t read yang that\u0027s okay we have SCTP experts we can get young experts I\u0027m asking the working group please talk for not about mark sir is there an assumption that somehow writing these drafts will actually make SCTP work with Nats right but with the nuts that wish to do this there is there is turn Annie what there are some yeah yeah yeah yeah right there are working SCTP nuts out there that do this they\u0027re maybe not in people\u0027s home but this is fine it\u0027s like saying they\u0027re magic rapid7 yeah maybe assuming there are magic rabbit we would like to configure them with yang because this is the ietf so exactly yeah this isn\u0027t this isn\u0027t the thing up for debate we want to get this thing out of this working group do we know what we\u0027re doing David it sounds like it\u0027s moving forward we shall sounds like we\u0027ve got a few people we can quit check with to make sure the SCTP contents are okay and it sound and it looks like they probably are and after that a trip to them a trip to the yang doctors one of whom will be very very happy gets something this short to look at and we might have something useful okay so my final question this time but the chair hut on is is the SCTP not draft ready for publication meta solving whether we include this is the anybody here who thinks there is additional work that needs to be done to finish that draft all right I think having seen seeing no hands raised in the room I think we\u0027re just gonna go ahead and move forward we need we should get this one done and check it off Nagesh your slides up let\u0027s see if we can do that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:55",
    "text": "all right I don\u0027t see any gaseous slides hang on let\u0027s see did you see what I wanted and then takes it right off the screen well in the website wonderful no we know we don\u0027t seem to have gotten slides from Nagesh let\u0027s see is he yes he is on is on line what happens I push the red button I\u0027ll give that a shot push the red button enough what a useful red button so if me techo is monitoring this the chairs are completely lost about how to make any of the remote presentations happen we will come back to them when we can [Music] whoa jabbers grab me equipment are you guys on jabber sure remote propresenter nice mute himself I wonder which one we\u0027ve got hello we got somebody let\u0027s meet you yeah okay on your mind the game your mic is set too high you\u0027re clipping very badly now this is Julian\u0027s presenter for which one of these drafts okay ah back to the setp deal okay go ahead this this is going to 3.2 we\u0027re going back to let me go get that up yes that\u0027s much better thank you all right me a minute we\u0027ll get the slide set up in the room and then okay go ahead with lucky an adventure on slides if not ask us and we\u0027ll move them thank you okay so this is a short overview over the work we\u0027ve been doing for the last couple of weeks on the implementation of the TPL p.m. Tod algorithm for SCTP oh no it\u0027s the wrong slide isn\u0027t it sorry sorry thought that was red ones because I\u0027m not going fast [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:01",
    "text": "should be okay and that\u0027s what I get it looks like we\u0027ve got the wrong set of slides associated with with meeting materials hang on we\u0027re looking for your slides okay if you can plug if you can plug an HDMI into yours that might be the fastest way you get to get get it get a projector as opposed to high tech stuff return to a hardware solution just a minute I\u0027m pretty sure that\u0027s going to be HDMI connector yeah I don\u0027t have a all right we\u0027re gonna get went up load the slides I hope that happens quickly full of vision you okay now that\u0027s worked correctly be those two there okay we might have managed to move move the bits into the right place that looks better okay sorry about that okay and okay here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:08",
    "text": "we go my person\u0027s name underlined this time yes great thank you so much okay so as I said this is a short review of the work I\u0027ve been doing for the last couple weeks on the implementation of DPL PMT UT for SCTP next slide please so as a short recap this is an overview of the state machine of the DPL PMT UT algorithm in the current - on nine draft version and as a short reminder so the the TPL PMT algorithm built with finding the right MTU of a path so the factorization layer knows how to make the packet it sense next slide please and so what we have done is on what we\u0027re doing is we are implementing this for HTTP for a code base that is shared between the free PD FreeBSD kernel and a user space SCTP implementation called user SCTP and the implementation is used in most web RTC implementations including Firefox and Chrome it supports a CTP over ipv4 and ipv6 and also a CTP over ut2 UDP and Achillas currently our focus is on ipv4 ipv6 we haven\u0027t tested it ing TLS part yet next slide please so where we started is about one and a half years ago Dana vanilla the first the initial implementation of DP OPM tud for SCTP and basically all of the sterilization work that has been done so far is based on her implementation so her work is very only on this so it hadn\u0027t been up streamed and next slide please what we do basically is we take her changes from back then and merge this to a current version of the FreeBSD kernel and we\u0027re getting it working there and so what we also do is we then update her her work to the latest - online draft version and we\u0027re still checking updates to the draft and along the way we have fixed some box next slide please so these are some some considerations for implementers who want to implement the algorithm for their own transport protocols own transport implementations so we\u0027ve seen that the semantics of MTU changes are different for PL p.m. PUD because in PMT ug the MTU of a pass can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:09",
    "text": "only shrink while in PL p.m. PUD it can also grow this might make some some things slightly different um changes the semantics of of some functions a bit and also you should note that the in the probes in DP LP mu T our congestion control and not read control so they should not trigger a congestion control response when they are lost I\u0027d also want one thing we\u0027re currently seeing in our implementation is that if we see a MTU path and do you change the frequency with which we see our TT updates decreases but this is most likely just in the implementation but we still have to figure out next like this so this also makes me to do what we still have to do it\u0027s only once I\u0027d figure out what is wrong with this back and also we still have to fix some real names to be fully draft compliant and also we still have the test with ipv6 and again the because we only have tested with ipv4 so far and we have to make sure that everything works well with all platforms that are supported by a user HTTP and we are still and we\u0027re also thinking about a way to do automated MTU testing in order to faciliate tests for DTLS and UDP okay thank you okay thank you very much I think we\u0027re going to quickly bash the agenda and go straight from here to the main peel a datum and peel PMT you Deidre draft to try to avoid induce you too much whiplash we\u0027ll pick up the third SCTP draft after this now let\u0027s even get the slides up that we came up last time yeah that would be these wouldn\u0027t it okay right time I am Corey Ferris being gory Ferris nothing editor of this document this is dead grand packetization layer path MTU discovery it should be a presentation of 0 9 that\u0027s the document that we as editors have I\u0027m an idiot I don\u0027t know how to make XML to RFC work with ref 3 so I couldn\u0027t post it sorry didn\u0027t know how to put the SVG files and so there\u0027s something just a little bit coming along in a moment and but DPL PM tud version 8 which is reacting the working group for a while is a complete document next slide we moved to xml v3 with SVG diagrams because our ad thought it was an interesting experiment for us thanks ad this is testing the ID submission process because it doesn\u0027t work for me anyway and if you 0 8 we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:09",
    "text": "started the experiment then the table of contents is rendered as two lines for each line so it all looks terrible that\u0027s not our fault there\u0027s a good HTML somewhere if you follow the link here if you\u0027re not in HTML and everything\u0027s okay the diagrams are okay the ASCII hearts okay and it hasn\u0027t changed a lot so let\u0027s talk about what the diagram looks like the core diagram looks like this this was redrawn again in 0-8 without changing the spec to make this clear we hope and simple we hope because actually the core of this mechanism is quite simple basically you enable PL PMT UD by moving out of the disabled state by knowing you have connectivity and doing initial probe you then reach a base MTU you check that works you then try and search to increase your MTU sending a number of probes each time a probe succeeds you increase the path MTU if you if the probe succeeds and then subsequently fails for a larger size you carry for a certain number of attempts to send other probe packets these probe packets may be the same size larger which would be foolish or smaller which might be smart but there you send a certain number of probes if you don\u0027t get response to anything bigger than the last one that worked you give up the original version of the algorithm suggested a value of 10 for the number of probes you send after you\u0027ve found a new value and then one that failed we think that a value of 3 is probably more conservative as a recommended number the document does not define this search algorithm my personal opinion is any algorithms probably okay except for the stupid one of trying to increase by 1 byte every packet which I hope no one is even so stupid as to try and think will be useful jumping to large sizes is probably very smart because and in the Internet as a whole people have deployed infrastructure which has certain limits or use certain tunnels so you can more or less guess good values to increase too if all things go wrong you return to the base are you start from a bottom thing a bottom path end to you which you know should work are you trying to increase again if really it\u0027s seriously wrong because the base doesn\u0027t work you moved to era the document does not define what you do in era it makes suggestions you could try and keep the link open you mainly could try enabling fragmentation in v4 you could try this stuff but this is below what you said should work if you work a team implement era has just give up that\u0027s also allowed so IRAs kind of this unknown state where you could be really smart and ply lots of heuristics but we don\u0027t really say the simple algorithm is quite simple periodically when everything\u0027s working normally you\u0027ve been a such complete state and after a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:09",
    "text": "period of time which is minutes you go back to the searching state and send a probe message to continue your search if you are totally clueless about what your transport is doing like your a tunnel or maybe just a UDP based transport with no connection state so you don\u0027t know what\u0027s going on at that point you should also check that the current path is supporting the current path MTU that you\u0027ve discovered all of this is written in the spec what\u0027s changed recently we added this connectivity section that has to precede everything to each packetization layer in the description this made it slightly more modular to describe a new packetization layer we added text that we thought was obvious but we thought we should really add which ISM you have to tell the path MTU cash in your host your node at your equipment to not use the cash value when you\u0027re sending a probe and also to not use that cash when it receives path to big packet to path to pack it to big messages for your path I can never do that because if you let PMT UD control what\u0027s going on you get the wrong result so you have to tell the network layer to disable this for this particular flow and Julius who we saw online has been implemented this in SCTP and has been telling us where we where he found things which were rather confusing fortunately this was near Manley text and we fix this in 0-8 and some final fixes in zero 9 this relates to a number of documents which is why I\u0027m going to motivate in a moment that we should working grid last call the next version M it\u0027s an update for 8 to 1 which was mainly focused on TCP this focus is not on TCP it focuses on things that aren\u0027t TCP interior fragile and is a document aiming at BCP now in RFC id2q which says you should do this where you can in your protocol to enable us to work without requiring fragmentation in the network layer therefore this little document is held up waiting for us to complete her work here and the quick transport is not held up because he\u0027s not yet ready for publication it will be ready soon guys yes and it refers to this so we should do it for a quick transport UDP options is our own working group item here that also defines it and there\u0027s a draft that Tom and I have co-authored which defines little pieces that go with UDP options to add that to UDP options in the future when your new DP options is finished and of course SCTP is implementing this at least in one user space and kernel implementation and hopefully setp will follow this for other implementations setp defines something like this from the beginning it just didn\u0027t have the details which are in this particular spec so several documents refer to this or will refer to this very soon we have some implementations just because I know Devi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:10",
    "text": "is going to have to write this up in the future if we go for a last call there\u0027s FreeBSD there is some rebn ESD work with UDP options and there\u0027s partial implementations with quick and we b\u0027keen to work with other people to try and make more quick implementations do this please talk to us and there\u0027s been three custom implementations along the pathway to get here not of which have been upstream we had early reviews from last Thank You Lars wherever you are yeah he spotted some shoulds that should be must and must it should have been shuts and all the good things that we should do so we will fix these in version 9 they\u0027re in the Attic 2q once we learn to use XML to RSC revision3 we will publish those and I think from the author\u0027s point of view we\u0027ve had our initial review all the people are referring to this we think the works done so we\u0027d like to suggest this is ready for a working group last call all right think of that as a Christmas present don\u0027t know whether it\u0027s gonna be early or late though and it is UTP chairs here what kind of skid so nice not CTV either quick chairs here and somebody or somebody who knows what schedule the quick transport draft is likely to be on somebody must be brave enough to talk to that one no we can go talk okay okay we got somebody yeah it\u0027s an easy quick question mark so I we haven\u0027t talked about this interim in Cupertino there\u0027s a hope of week working group last call soon ish which I\u0027d say maybe Vancouver maybe even earlier but there\u0027s there\u0027s a strong expectation that will not be the real us call that that in fact there will be a lot of comments and then we\u0027ll requires from rework inevitably so yes so so we anticipate better way to say it thank you Brian so there\u0027s going to be more than one working group flask almost certainly however the first one is is probably in the next quarter or so okay that\u0027s helpful because I don\u0027t think we\u0027re quite as optimistic about the UDP options draft which is why the UDP options material for a DLP MPT UD you know what whatever that Crenn is I could apply one of these one of these times what why the options work for Datagram path MTU discovery has been separated into a separate draft that way we can last call this one and publish it without having it wait for the main UDP option strap there\u0027s a set that covers the use of UDP options for for this purpose and presumably this whole when did this all then gets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:10",
    "text": "referenced from the SCTP piss draft yeah and and I suspect the text for quick is going to be the correct text for quick because the stuff in this document is fairly generic in transport and I think it\u0027s stable but this is why we would like to coordinate the wicking route last call with quick the details of that are in creek itself because that\u0027s where it belongs so I hope there\u0027s no real dependency either way but we want to align these two to make sure that they really publish together yeah I have I have trouble believing that anything will change at this point is gonna have any impact on an MP Dietl thank you that was useful okay David and that\u0027s it do you want to ask any other questions to the work new part kind of sit down I think you can sit down well we will probably expect a little last call on the strap in your future you want to get some reviewers I [Music] cannot I\u0027ll last does anybody wish to review this and could raise their hand because it would help us with the process Martin oh yeah if it see what it\u0027ll they might have both volunteered but they did anybody else wish to review this of course this will be a review where we\u0027re looking for comments for anybody in the working group we think this is a useful thing to do please read it it\u0027s we accept comments on saying on any part of the document even readability so please read the document thank you okay so I\u0027m gonna know Martin Duke and Ian sweat is having volunteered to review so we\u0027ll get least to work best core reviews thank you thank you very much both here okay now let\u0027s see we\u0027re gonna have to go hang on push that button go back here alright so I don\u0027t believe we have slides for this this next item we saw I\u0027m gonna put up the piece of the agenda this is 4.4 apparently let\u0027s see Nagesh you\u0027re on I\u0027m gonna push the red button and maybe you can say a little bit about the 4895 dis draft anybody out there okay sorry let me push the red button one more time just in case anybody out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:15",
    "text": "there all right well we will try to pick this up on Thursday and maybe we\u0027ll have slides there and also let me quick quickly apologize it looks like a spell checker got your last name that will be fixed okay so next up is nqb yeah well says he to the queue all right from problems I can\u0027t I can\u0027t see the queue on my on my screen here for some on the screen here some reason all right let\u0027s get the nqb slides up here it\u0027s one of these tabs which one do we put it in those right on cue all right okay Nagesh we will pick you up after Greggy son speaking in QB since we\u0027ve gone to all work to get his slides up thank you Greg white in CableLabs presenting update on the nqb PHP draft on behalf of also my co-author Thomas facility from our next slide sort of small font but this is light I present one update of a slide I presented last time the goal of the nqb PHP is to enable low latency and low loss for sparse traffic flows and the idea is to define a code point that describes verifiable behavior so it\u0027s not a value judgments not saying that these flows are or higher priority then in both data flows or or actually have a little latency or little loss sensitive these two lates your loss truly is about the behavior of the application is a sparse is it able to coexist with other sparse closed it not cause latency when it does so so the idea is that there is no incentive to miss mark Backus both the fact that it\u0027s you cannot indicating the desire for priorities intended to be verifiable behavior that network can can examine and and act on if it sees behavior that\u0027s inconsistent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:15",
    "text": "with the label of non key building so the applicability of this that the main driving use case really is in the l4s scenario or you have two cues one for the l4s flows new congestion control flows and that can you know as Bob discussed earlier provide altra low-latency for congestion controlled applications didn\u0027t identify flows that are not congestion control that could coexist with those l4s flows and then also potentially for links that have the ability to optimize access to the channel for for sparse traffic a couple of examples of use cases their cable broadband links so we\u0027re intending to support this PHP in what we call Lillian t DOCSIS in the near future seen this back currently and and products are being built that\u0027s back currently and expect to see that rolling out around the world in the next year or so also LTE and 5g links there\u0027s my co-authors representing GSM a side of this and bringing in use cases there and an interest in supporting this PHP as well on on LTE and Phi G links in terms of application use cases they\u0027re generally sparse flows of any type really could label their their packets is nqb the main ones that that are driving the development of this are the ones that that users care about having low latency low loss in particular and focus more on the residential and then user environments rather than enterprise Varmus so gaming both the traditional multiplayer online games as well as the cloud gaming applications mainly for the uplink side of that which is low data rate traffic on the upstream and also voice over IP and voice chat kind of so status here is I presented this the last GSP working group meeting last ITF and I was adopted after that meeting immediately after adoption one of the chairs requested that some edits be made prior to uploading it as working group draft there were four items there I think we can move on so continuing the status there were additionally some mailing list comments about the individual draft around the adoption and then shortly after he had made option in particular a couple of kind of structural comments on the drafted that it the individual draft wasn\u0027t really written like a PHP definition it was written more as a motivation for a PHP and included a section on comparison to other approaches also those comment that the suggested district code point of 2a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:17",
    "text": "would likely get bleached at ISP ingress and a suggestion for another code point that might survive the response to that was maybe that\u0027s actually a feature or not a bug and ISPs that have the ability to support the PSB in their network and provide that service to their customers and can actively disable bleaching for that code point and and get the benefit and those that don\u0027t have such a an ability in their network maybe it\u0027s okay they they bleach it you know there\u0027s also some concern some is probably an understatement concern about the interoperability with Wi-Fi both on the enterprise side and residential I\u0027ve got a slide later on that gets into that so finally understand us up uploaded the initial working group draft just at the deadline for this meeting included those four items that the Dave black had requested as well as restructuring the draft to be more in line with PHP draft expectations next [Music] so increment of what the PHP is requirements that are in the draft or or these and just a start off to say this this is not intended to be a guaranteed service it\u0027s not it\u0027s not debt net this is providing and you again focused on residential applications and providing a benefit to these sports sports flows but not not scheduling access for them specifically in providing guarantees if one must statement and the rest are all should I think some of these are under debate as to should they be something stronger than I should and should they be must and it\u0027s up to the working group I just to reach a consensus on that the must statement is that a node that supports this PHP must cue the nqb traffic separate from the QB from the cue building traffic and then it should that follow that or that the nqv traffic should not be rate limited or really separately from the cue building traffic of equivalent importance and that term is defined a little bit later on next one is we should give equal priority to these two classes of traffic assuming they have equivalent importance and then the next bullet is almost the same think of maybe leborgne a little bit more specific should provide a scheduler that allows these two classes of traffic to share the link in a fair manner and provides an example of a scheduler that they could do that and then finally get to the definition of what it means to have equivalent importance should treat traffic mortgage defaults so DCP 0 as cue building traffic having equivalent importance to the nqb more traffic then should have a buffer for the end qbq that is significantly smaller than the cue building traffic gets and finally should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:20",
    "text": "support this mechanism that the draft talks about called formerly called queue protection now called traffic protection and they this gets back to that verifiable application behavior verifiable traffic behavior an algorithm that can monitor the flow that are entering that non cue building cue verify that they actually are non cue building they\u0027re not causing cue growth and causes agency and if they are redirect them to the class acuity that cue building cue we have an example of an algorithm that we\u0027re using in low latency DOCSIS that\u0027s provided in the in the draft the only requirement to just requirement around that is it should be objective and verifiable based on the flow behavior not on application layered constructs question David Brock speaking from the floor again about the very last bullet here there\u0027s an open should versus must but I want to make a couple want to make something else clear about that which is it is possible that the word node in that very last requirement might be able to be removed because one possibility is to do what DOCSIS has done and and to have a function that operates at the node level to evict Q building traffic from from an QB q 2aq where it would wear it go ahead and build a queue and the other is that you might be able to bring some form of admission control and edge classifying and filtering to bear on this the concern is that if you don\u0027t have what\u0027s called traffic action over a property of the pH B this starts to look an awful lot like an awful lot like EF okay I think I agree that that may be something that can be made more flexible certainly the node that supporting the PHP has better visibility into what traffic is causing queuing and and and likely has it has more higher fidelity in terms of traffic protection but it may not be the only place yeah it\u0027s good just wanted to come back on the thing about node in order to be verifiable yeah to know whether it\u0027s building a cure it sort of has to be on the node that has the cue that\u0027s that\u0027s sort of the point about verifiability so it\u0027s um it\u0027s a bit it\u0027s different to the diffs of architecture where you can have edge traffic protection or policing because they\u0027re you\u0027re policing against a contract and we\u0027re not talking about a contract here I still think there\u0027s I still think that there\u0027s some flexibility possible here and this this is more of just a justjust just a heads up more adventure come on that but on on that last item you ready yeah please use the list to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:22",
    "text": "talk about this because I\u0027m we only just adopted it so there\u0027s plenty of time to talk about it you have to continue yep so what is a non-key building flow so I already mentioned a couple of times it\u0027s non congestion control so it\u0027s not seeking the capacity of the link it\u0027s typically application limited low data rate sparse flows by labeling itself as non queue building its claiming that it\u0027s not going to cause a queue and that in the network so it\u0027s expecting to remain below the available capacity in the path and if it eventually does cause you build up it\u0027s going to suffer potentially some consequences for doing that in the l4s architecture if queue protection is supported actually not necessarily specifically to l for us but in a dual queue device or a device support in the PHP that has queue protection or traffic protection this result in the MIS marked packets getting reclassified into the other queue so they may see higher latency as a result of that they may arrive out of order because that decision may be done on a packet by packet basis rather than a flow by flow basis in LTE and Phi G I think there\u0027s still some discussion within a GSM a on how exactly to configure this on those links I think in some of those configurations a miss mark flow would see higher loss in others it may have the exact same ramifications as I would listed above higher latency potentially and out of order delivery all right subject to Wi-Fi so this has been quite a bit of discussion on the mailing list about how this works with Wi-Fi the first point Wi-Fi can be a bottleneck and so support for this nqb on Wi-Fi links is highly desirable and particularly ISPs that are intending to roll this out for their broadband customers want to make sure that the benefits that come from segregating on queue building traffic on the axis network link are not lost when that traffic goes across a Wi-Fi link in home so a future Wi-Fi equipment could support the nqb PhD requirement says there written I believe but current Wi-Fi equipment does not so what can we do so Wi-Fi ayo to 11 essentially supports 4 qs background best-effort video and voice the vast majority of traffic in residential situations uses the best effort access category the others are lightly used or nearly unused so this you must queue separately requirement seems like it\u0027s sort of possible there at least multiple queues to choose from but by default they are statistically prioritized so voice is the highest priority over video over best effort over background so the the should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:24",
    "text": "requirement of giving equal priority is a little bit harder to implement on existing Wi-Fi equipment some options that have been discussed one of them is to use one of the other access categories so you get the queuing separate from the best effort traffic and configure the channel access parameters edca parameters for that access category to match the parameters that are used for best effort so eliminating the priority over access category is chosen and the pan best effort and that\u0027s a configuration that is tested by WFA for all of the Wi-Fi certified equipment so at least all equipment does support that configuration I think the test point of the test case for that configuration probably leaves a bit to be desired in terms of actually verifying that that they do get exactly equal priority but unless it it is the potential option more likely useful for a Wi-Fi AP that is deployed by the ISP where they have control over those EDC parameters probably not quite as useful for an AP that is customer owned and operated and what the user may not be able to adjust those parameters or understand the need for doing so second option is to use the video access category which again is higher priority than best effort but do something to make sure that the traffic that is marked as nqb and as using that access category remains sparse so that best-effort traffic is not unduly harmed by the presence of low data rate traffic in the video access category and then also don\u0027t expect traffic protection on these Wi-Fi ApS so yes you can choose a different access category to put this nqb traffic in but it\u0027s not solely for nqb traffic any application could mark its packets and to use the same access category could be queue building traffic so nothing\u0027s guaranteed so some caution is needed for using you\u0027re trying to configure existing Wi-Fi networks to give the benefits of nqb without fundamental changes to the software on those devices and I guess caution both from their respective of the operator in may be managing the traffic that uses a different code point from best effort and also may be setting expectations for customers that this is not the performance this is not guaranteed so the open question as to what the draft but more the draft should say to ensure that that caution is you used there\u0027s some text that was quoted from RFC 83 25 which talks about interactions of diffserv and and wmm "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:26",
    "text": "Wi-Fi multimedia it looks like pretty good text me we could pull some of that into this draft an open question is is that sufficient that leads to the next slide I see a couple is this a clarification I just thought it\u0027s worthwhile to note that I think there is some Wi-Fi equipment that can already meet the nqv requirements with that possible make jonathan was pretty close to it okay Thomson Morton here I thought it worthwhile to note that I think there is some Wi-Fi equipment that can already meet the nqp requirements but without eating to recognize the actual code point and this is things like ass 9k and ass 10k and I think MT 76 when driven through a recent version of Linux because they implement FQ Caudell on a per station basis and let\u0027s see airtime fairness and things like that okay enough below also it\u0027s a useful data point I think Andrew McGregor the Wi-Fi max behavior varies in many other parameters between these cues so for example you would not want to put m QB in QB traffic in the vo q because it also changes the aggregate building and many other things and so will demolish the performance of the network if you do so I think in QB and the Wi-Fi queuing are kind of orthogonal which seems to indicate that we probably actually want more than one in QB k brain unfortunately because you\u0027re likely don\u0027t want to distinguish between Q building and not traffic in the VI q 40 this is diffserv no problem well yes exactly but just saying that that there are other characteristics that are different between these that the aggregate building parameters are different the vo q can\u0027t build aggregates and therefore is much less efficient on the wire on that on the medium and that\u0027s that\u0027s due to configuration where the TX up size exit that those configuration changing that configuration is not meaningful because much hardware can\u0027t do it we need to move on fairly quickly here if we can so alright so that leads into the diff sort of code point recommendation so in Wi-Fi is an important factor here and also keep mine this is talking about residential Wi-Fi and not enterprise "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:26",
    "text": "Wi-Fi where today there is not a lot of usage of the other access categories besides best-effort so by default residential APs and stations use the IP precedence bist so that the top three bits of the the code point district o point to select the access category default tables is given there on the right so choosing a code point and you know that that maps into one of these access categories could help make things work for at least as well as they can with existing Wi-Fi equipment there was a feature in 802 11 called cross map which defined which allows the AP to define a different mapping of code points in to access categories my understanding is that that is not mandatory for wf8 certifications so there\u0027s an open question as to whether that\u0027s supported on on stations or even on 180s I don\u0027t have any data on that but it\u0027d be interesting to know if that\u0027s an option to affect that that mapping on residential Wi-Fi networks and then there\u0027s been some discussion about you know the safety of of putting nqb traffic on a different code point and what happen if it\u0027s there isn\u0027t this traffic protection function and you\u0027ve got a Miss marked flow that\u0027s actually a boat traffic that could swamp out my sex I put on the video access carry that could swap out best ever traffic and a couple of points there so one is on the downlink direction so from the isp into the users home network and the isp could certainly remark that traffic they could also perform some other functions potentially to monitor the volume of that traffic and remarket if needed and then on but on the upstream side so uplink traffic from end stations you know game consoles and pcs that option isn\u0027t available right so so we need to pay a code point that works well for those uplink applications and I think that\u0027s not it\u0027s not been controversial at least that I\u0027ve seen to recommend a code point that maps to the video access category for uplink traffic it\u0027s really this downlink question of who\u0027s ensuring that that it\u0027s that the traffic remains for us in the downlink direction coming from the ISP so the graph currently recommends a code point to a that it is a currently unassigned pool one code point that could be assigned for this it does map to that video access category on residential Wi-Fi there are a few alternative proposals on the mailing list one from Sebastian molar suggesting two different code points six I think for traffic going across interconnects and to e4 at the ISP would map at a 2e before it goes into the home network and potentially to e for upstream traffic as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:27",
    "text": "well I think that was a bit unclear - we actually already assigned to expedited forwarding so I\u0027m not sure why that was - isn\u0027t over to a value 7 was also mentioned that\u0027s unfortunately a pool to the first District code point so it\u0027s signed for local use not for standard action right yeah and then one was also suggested primarily for enterprise environments enterprise Wi-Fi environments [Music] that\u0027s also already assigned to another use three discussion here is going to continue on the list I\u0027ll point out that one of the things that happened on the list is I speak idli mark downlink traffic looks like the looks like the most important defense here if you don\u0027t know what the Wi-Fi is gonna do don\u0027t send it stuff it\u0027s going to do bad things with and I owe a note to the list Greg and I had interesting especially this morning that might close out the rest of Sebastian\u0027s concern so let\u0027s Bob would prefer not to have a discussion here if we can avoid one because we we are we we are into negative time at this point so you get one quick remark yes I just wonder whether we ought to be agreeing the requirements for what Co point to use rather than just keep sending send that note to the list please we can have discussion there okay next slide last slide just lists the open items these are listed directly in the draft as well so obviously no time for discussion on those but that\u0027s what the bailing was just for so yeah please take to the mailing list and maybe at the next one we would like to know reasons why you would choose a good dscp code point and reasons why you choose a bad one and hopefully we home in pretty quickly on the one we want they must be IETF assigned I\u0027m not used by something else okay do we have slides from nagesh all right let\u0027s go see if we can find them probably should we watch hang on yeah I gotta hit reload I think you just you may just dismiss and I guess you need to rejoin the queue now and then unmute yourself yeah alright okay I\u0027ve decided during the queue and I hit the button all right hang on we\u0027ll try this again hello okay we finally got it good afternoon all its negation today I want to present the the changes of which we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:27",
    "text": "think should be done for the RFC for igniting fight and and the changes are motivated based on the implementation of RFC for eight nine five RFC to implement a DPL s over HTTP for our products the first point which I want to mention here is with respect to the earth negotiation procedure the current RFC doesn\u0027t have any section explaining how the negotiation should happen if a particular peer doesn\u0027t support it though the the the chance that\u0027s present in RFC\u0027s as upper two weeks as one zero so the receiver is free to ignore the parameter and go ahead with the normal establish of the Association if a kind support the auth and server doesn\u0027t support it then it so the then it gets you into a situation where the client is assuming that the connection is in the auth mode whereas a server isn\u0027t and adding to the problem if a client asks specifically 2:04 to include data and sack shank to be sent in an authenticated way then the server would be sending data in in a normal mode and the client keeps dropping this data forever so eventually the connection would get closed without any meaningful data transfer that happened between the peers the in one of the extra extension RFC\u0027s a socket AP exchange and as a method for a client to query to check if the auth negotiation is successful but the but as for me the problem is may not all implementation might have implemented this extension so there was there\u0027s no way for the client to know if that earth has gone through or normally so adding this section in the RFC would eventually clear out all the problems and both the end points by the time they exchange in it and in attack shank would know whether the earth has been negotiated successfully between them next slide please the second point which I want to mention is with respect to support for the exchange in parameter it would be all know that extension parameter was added in RFC 5:06 one and earth RFC which is four eight nine five was introduced much earlier to that so or the for a time fight doesn\u0027t ask the support for this extension parameter and if we see the major implementations like LK CTP and FreeBSD FreeBSD doesn\u0027t mandate the client to send this parameter but whereas LK CPP mandates so if our client which is connecting to lk CTP server doesn\u0027t include this extension parameter then the serve lk CTP server will will drop the connection and will not let the connection to go through so this forces our client to include the supported extension "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:27",
    "text": "parameter even when the client doesn\u0027t it support RFC 5:06 one so so what I feel is we can add this extension parameter support for RFC four eight nine five which I feel is a desirable one and which would probably make most of the interworking smooth without having much of the issues the next optimization of an exchanges which I feel should be added to the four eight nine five RFC is with respect to the support for H Mike identifier if we see the request chunk for HVAC identifiers mentions that they can be more than one H Mike identifier to be present but whereas the error response supports only a single H Mike I need for a parameter I agree the the current RFC supports only sha-1 and short of six as options but in reality we have much more than these variants of H map which is available and moreover sha-1 is something which is already duplicated most of the implementations which has to shout to physics as default so I feel that extending the HVAC identifier error caused to include more than one HVAC identifier would probably make it easier to exchange the RFC in food future whenever we have a use case to include other variants of HVAC other than the sha-1 and sha-256 next please the next point is with respect to handling of the chunks in the chunks parameter which is invalid or unknown to the receiver let\u0027s say for example the client implements a stream reconfigure option which is 6 5 - 5 RC and whereas the server doesn\u0027t implement it and if the client includes his reconfig chunk also as one of the change to be authenticated to be sent in an authenticated way then the server would not be able to understand this reconfig chain type in the change parameter and the RFC also doesn\u0027t explain how to address how the server should handle such kind of chunks when it receives in the chunks parameter so adding a section in the existing RFC which explains the handling would be something which I feel is required the next point I it\u0027s it\u0027s more of editorial than issue is with respect to the support for the random parameter the section 3.1 of the RFC mentioned that the random parameter can be of n bytes but whereas in the subsequent section in the for the procedure clearly mentions that the parameter should be of 32 bytes in in the context of the current RFC so they were couple of doubts which was raised "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:28",
    "text": "on the RFC mailing list for the same point which the people who have read the RFC got into a inter confusion whether it should be a n bytes or a 32 bytes so adding a section or a statement saying that it should be 32 bytes in the car in the context of this RFC would actually clear all the doubts next night the next point is with respect to the formation of the by tractor the RFC just says that both the client and the server should concatenate the parameters random chunks and the HVAC algorithm to form the by tractor but it doesn\u0027t explain the order of concatenation so there is a there can be a possibility where the server and client concatenates these parameters in a different way so thus creating in a situation where but the shade key might not be the same the by tractor would not be the same so adding a section or a statement in the RFC which explains the order of concatenation of these parameters to form the by tractors would clarify this doubt thanks very much the presentation sorry for the delay in getting you to present but we appreciate it actually having a presentation thank you for preparing this my first sure comment is some of these additions you recommend could actually filed as errata possibly and I think that the normal procedure is to find a file an errata and find if this consensus around the errata for the smaller issues particularly obsolete in sha-1 is obviously something we should do you know so I think we you need to work with the original editors if possible but file it Arata for the things that can be have perhaps have filed against them does that seem a great starting point and then see what else is on the list and we can decide what to do next definitely agree with your comments thank you and and we would take questions now but I think we\u0027ll take questions on the list because we\u0027re short of time so thanks very much for the presentation yeah thank you right this is David I think the the deal is far the route of the can be filed and then work with the other folks in CTP community and we can decide probably in Vancouver timeframe whether what we want to do is for the things that cannot be dealt with as errata whether we want to go ahead with a weir in group 4895 bits draft shell okay now we\u0027re down to two we got two items left and got it got to figure out which one to do we can do that yeah so that\u0027s what we\u0027ll do we\u0027ll do Gauri\u0027s presentation here and we will try to find some spare time on Thursday for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:29",
    "text": "Marcus\u0027s presentation he was able to get time and I see crg this morning which was very helpful for that uh for that that group all right okay let\u0027s even get Cory where you so this is me I made the slide beliefs I remember I was talking about hi I\u0027m Cory Ferris talking as an individual this is an individual draft that has previously been presented in TCP M the reasons that might become apparent as we go through it this draft targets this working group ts bwg with guidelines for how to do internet congestion control and we do have stuff in RFC s that talk about internet congestion control so I guess the first question is why do we need guidelines well next slide please or clicker so the IETF has actually said quite a bit about congestion control over the years and particularly about not causing congestion collapse and there\u0027s a jury recommendation in RFC 808 5 is to leverage existing congestion control methods and that was cool when we wrote the original UDP guides I think quite cool then it maybe isn\u0027t quite so cool at this moment in time when we\u0027re seeing other transport frameworks emerge that actually do have new ways of doing congestion control so when maybe the best advice from the ITF isn\u0027t just go and use one of our existing congestion controllers please do if you don\u0027t know how to design a congestion controller they\u0027re pretty difficult but if you know how to what guy do we have well Jonah and I sat down at the quick interim in London and had a little bit of a chat and we thought I said bravely it\u0027s probably just about four pages of text in in really in recommendations this isn\u0027t too difficult and do you want to write down Janet or do you want me to and Jonah being smart said oh you just do that gory and then I\u0027ll have a look at it um yeah so so I read all the RFC\u0027s I could find about congestion control maybe I\u0027ve missed some so that\u0027s always a good call and the RFC already say a lot of this things we want to say but it took more than four pages in fact it took four sections but they\u0027re not very big sections and I produce zero zero which you presented previously zero one was a slightly more coherent version of this and then zero two was me fixing the annoying typos in zero one zero three which is approaching where we are now at and I added more text on starvation because I think that is an important thing that protocols have to avoid when we design a congestion controller we have to avoid starvation and we have to avoid congestion collapse and I try to differentiate these I got feedback from various people and I\u0027m calling provided "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:30",
    "text": "feedback on FEC in particular and I said yeah yeah we should talk a bit about FEC we pointed to RFC five 783 if you don\u0027t know what it is go look it up it\u0027s a dressing RFC and then we published zero four which is where we are today we published us I published by the IETF as an individual the big thing in this document is section 3 which is principles of congestion control and it comes across as a number of different things that you should understand if you\u0027re talking about building a new congestion controller understand these things first and then look at these RFC principles when you design it and the stuff here which I hope is non-controversial there\u0027s a diversity of path characteristics in the internet it\u0027s actually much more diverse than you would ever imagined fluor multiplexing and congestion can be annoying they are not catastrophic but they are certainly annoying to users both the multiplexing aspect in terms of jitter and the congestion in terms of queues the most important thing however is to avoid congestion collapse starvation and the variants thereof which block users from actually creating new flows and so what are the guidelines well there\u0027s something I\u0027ll congest you in initialization talking about how you start up what I want to do an animation here it didn\u0027t work okay using path capacity is another thing and avoiding bursts and this mitigation was very controversial it\u0027s being written in RFC\u0027s for a while and I think quick resisted it for a little while but it\u0027s in there now so everything is all hunky-dory and transmitting excessive bursts in the network is actually a little bit bad for things for good reasons and timers and retransmission have to be handled very carefully because the diversity of things that go on along paths responding to potential congestion and how you respond to ecn is something you must do how well look at the guidelines using more capacity than you\u0027re currently using it\u0027s something that\u0027s not as easy as people think there are good ways to do this and there are bad ways to do this slow start was a good way up to a point now let\u0027s set an envelope for doing this and net wave signals are the solution to everything if you can trust them and so far we\u0027re struggling to work out how to trust them but yep some network signals might add value there\u0027s a trust but verify bit in here as well which we could probably take forward in the future and protocol messages requires some sort of protection and a new thing to the transport area but yeah people might try and do bad things with your congestion controller so one look at what to do when you receive information on path and off paths trying to be quick what\u0027s the purpose this documents to draw a big red box around these things but TCP in it everything we say in this document should not live at TCP in any way as currently specified but quicking this box well the intention is that quick fits in this box this box is not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:31",
    "text": "narrow and it\u0027s not short it\u0027s a big box and quick I hole will fit into this box if that\u0027s controversial then we should talk about this because that\u0027s the intention and other transports we specify here should fit within this box and the box currently is set by BC p41 piracy to nine one four what with Sally and if you know Sally void if you remember her and that that\u0027s no quite an old document this document if we go forward with it could change BC P 41 or may even replace it um we have to figure this as we go forward you could have more than one hour I\u0027ve seen its mbcp question to the working group trying to be very quick here um has anyone read it does anybody care will anybody help me if I try doing this I should I spend my time doing other things I have plenty of other things um and can we do this in TS vwg should I just ask these questions David lets you go get good to the mic I will go ahead and volunteer myself as it was once I survived getting getting the transfer header encryption draft done yes I\u0027m interested in this but I gotta get survive that draft first and I see bunch we were going to the mic so uh let\u0027s have at it John I and God thank you for doing the work on this gory so I did read the draft as promised it took me a lot less time to do that then it took you to write it over for me but I do want to say that there\u0027s this I have very specific comments about the draft itself which I don\u0027t want to spend time now at the mic talk to you offline about those yeah I just interrupt to this point I mean I want to take questions about whether we should do this work and not or whether recommendations are correct yeah fair enough I think that the the work I think that the work should be done in part because as you said and you didn\u0027t quite say it this way but we\u0027ve done we written a lot of text about condition control guidelines and principles and this that and the other and none of them really have guidelines or principles or useful as far as I can see so when looking into all the texts that we\u0027ve produced I find it difficult to find real recommendations that I can pull out of them so I think there\u0027s a big gap here and I think we should provide something in that gap precisely how that looks is not it\u0027s still not fully clear to me but it\u0027s something more concrete than 29:1 for because when a know just lays out the space of things rather than actually give very precise guidelines and it should be less I think it needs to be between that and actually specifying exact behavior it needs to be somewhere in the middle there so I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:33",
    "text": "it\u0027s very relevant useful important to have something like this especially given the flurry of work in congestion control we are seeing I will just say one quick point that this should be broad your box is talking about specific transports and I agree with that the way the text is written in the draft seems to be very aligned with TCP I almost think that this should be broad enough that new condition control work that happens anywhere should be able to use this not just within the IETF these guidelines should be Universal in that sense I\u0027m noting that Janice said offended me in any way I like these ideas and if the last thing was a criticism it\u0027s a criticism because the existing RFC\u0027s were written mainly with TCP in mind many of the words in there were taken more or less directly from those RFC\u0027s because that\u0027s the only starting point I believe we can have I mean next person please Marco yo have I read this really not but I took a quick look at that of it and it looks useful so I care I hope many people here care of it and it\u0027s true that the these principles and what consistent controls were - is also a sweat and 29:14 so it spread all around so very careful consideration should be taken to cook all of that stuff but in particular what else to include so there are experimental work and especially that work should be taken very carefully all very carefully whether - what to say about that because it\u0027s still experimental hmm interesting [Music] Praveen Microsoft yeah I started reading it I don\u0027t finished it I will send ascender review to the mailing list yes I care and I think it\u0027s really important so I agree with whatever Jonah said so it should be general enough to apply to all transports and I think this is really really important thank you Thanks all right but Briscoe yes it\u0027s important I think having done the first round it may be worth taking out stuff that isn\u0027t really saying anything new just to focus on the things that are updates if you like and things that have changed for instance the burst stuff is was something previously we didn\u0027t really think about because latency wasn\u0027t that you know which weren\u0027t trying to give it that tight and as thick as machines have need to go far and fast they\u0027ve tended to aggregate up and then burst and so that is something that\u0027s new I think there\u0027s some new ideas coming out on fairness as I mentioned you know CCR G is a paper in hot Nets about how to measure it and things like that so try "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:33",
    "text": "not to keep just repeating stuff from the past but focus on the things that may be more controversial [Music] we could probably add a section pretty quickly on what we think is the new stuff and see how that goes that would be useful yeah I you see that I just would like to mention that\u0027s know in DC p.m. we have our Tea Orchestra and then as far as I can read the draft there are several overlaps and then we already have a private chat but snow if TS vwg will be the venue of this draft no this working group should decide how to you know Kogi\u0027s restore merger should make some kind of decision to come how to treat or do consider Yoshi which you have to arch your considerations yeah oh yeah okay got it yeah so right okay I guess I should respond just to touch on RT or considerations and this document was a working document in T CPM and still is and I expect is now complete I was Speaker TCP I\u0027m about this there is nothing cuz inconsistent between that document and this document so the overlap is purely restating stuff here that mark also came to the same conclusion on I went carefully through that and the overlap is is real overlap is not a contention in their way so we have decided document process if we decide to do two documents how we manage that but I will talk specifically about RT or consider and yeah it is something that we should reconcile between working groups does that answer the question yeah yeah okay I think I\u0027m gonna do it ts vwg can we adopt it I think we can do the working th pwg I think an adoption call right now is a little premature I heard a bunch of people like a bunch of people at the mic who are interested in supportive of working on this draft let\u0027s plan on on some revisions from view in the list and elect the adoption call in Vancouver a little bit early do it of this right now yeah that\u0027s fine and that\u0027s what I expected I just want to make the question because if it caused uproar about the idea of it then I\u0027m not going to carry on I sent I hear positive noises and I\u0027m looking for people to actually talk to in the coda to try and work out how to pay that adoption request a real thing at the next idea I\u0027m sorry I\u0027ll commit to actually working with Gauri on the next revision thank you and could the person who spoke behind you the first time I\u0027m looking at you see next Mike could you please get up to the mic and and say your name because I didn\u0027t catch it for the minutes I spoke Briscoe no no no sorry this person sitting to you to you to your to your your left Bob yeah yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:36",
    "text": "say your name\u0027s slowly please moderate Cukor yo thank you yeah I just wanted to add an addendum to what I said before even if you\u0027re pulling out things that have changed we mustn\u0027t imply that the previous advice isn\u0027t as important as it used to be it\u0027s it\u0027s still important you know the the congestion control itself RTO and things like that are all all important we just don\u0027t need to keep saying it saying it more yeah and and I particularly but I\u0027ve been trying to think a bit about Sally Floyd and she kept on with that and the fact that she kept on at it is possibly one of the reasons why so many people understand it and if we stop saying it there are a lot more or a lot of people who won\u0027t understand it or won\u0027t appreciate it\u0027s it\u0027s strange to have to think about that and it\u0027s only when you you know something\u0027s not happened you start to get complacent about it but it doesn\u0027t mean to say it won\u0027t happen and Bob I assume you\u0027re you\u0027re you\u0027re planning to work on this your copious spare time it\u0027s not available other drafts from all the other drafts you\u0027re working on right I think Bob just won endeared yeah I think Bob just volunteered I\u0027m just I\u0027m just putting on my chair had and observing Bob\u0027s got but Bob\u0027s already already got a lot of time that he remember the dress I\u0027d say maybe gaudy I and Bob can try and find some time this week yes sort of sit down and beat this out a little bit more seriously I I\u0027m doing this as an individual and I I\u0027m only going to continue this if other people talk to me because I\u0027m happy to do some writing but this is something that has to be written down together we have to define this box together and with that I think we\u0027re done thank you very much and yeah I will bash the agenda to get Marcus\u0027s presentation in on on the next session we do appear to have some time although there are some items on the agenda the capable capable explain to consume all time available and then some "
  }
]