[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "the uh concert house the opera i think i did walk past it then okay i think um yes i know we can see that yes i know uh okay we're gonna start i think so let's go uh thank you very much for joining us this is the itf troll meeting and okay people participants make sure that you're using minteco and that your audio video is off unless you're presenting so we are going to delegate the handling of the sites to you when you need to present uh make sure of the resources they are outlined okay yep i do this part this is an itf meeting and as such you need to be aware of the noteworth notably of the ipr policies if you know of any ip pertaining to any of the topics being discussed videos or somebody else's you know need to either mention it or not talk about the topic and also i want to mention the harassment topic so with bcb25 we expect this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "meeting to be a professional meeting where everybody is treated with respect and so if you feel anything is going on that is not appropriate you have contact the ombuds team which you can reach confidentially and we really want this this meeting this workplace to be professional thank you so who could volunteer to help us with the notes there are some volunteers let's see five people online do we have another i see pascal trying to talk is that to say yes yes it's to say yes for some reason take time for my mic to work at night okay i will contribute good thank you guys i'll take notes when he's talking great thank you michael thank you very much great okay about the agenda you're going to have first the working group status by dominican myself then a pascal will provide us the uh updates in our projection then michael will discuss the open issues of enrollment priority and then pascal will provide that update in the sixth"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "law work but multicast registration that affect repo and then five minutes for open floor do you have some comments on the agenda objections okay thank you we proceed so this is our trap status um so we got thank you alvaro for the update in the nsa extension so now the others i need to replay and address typing issues then for our developer it's uh this is our this document has open issues and we're going to discuss next on this um and our projections are going to be presented today and it's a kind of all the issues uh open issues or addresses now it's kind of ready for last call and then the enrollment priority is going to be presented today and mainly we want to discuss the open issues uh mopex capabilities and it is a work in progress you need to put attention on that and the role story acknowledge probably we will need drive a working group adoption for it we just got the new work adopted on that work about the fast border router grass detection uh okay so for milestones um well we have we proposed changes i don't know dominic we want to take lead on this okay well the microsoft haven't been updated in a while and so they're lagging by maybe a year or two so it's about time to refresh those um so here are the milestones that were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "defined so far and i'm we're proposing new dates so we've put years but not months so um can we have an estimate for those and so that we can refresh the milestones so let's go through them uh their projection um i think this can be submitted to asg within this year um yeah and your jp or maybe alvaro based on your own queue when you think this would be reasonable [Applause] uh hi alberto with a rolling d um don't progress the work based on what the working group can do uh my my queue yes is very deep right now and i'm running behind um but don't look at that you know just you know progress to work as the worker needs to progress it and um i'm working on finding a way to drain the queue a little bit faster there were some documents especially last year that were bigger documents not from this working group but um that i had to you know process and they um you know custom blocking there so you know process as you normally would and i'll um try and take care of this faster okay thank you if you were asking for the dow projection yes my take is we had more than one very deep review recently and you will see in my updates but uh yeah i think we are we are we have reached the quality of uh workgroup call so i will be happy when you start it and and my status was uh remo saris was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "supposed to give one last review before walker crystal but since we got one for from lee one from torres um i think remoussary's review can can be one of those for lasko as opposed to before let's go so may to may is fine may oh my god yeah definitely even earlier i mean if you start the workplace call now i mean as soon as you know the current last goals are completed um you may start this one and then it's a matter of amount of max again this is submission to asg so i guess this is after id review is that correct uh no uh after working group last call i think when it's a projection as the name says no projection uh there are some open issues maybe june or september what do you think michael um i'm just looking and i'm thinking we we should fix the title um maybe the title is wrong but um uh yeah no i i actually think we really could push the button before uh are at around the next ietf i think so i think i mean it's it got to maturity point and then we said oops so uh i think we just need to resolve uh the discussion as to what we need to do and we'll do that probably maybe today even it's already had a few reviews so i think so i think certainly by the end of the summer but i think even earlier maybe the beginning of the summer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "hmm almost is fine on september yeah okay okay september and then one more picks and capability that we have to there do two milestones because there are two documents so maybe we aim for november i i think that's maybe reasonable but that's good it's going to take us uh i think we're going to need some some uh some interim meetings to to get to that because i think there's still a lot of of open questions uh that there and and it uh yeah it would be great to have some implementations uh to do something like this our team okay yes uh will you implement mop x and capex no okay uh thank you for the comment and then the well contract work just started so it will be pushed for next year and then these modifications uh dominic or yes i wrote 2023 so i stand by it okay and then yes okay for young model friend mpl um do you want to work on this topic i mean this is anybody still working on that okay yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "um then so the question is do we want to drop some milestone or is anybody willing to work on it to resurrect it this is the yang model something we already adopted and no it was uh by a long time ago it was driven by peter right but it was adopted by the working group and it's part of the milestone so what do we do yeah i i don't think we're gonna finish it okay we can we can confirm in the mailing list yes okay okay some of the comments that we got for out every ripple that they they need as well the young model for that was a request from the area director but it's a other public but it's really a bit young so maybe at some point we need to consider this for the management part right other can we remove milestones what's the process for that do we need to get approval yeah hi i'll go right on about anything yes so the um the part of the required process is the charter right we need to change the charter um to change the milestones uh you know you change them you add the lead whatever i'm gonna get an email to to approve but in general you know this is um a big part of this is your decision now as you know i said um the asg is paying specialization to manageability and the normal question comes up with every draft so where's the yang model for this how are we going to manage this network um the one thing that that you know we probably or you need to discuss in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "working group is you know how do these networks get managed you know is yang the appropriate way to do it are there other tools um you know i don't know because if we need um work to be done you know we need to work work to be done because otherwise the solutions wouldn't be complete uh ideally we would find people in the working group that are interested um so maybe that's the type of conversation that we need to have because not all uh say iot related deployments are going to have the same type of manageability that other networks or other types of numbers are going to have so if yang makes sense sure at some point we need to do it if it doesn't make sense um then you know maybe not so we can then negotiate that when we recharge it at some point so we don't we don't have a a work item right now as a yang model for ripple okay this is a yang model for mipple correct right and i would say that that there's close to zero deployment of nipple today um some of the lighting and building people were very enthusiastic about it and i don't know if they're still enthusiastic about it maybe that that may be one of the questions we don't like why i'm saying i don't think we'll complete it because i don't think the people that even have a mipple are are participating anymore and i don't think i can write a management protocol for a protocol i haven't implemented right so um i think yeah actually mentioned the ripple and middle management data model for those it's mentioned in the in the workings in the charter but yeah probably there is people that have some other priorities pascal do you want to say something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:21",
    "text": "uh meepo is your my son so uh not that i like it now is not using my runner so you can refine get somebody who is interested in working on the network which is young for repo how can we expect a great model so we can keep it in the charter but it is the work item right i have trouble hearing you so either can you restate slowly or go to the notes and fix what i just typed i heard you saying wise and used maple but now and i lost the rest of it let me switch device because can you hear me better with this class you just switched my yeah this is better okay so i was saying people is being used by myself uh but by side is not using young and until we have an actual deployment that uses ripple and my our people had decided to work with yank i don't see that we will get resources to develop the young model and not keeping the charter is okay but the workata is stored it will be stored for a while uh what the white zone ysan is using for management npl well they have their home based"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "management okay thank you it's documented within the weissen standard but it's not it's not an it's it's a squad okay we will take uh to confirmation in the main list of the removal of this uh work thank you i can't say we necessarily have to remove it from the charter because maybe one day somebody will use young for managing a report network so let's have the charter idle but we are not working on it it's a fact okay thank you about the next topic uh self-taught multicast for ripple do we have some comments on it yes i uh i have two comments well the first one is benjamin you know is stepping out and he's doing all his reviews but if you watch his review he just obtained but if you look inside the review you will see why he abstained and he's basically telling us that the work group has not done before work the quality of the document was not good enough when it twitched isg that's what ben is telling us i'm paraphrasing but please look at his words and i was asked to do a review on version 13 i did i published it um i used gentle words but no sorry we are not talking about how they be labeled it's sort of uh they oh i'm sorry just was not against oh sorry i chose a sauce sorry oh no no no progress on that we just discussed it with gaston this morning"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "because we because of the other draft the the one on the story a non-starring mode multicast which which i will be discussing uh so he said did somebody work on how that interacts with c-cast but that's the only news in years and so i don't know that anybody's working on success so is there any intention to progress it or does it mean it's the only thing i know is probably a look at it again with casper to see how it integrates with the uh multicast registration work and the mach 5 but i have no idea that there will be an intersection so i don't know anybody's working on it from years okay okay thank you and then one character working group are close next year as well okay then um okay we are going to be fast here there are open the issues to be discussed today about uh problem and enrollment priority then we have additional open items for obs triple observations and mopeds and finally well as pascal was stating that we have a new version of audible ripple but still is with the open issues there are tickets credit for the reviews that we got and for the discuss and the abstain of pen comments um but yes now the work the this document have changed the mode of operation to four i don't think there is some outdoors online i don't think so but uh okay but then um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "this uh work is uh some of the elders want to finish this work uh but we would like to know if there is interest in the working group to work in this topic there is one implementation from 2016 but it was not updated with the last modifications so basically we would like to know what do you think if you want to work on this topic yes pascal well i spent quite some time on this i did i just do three reviews already yes we didn't the work has been very very slow and at the moment it's very unclear that what is specified works i mean from my command and from ben's command it's very very clear that it works at all as described so we cannot push the button for publication request at this time not at all and whether there are enough hands to work on it i i i could do one more review in the future no worries but i will not contribute and so we need active contributor really implement and look at my commands it's not even clear it works okay thank you very much pascal uh so yes indeed this document they need to be addressed all the open issues before further uh further uh publishing process what do you think alvaro it's not it's not just saying uh yes or no on the question right it's really describe the mechanism because it's empty and it's as this level description doesn't seem to work so it goes deeper than just saying yes or no to question okay well um i'll go over a thunder rolling id so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "so this document already went through working with last call and iatf last call and asg evaluation and i read it and everything else and uh yes um you know there are a number of topics that uh ben brought up uh he ended up staying abstain usually means there's so much work that needs to be done but i'm not um i don't have time i'm not willing to engage in that uh ben of course is stepping down today as security ad so you know he doesn't have any more cycles to to work on this um and and pascal's recent review really concerned me because um again you know this document left the working group um a year ago or so um we are at a point where um i could actually approve the document there's enough positions to to move it forward but there are enough holes and things that need to be fixed that that's definitely not the right thing um the right thing to me seems to be to return the document to the working group uh which is where i think that the question from ines comes of of was there interest in the working group to work on this topic uh because if there isn't then of course we're almost sentencing the document to death right because we're returning it if the worker is not going to work on it then it's probably not going to go anywhere um i i hate to see work that people have done you know sort of go to waste but if that is the state of where we are with the document and with the interest of the working group then you know that's what sometimes happens right if there's no interest there's no interest so what i think i need to do is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "return the document to the working group and if or as you find time to an interest to work on it then you you can right and and if it ever comes back to me and the aesg then we'll do the processing at that point but yeah there's enough issues outstanding and open right now and enough concerns that that i i can't um push the document forward thank you very much alvaro yeah all right we are here with you so having the document to the working group part so we can address all the issues there is the way is the right way to proceed so thank you very much okay uh okay i passed the deck to [Music] hello i passed the contract to you from the slides okay okay okay so this is uh about the the dow projection just for those who are new to the topic um the the main people standard rfc 67 65 550 i'm sorry um is a classical quote-unquote distance vector with a protocol with some specific adaptation for iot in particular it's an is appropriate meaning that there's a sense of direction in separation but it's it's a distance vector family now there are extreme use cases where it's probably not what you want and at one extreme we can see uh ripple aodv play that's the pure man a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "very challenging environment where you really want to establish a little route that you can use so that's a very extreme use case the other extreme use case is when you you want a much better tighter control like the type of traffic engineering situation um and this is where the dow projection plays so you can see it as a sdn variation of ripple whereas aodv would be a reactive protocol adaptation of ripple all of them play with the same messaging the same basic structures but they they operate reactively for iodv and using um sdn type controller based routing for no projection so that's basically how i would position it now i built this slide the sake of positioning the different things that we manipulate with this document and how it it builds on what ripple did in the past so first thing there are two kinds of frauds that their projection can install inside the network what the first type is what i would call a segment and it's a serial link it's serial set of hubs and that's what happens with a project down which is sent by the root to forwarding node g which is one of those black nodes on the top and the the p down will follow the path on the reverse direction of the packet which is true for redid and the the p diode contains that path so it will basically say a to f to g it is sent to g it goes all the way back this path and a which is the ingress will send the pedal back to the root and with this we have built a serial segment that's what we call a segment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "but now one more question sorry a segment one should have the ingress included or not necessarily segments as an ingress and an egress so i i should i could have written uh that a is the ingress of that particular segment okay but it's it's it's our naming right i mean because a segment by itself if it's if it has a track id for itself it's already a track but it's just a serial path um normally it's just it's more of a component of a larger structure and that larger structure is what we call a track and we build a track by putting together a number of track legs and in this in this drawing i have three track legs one that goes from egress they are they all go from egress to egress right in grass to egress it's it's a path that you establish with a non-stirring pidang and it it pro it provides a uh loose uh source right path between grass and grass and you can see the first leg is from i to a a to f f to g g to e and and through that you can reach the targets ti's so that's the upper leg then you have a middle leg which goes from i to a a to b b to e and then you can reach the targets again what's interesting in this second leg is the path between a and b is actually another track so it's it is itself a track for which a is ingress and b is a grass okay so so a has to re-encapsulate if you like see that's a terminal uh but it's it's more complex than now because for instance the track that you see between the i and e has three legs in it and the last leg is i to b to e"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "oh by the way um i say i to b to e i so that i should have said i to a to e b four but it was just to differentiate that i was going uh via the top so basically when you when you establish a non-storing loose path you just provide what we call the relay in this picture which are the nodes uh which are which appear in the source route so the source route says for instance to go i to a to e there is a pedal one of those great pedal on the left which is set by the root to increase i and the main route the root of the meteor deck and it says source rod path is i to a to e and a will have a segment to go to e that will allow it to forward towards e but the source rod pass will just say a to e and that will in fact imply that you go through the segment which is fge okay so a track leg is a loose source route serial path between the loose hubs you get segments and the track is the aggregation of multiple of those legs each leg go from ingress to egress so this is what i wanted to illustrate in this uh drawing so you see the targets that you can reach are those green ti's on the right to the set of t1 t2 tn the legs there are three of them iae which which is advertised as one non-storing model with the targets ti second leg is l2 which goes from ib e and that's the lower leg again it's the source rod pulse going to ti and the last leg is the one that goes across i a b e and that one actually re-encapsulates another track between a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "and b sorry thank you uh so from subtracts we can have segments and legs as well right well we can decide our wording but for now i have written it such a way that the subtract is like a track it goes from it goes from the ingress to the egress so it's only it's any aggre it's any composition of legs so so the the track between a and b is not a subtract because it's it's it's what we say in the language is we place the bucket on one subtract and what it really means is you place it on one more legs between i and e so just to be able to use the language easily uh right now the text uses subtract as just any subset of the legs of the track and that's because when you do row using this you will not place the packet on all the legs in parallel because that would consume too much energy you will select a subset of the legs and place the packet on that subset so you will get redundancy but you will not waste too much energy so so that's why the subtracts are any subsets uh so any set which is a subset of the track and the track itself is the set of legs okay so the track is really the set l1 l2 s3 and the subtracts are any subset of that but empty sets because you cannot route on the empty set so it's just i mean the language that that we used and the objects that we're constructing so this is ripple meaning that we are building a diode between i and e uh the deodag as root which is i it's actually reversible giving you a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "deal dag which root is e by the way and if the links are reversible the other will be if the links are not reversible because they are not really symmetrical then you use any in one direction and the the the track you can see globally from the external view has a tunnel between i and e and effectively if you follow rfc 9008 you'll find that the targets are external routes based on all destinations for this geodec just like ripple on their leaves if you like and so the the encapsulation when you reach ingress will be exactly what 900 tells you so the increase has to encapsulate towards the egress which is the sixth hour serving the 600 watts those ripple newer leaves and then the crest encapsulates and um and and delivers to a target so this is looking from a distance this is a classical ripple geodag where the targets are external destinations and the ingress is the root and then and the raw problem is if you if you look at if you consider the raw working group the raw problem is to avoid completely flooding this graph which would mean too much spectrum too much energy when you want to reach from i to e if you flood completely this graph yes you have the highest possible reliability but you also consume a lot of energy and bandwidth spectrum and since energy and spectrum are scarce the row prime will be to select a subset of l1 l2 l3 for each packet um i'm also summarizing uh some rules of how all this work works so the track is set up by distilling legs and segments and the legs go from the ingress to egress and the segments uh basically fill the gap between the loose hops so the segments are serial hops the packet gets in a segment hop and gets out in the same fashion there is no processing on it but forwarding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "non-stirring mode pedal are used to signal the legs so it's a source rod path storing mode pedal is used to signal a segment it is a serial there is no loose it has to be completely up by your biop the fact that we have the segments so we have the storing mode that enables the non-storing to be loose actually it's because we complete the gaps with the story that we can have non-storing loops and in particular we can leverage that in the main geodag to enable non-storing mode ripple to have loose source route so you basically can install segments in the main geodag so that your packets will have a shorter source rotator and obviously the segments are also used inside the tracks uh and and then that allows you to again to specify your leg as a loose uh sequence of hops there is this rule in the document which we could discuss but it seemed to be the most useful way of doing things the tracking grass is implicitly a target when you do no starring mode you think that uh basically normally you the stone starting mode installs this quarter leg this tunnel between the ingress and egress well in your routing table you will say that the egress is reachable by that it makes sense okay okay status of the draft and the other rules you can read them so we've published 24 21 was a huge review by taurus i can never thank you enough but we discussed that the atf 12 huge restructuration because taurus 3 came from outside of the of the group and so he asked for more restructuration to help the first time reader et cetera et cetera so we did that huge restructuration and also also good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "technical points then we had michael's review and then again it went kind of deep terminology clarification uh also mapping to that net uh which is the relay nodes are the the hops the loose ups and the forwarding nodes that's that terminology are the hubs in the segments one in one out then we have 23 with liz review and like i said we have those three very deep reviews very happy with them and lee some of his his questions were easy to answer so kind of did it with version 23 but then there are four issues if you remember that we discussed at an interim which were harder so we we discussed the four issues on the list and i published basically the result as 24. so my my view is that 24 fixes all the the kitab issues one of them was how many targets you can have in the dao and uh lee wanted more than one but how can the controller reach more than one maybe it can maybe it cannot maybe the path that would reach them all is not as good and there are policies in play and we did not want to enter that game so what i said is okay to have multiple targets but um we we guarantee you need to reach the first one in order and then the the controller will do its best to reach also the others but it really depends on what can do but then there are um more uh discussion about the federation flag in the sau is a link between two siblings the actual or not which was introduced for lease review on 23 and and the text was improved on 24. uh since then we have uh done some rephrasing on legs and subtracts which is uh basically what we just discussed um i've i had to publish it i could publish it now so so we can review that those changes they are minor but it's just to clarify the terminology so we can really speak about your checks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "and we were waiting for him saris review which did not come i mean the request is a lot of work but i don't think blocks were good plus call because we had all those three reviews like michael uh tell us at the end so that was since when world cup let's go start and everything i would hope people to uh look in that if we want new stages to be more specific and stuff uh with our flows that they have in mind that we missed in particular fields there is there is discussion on all this but if if people think we are missing that would be good that's it for me thank you comment questions okay thank you very much pascal we go to michael now you have control do i deck yeah okay i just the first time with my with the phone you see so there you go okay so um uh this document has been did we even get as far as working group last call and then we stopped again i can't remember but um uh back and forth but that's the story so far you see that work there we go um so um we got quite far uh we merged in another document uh with a different metric last year um and we had a lot of discussions about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "this and then uh conrad observed that uh this new extension uh interacts poorly with the trickle timer and so then we had a lot of conversation back and forth and we settled on the proposal that the value would not change throughout the dodge and so the route would be able to set the value the preference for that doday and it would it would uh there's a word for spread throughout the dodge that i forget it will propagate through the dough dag and that will be it if the root wants to change it it would need to you know increment the dtsm or something like that to reset the trickle timer um and so we kind of uh reluct i was reluctant with that change but i'm like okay i guess that's the right answer um it it's a compromise um and rule and said well actually that just doesn't satisfy his need for it all i think that we can solve it i think that we agreed we could solve this problem by adding another lollipop counter to this extension and that is essentially what i think that we're going to be doing it just hasn't been done yet um so that was the kind of things that we had discussion about um i think that the new counter solves the problem um i'm going to put that into the next revision of the document um i don't feel i don't feel that confident about the whole thing until i've actually written some code about it which is for me won't be very soon so i would really appreciate uh some more deep review particularly if you have writing code um i don't think that we'll finish the the this this needs some effort and i think we've talked with the milestones sometime at the end of the year this will be ready and i said summer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "i think that's still feasible um that's really it discussion um if if you if you have questions about what is going on i have some other slides we can talk to but we only have 15 minutes left so i don't want to spend a lot of time of that if if not any other questions from the group pardon yes in the queue oh go ahead please yeah i was one of the proponents of uh fixing the minimum priority at the root because uh i hope i demonstrated on the mailing list through a number of arguments that it just could not work the way it was specified because you for one example you would get different values from different parents and stuff like that and also there was the policy to say how you would increment it so the the notes could increment in any fashion and that was really weird uh i think the the lollipop is much needed we want it uh the reason why it's much needed is because you might receive uh values which are older from some parents than others and you want to know which is the latest one it doesn't really fix the prime that it does not balance the dag but another argument was whatever was proposed there did not fix it either and balancing the graph is a very difficult problem but it won't be fixed uh by just the value that gets incremented uh down the geoduck like this if you look at it it's a global problem and it it has to be well i looked at it deeply the only way i found to fix it is to look at it from the outside from a controller perspective uh it's it's it's a very hard prime to balance something in the distributed fashion basically so there's so there's the thing that i care about um which is a is a less pro lower property or than balancing the graph which is that um nodes don't try to enroll in parts of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "the graph which have no capacity to support them so i i think that that that it does solve that problem right no what's so well at the end the draft has but not not changing the priority down the diu what prevents the note to join is the priority we put in the beacon right so the question is how do you map the priority into the beacon now so so it could be done we could work on how basically uh someone could could tell that and maybe we need another value to say something like that like the parent would say below me i don't want anybody or something uh but th this will this will take new work because for instance do you want nobody because of amount of traffic do you want and and in which case the solution could be slow down the traffic or do you want nobody because you don't have storage mode resources well most of us are not doing story mode um or do you want to do it because you don't have enough done story mode resources where non-storyboard resources are really to your children not down the gear deck so you don't need for that to to control what goes beyond you in the dear dark you just need to control your own neighbor cash and and for that your beacon is enough you can you can manipulate your own beacon to protect your own neighbor cash i agree with you that's true yeah and for the for the children of yourself it's not your concern because that does not affect your resources it just affects the support that you get through and now the question if of the throughput that you get through is yet another balancing which is not necessarily related to the children right some children can speak more than others etc so it's it's it's it's a lot more complex than than than what the draft seem to enter and and so let's keep the draft simple that's what he's doing well which is not storing if you haven't been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "cash prime fix your beacon um and if you have a throughput prime like i said it's probably a more global brand than this and for now is flood control so pascal you prefer the document as it is right now where we've changed it so that you don't change the value from the root you don't need a new law do do we still need a new lollipop counter i think we do my memory of that is all right uh is what conrad said is probably that you may get different information from different parents if you want to make sure which one is the freshest all right so is is our four bits enough i hope so right yeah so if if we use the traditional uh lollipop that we have in section seven of 65.50 yeah then we need a eight by eight bits right uh but do we want that or just do we just want a a rotation of in which case the rotation inside is is four bits well so i think the question is are we going to steal some bits from some other part of the extension or are we going to add another bite that's really the the two choices right well if you want to have a very simple specification uh you should have one bite because then you can just say what we say everywhere else just look at section seven all right well that's what i'll probably say that's what i'll propose in o5 then and um uh with that i think i'm done are you any other other comments from other people okay so i wonder how i turn it off well i guess i'll let ninez do that i did okay okay thank you very much michael"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "so basically we will need a lollipop and then check section 7 for knowing how to do that some additional comments questions okay have some implementations okay some are willing to implement comments on this one okay anyway i think there are people that was in the middle east that is not today participating so i think we will receive more comments on this work mainly because as well affects his teach work okay thank you uh pascal you should be next yes so i guess it is probably time to start working on this document in this group so just to give you some some context about what this is and some of you i've have heard about it many times so the series of therapies which represent the adaptation of ipv6 nepa discovery initially for the context of iot and now it has grown way beyond uh there are it's it's used in in reef to choose in a ripple it's used it's proposing evpn so basically what this series of rfc do is is enabled to register a node between an address between a host and a router and ask the router to to redistribute that address in the routing protocol of the day that can be vpn that can be a ripple that can be whatever the cool thing is that the signaling is cryptically abstract to the routing that takes place so you can have any routing protocol or both uh it's still a simple registration with the same format exactly by the host well i say exactly that there is a back field where you can still pass some hints to the specific routing protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "if you need to but otherwise it's basically a routing agnostic uh registration that we have so this registration was initially for only addresses but we are now with this draft we are proposing to to extend it to any cast and multicast address so for multicast we already had a ribbon counterpart with a mob 3 yes and that was pretty much a mix of storing mode and multicast but we we don't have anything for non-storing mode which appears to be uh the most important uh case for the actual ripple deployments so part of what this thing does is extend uh 855 as i said for any cast and multicast which which the sixth floor working group has been looking at and so far i mean we have discussions and no objections so we i think we're pretty good there and then we did the ripple counter part in the one hand is to extend uh the reaper and wear leaf draft rfc now to inject any cast and multicast on top of unicast but also extend ripple itself because if the story the geoduck is operating non-storing mode we could effectively uh leverage that as well for multicast using basically a distribution uh set of set of tunnels using eight zero zero eight but across a collection of tunnels both just one so basically distributing a crosstal at the root which is what we are proposing with this map five so as you see out of those three points here the last two are really a constant for raw as opposed to six low six loaded is pretty much done with that f505 we need to look at the extension to 1910 and to 65.50"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "um so what happened to this draft during the atf 112 we we worked on cleaning the the description of the anycast support and improving the backward compatibility uh pretty much with in 1910 and also in the sixth law context the eda edac exchange had to carry the new flags that were introducing to say any customer multiples since then we we made uh we bumped the version to from two to four so we looked at uh some concerns some feedback we got from weissel actually so ysun one one plans to use this work and they're pressing us to deliver it um one issue they had was with the whole node multicastly scope group ffo2 com com1 and they did not want the nodes to have to register to it because in normal ipv6 this is implicit there was no text saying yes or no so we clarified that yes you don't need you do not need to register to this this is implicit um then we improve the description of uh how address protection works in that case for multicast and any caskets and we also align the description with the work which is proposed at best to redistribute eight five four five and now this new work multicast and any cast as well into bgp into a vpn um so the workforce for this group is uh manifold but mostly we have to look at mob five we manage the collision with ripple aodv right which is now four so we we have five um but now we consider whether it's okay to do the ingress replication has proposed and uh basically the draft also describes how you do you select one of the possible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "destinations for any cast and with this i'm out of my time so i won't describe much unless you tell me i have more time yeah so so i'll skip on this slide which gives you the the most interesting aspect of the document and we'll take questions basically my ask is for you alvaro and eric klein actually if you could work together on how we we do this document because it it makes sense for me to keep it as one because you specify both sides and now you have a complete story um sure i'll go over the thumbnail so i'm going to delegate that to our chairs to go talk to the six load chairs and then figure out um figure that out right whether we have two documents that depends on each other or one point to the other or whatever that is or we work on one if we work on one we need to figure out who's going to last call it who owns the decision uh et cetera but i think you know this is a working group uh thing so uh in essen dominica you can please talk to the six law chairs that would be great i will give eric klein a heads up anyways so that you know we're all aware uh on what's going on there you have talked about all this in sixth law right yes was there it was middle of the night for him so so but he was there and and it's not the first time right so you're not aware now as the sgs as they as she even if you delegate do you have a preference like do you want to see two documents coming asynchronously um do you think that there is a risk that one document misses an aspect and then the other has to correctly oh i don't have a preference um no again you know this depends on what is going to go into each of the two documents and how much you know related they have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "to be and whether they are two at the same time or two at different times uh it depends on the implementation and other statuses so no i don't have a preference on how you do it uh alvaro also in in six low if it was two documents it wasn't clear i think to six low that that other doctrine and six low actually fit their charter so that was one of the actual arguments for i think for for having it one document somewhere not in six low was that they weren't sure if they're even fit in sigflow uh right so again you know something that i think the the chairs in that case about their charter with eric you need to figure out if it's in charter or not um you know we have all kinds of documents that span multiple working groups all the time we do this in best in bgp and now even pim and other working groups where that happens all the time and we just agree on how the document is going to be processed um where it's you know usually last call in one place copied to the other one where we need to get consensus from both but there's a set of chairs that are going to own this so yeah the charter issue is an issue i'll i'll talk to eric about that but at the same time i'll keep you and s and dominique in the loop on that and and please talk to the six door chairs about it sure my hint is that the changes to six lower minor we are basically adding some flags to say any cast amount of cast the big work is on ripple side just like you know 9 10 90 10. so my end is probably raw is a better place but not just me okay okay thank you very much um we will discuss uh with the six law chairs uh we are running out of committee minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "so we are going to send the conclusions in the mailing list and trigger the corresponding threads and the meaning some other commands yeah i will definitely work with the six load chairs and sort that out no worries there is a comment in the chat atman rashid uh that is like are not both protocols dependent uh to each other i mean representing japan carson replace not okay some additional common questions uh michael barger issue a red issue in your slide but we can take the main list because we are out of time okay adnan do you want to say lots and comments um okay i think we can conclude the meeting if there is no additional comment questions okay thank you very much all have a nice day you hi very much your help thank you very much big thanks mike feels like we should have like a big button on the meat echo for the room that says we're really done now like it seems to figure out that we've left but i guess does that mean the chairs left"
  }
]
