[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "oh um for those who are remote we're gonna yes okay for those who are remote we're waiting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:14",
    "text": "okay we're gonna wait two minutes to see if we can get the uh the audio and the the video going and then we'll go ahead and get started is the should be okay testing one two three testing one two three testing one two three testing testing testing testing testing oh you're saying they can hear it so for those who are remote can you hear us the tears okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "okay so they're saying they can hear us fine okay um but it's just the second screen where maybe some wires for those who are remote can you see the slides being projected that we can see here okay so we're trying to get that fixed for those who are we know uh [Applause] it looks like it's being scratched right now i think maybe just a quarter i'm sharing i think it's just coming up is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "i'm sharing from this laptop but it's just not coming up there but it is coming up online right i don't know this this controls so right so what's i think what's happening is he's sharing the one that's on by the wall they need to see that one yeah you're seeing what's on the concept but what's interesting is that laptop oh there we go okay yeah it's just a setting here yep mike okay uh we're going to get started now so welcome everybody this is the rats session at iutf 114. i just a note that we're uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "well in terms of uh just a review of what the ib rules are for participation in itf i think everybody's familiar with this a few meeting tips as we get started so we have uh both in-person and online participants and so as a reminder to the in-person participants just to make sure that you're you know when you're using meet echo to make sure your mic and your video are muted and turned off while you're in the room and those who are participating remotely make sure that your your audio and video is off unless you're the one that's presenting information or speaking and use of a headset is strongly recommended here's a list of links to the various information that we'll be reviewing today um uh important most importantly is the uh you can follow along with the meeting materials just just follow the link for the rats materials and then we'll also be taking minutes we have a need for another a second notes taker uh so volunteer yes we've got jess oh we have jess okay great so jess and gary thank you very much for for those who can also help an augment it doesn't hurt you guys can look at the hedgehog it's live yeah so just follow that link at the bottom okay just as a reminder for a code of conduct essentially be respectful and courteous to everybody here um make sure your discussions are impersonal and uh uh focus on participating for the sort of broader good of the global internet and uh i encourage your participation thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so our agenda today is outlined here sorry if i could yeah sorry if i could just jump in folks are reporting from the remote that the mic is very very quiet so maybe a little louder or kind of a little closer i'm trying to eat it already or i there we go is this better away okay all right so let's do an agenda bash we actually have a fair bit of open mic time at the end um but uh based on the agenda here is there anything that we should have on the agenda that isn't okay we can deal with that all right so thanks for the heads up yeah all right so let's uh jump into the first presentation which is going to be eric [Music] white i'm gonna mess that up hey there i might go mask off so you can actually hear this all right what's up all right all right so go ahead into the slides it's just a brief update on event stream subscription uh hopefully the slides will appear back on the other screen i'll talk through them as we get going the first slide as this comes up is just the same thing we've shown in many ietf's for the last couple years that talks about the relationships of the giraffes the relationship between the architecture draft the relationship to the reference model draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "and the relationships between the um charge raft the subscription draft and and r4c now what's the slide's going to show when it comes up is that we're we have the architecture draft as you guys know going through various reviews and it's progressing well we have a dependency on chara and chara is now through to the rc editor's queue i think and that's moving fine next up is subscription draft and i think it's about to come up right now the subscription draft pretty much is ready to progress now that we have a stable architecture we have a stable eat draft and we're also basing it off subscriptions from the netcomp working group which is going right next door and what we're going to do now is just we need to write up some information in the security considerations text and then it's ready for working group last call because all the other parts i think are stable at this point and and that's pretty much a summary of where we're at there's not been a whole lot of progress as we've been waiting the closure of the dependent elements and so in the next months or so hopefully we'll get the security considerations right put out to everybody and then they can go through and do a working group last call review i hope i think that's where we're at so without any slides i think that was the summary of the subscription draft i can keep on moving unless anybody has any questions i don't think there's anything very controversial about it unless i'm missing something have we had any uh people review the draft previously that's how we got here we haven't had any real reviews in the last probably almost six months or so so uh certainly is very welcome to have as many reviews and many people jumping in as possible that'd be great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "go yeah so this is hank um yeah so the review i think most reviews have been done on the yang side of course because it's so um there are some tooling issues so if you see errors these are okay unless they are not okay anymore but i think we will establish this on the list twice that it's a local tool chain problem and not a problem with the actual young module so don't be scared by that um having said that um yes security considerations is one of the last open topics so to speak so maybe polishing and updating those we could trigger other reviews that are not security-centric though can we benefit if i triggered or is it one of the chairs please that would be great yeah exactly that's what i was hinting at perfect cool that would be awesome all right so in the interest of time because i know we're poking at slides i'm going to give the our 4c slides from memory basically our 4c is also progressing there have been a number of dialogues that have occurred for various areas one of the big things that's happened happening is outside of the working group and we have dave taylor who's in the room right now we're hoping to get some stable uh terminology out of the confidential compute consortium and we're hoping to go ahead and update the r4z using the terminology that's been discussed over in the confidential computing consortium we don't see a need to rush to get the closure until that's closed then we'll update the draft there so that's one of the things we've been trying to do with r4z second thing we've been trying to do with our foresee is continue dialogues with the eat draft on a couple of different topics this includes things like security level which has been sort"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "of going back and forth for a long time as people know following the group and uh one of the things that has happened which is a plus is uh we agreed uh i don't know how many months ago maybe four or five months ago at this point to include a couple different new hardware types in the draft and the next rewrite that matched to some of the uh cpe types that are relevant to some of the use cases driving the eat draft so we still have security level stuff open but we have been able to at least recognize that we need some more hardware types in the in the uh our forcey draft uh the last bit and uh i hopefully can bring up the slides for the last slide trying to get there um there is dialogue um going for what is the right way to integrate with eat i do think that we're awaiting some of the disposition on some of the questions in there we've proposed at least a skeleton for what it would take to put our 4z claims in each syntax and there was some stuff going in the last slide talking about what those syntaxes might look like but we're going to wait on the closure of some of the other larger questions with eat which i'm sure we'll hear about in future slides so with that said i think i've talked about the slides from memory i don't know if there's anything else people have since they're not on the screen here but open up for other questions if people have them so my question is have you gotten any substantive comments on this drive we've had a lot of comments early on it's revved a number of times early on in the last three months it's really big just been iterating on overlaps with the eat side so i'd say that there are some rel now we're there um i think there have been some substance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "comments as i mentioned we introduced uh or want to introduce some new stuff as it relates to hardware types there's been comments and iterations on stuff on the confidential compute side they haven't been actual debates over single word texts in the r4c but some of the base concepts have certainly been iterated in the last not months i see hank waiting here yeah so again this is saying um yeah that you mentioned the um confidential um computing consortium i think review from over there it would be very appreciated i think in the last half year some of the problem statements converged and as the cccc is relatively uh application fine i would say uh some feedback from that area uh would be nice but so yeah yeah but we have to go to them i assume and then just ask there and probably slide before this one is the one to end on because that was kind of what we were just talking about future integration based on you talked about comments we had the drafts that i'd look is uh to look for for substantive comments would be some claims and evidence and results threads and the profiles threads which are very relevant to how do we determine integration over time dave taylor so this is on my reading list i have not reviewed the latest document i think i reviewed it when it was like draft zero zero or something like that in previous ietf but um so this may be answered in there but i am one of the people that yes i will review this one and may in fact use it my question has to do with the use of uh profiles and what the current thinking is if you can summarize that so for example in teep teep defines a profile there because it has a relying party and the profile and teep says here's what the relying party needs in attestation results how does that interact with what might be in the air for si would you have a profile in here or would you say that this is a template for other profiles to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "it's a very good question the question on profiles is a slightly different perspective for how we took the definition of the claims versus let's say the way it does the definition of the claims we from the r4c standpoint take the perspective that the definitions of the claims will always be in attestation results and they should not require a profile for any variation in the meaning of the claims so we're hoping that where our forza is used they would be pretty much the same definitions as uh used in any use case with in other words they're not really varying their meanings based on the profile or so that you'll be able to pick up the claims in a particular profile and that's the the prerequisites for i guess the next slide which talks about design considerations they certainly can be picked up by profiles um and i have no problem with being picked up by profiles i'm kind of waiting to see where the profiles discussion comes before trying to adjust any terminology against that okay so i just want to make sure i understand the answer that you're saying the answer is uh still a bit flexible if needed but you see this is uh replacing the need for other profiles for people that use attestation results that you'd use this or some custom profile if this didn't work for you you wouldn't try to use them both together and sort of subclass this or something i think is your answer correctly um close i'd say that there's a valid overlap between the use cases of attestation results and i don't think the definitions of the trustworthiness claims are flexible if they're used they should probably mean the same things everywhere so it you're not really worrying about namespace or other kind of discussions because the definitions are fairly fixed and i see one question coming in from lawrence but that's that's my belief at this point with r4c yeah because a neat profile does a lot more than you specify which claims they are right there's a whole bunch of other axes that are part of the profile right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "and so is your intent to dictate those there because the other variation would be you take the claims out of this one and you use a different variation of like whether it supports the what detachable or whatever the term is or the other variations that are in the profile yeah so that's what i meant by templates it could be augmenting additional claims it could be changing any one of those other things without touching the claims yeah if you knew the slide previous i'll just close on this question as you can see when it's clear how profiles we're going to be very happy to add a section showing eating codings in that case to be very open to be used in profile so i see no conflict for any of these claims to be used as claims we're just waiting to see how profiles plays out before putting the text in yeah so the uh lawrence linblade um yeah so the bulk of the profile issues in eat don't really have to do with refinement or meaning of claims really claims shouldn't be varying very much at all and we would like the definitions of claims to be sharp and broadly understood so the profile really comes in comes in because of variability in sibor variability in choosing seaboard versus json variability in cosec because of all the algorithms that you can choose variability in jose because of all the variability there and the requirement or non-requirement where it does really apply to claims it's it's a a prohibition of claims or a requirement of claims and possibly a refinement of claims but really it's about a lot of the other stuff then then the actual semantics of a claim this is really an eat uh question rather than an or forcy question so i'm happy to defer it i do think that the meaning of a claim such as security level changes whether it's coming from an attester or endorser or lying party and there's still a namespace question of how do you interpret"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the object but uh but we're getting into eat here rather than no no actually i don't i mean i think ar uh 4rc also uh has variables uh syntax or encoding like you could encode uh uh i'm sorry i'm saying it wrong you could encode that in cbor or json or yang and all that so you could see you could secure it with different ways and all that right so that's just yeah i see the difference between coding and namespace and i'm asserting that the namespace is the variation here between different assertors so hi this is hank um just as a co-author i want to make one thing very clear these claims will never belong in evidence yes never belong in evidence so um i think that solves the problem we can write that into the text very explicitly whether the profiling would allow that in [Music] thank you very much [Music] did you right now there's two entries in the meeting materials and you want to make sure you pick one of these michael uploaded them yesterday it's just that the v21 have more information on it that we need it's the actual words to talk about so all right so uh let's see i guess since i'm speaking i'm allowed to take the mask off right okay now i can breathe uh all right so i'm talking about the rats architecture document while we're getting it up i'll just talk to the title slide which i'm delaying here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "whenever there's actually issues to discuss we had uh tuesday morning meetings and we had a long list of people that showed up at various types of meetings and stuff some of them are in the room some of them are remote a couple of them are co-authors but i think we probably had like 15 people not necessarily on the same meeting but collectively discussing the various issues that were specific to this document uh so we had issues and put requests that have changed okay here we go yeah that's the stuff i was just talking about you can see all the list of names on the left so we believe the design team being people that show up at the meetings to talk about the specific issues right is on the left there um that is of course not working group consensus that's confirmed on the list but this is the set of people that were involved in presenting what's the dot what was in the coming up with the text that's in there right now um all right so you can go to the next slide um this has already gone through ad review it's gone through one or two rounds with uh roman um among other things here are the things that have changed since 113 most of them are editorial things that including you know some actual wording suggestions from roman which we thought were great um the the uh non-text version now has the nice svg diagrams right so you have some pretty printed diagrams uh which you'll actually see two of those on the slides um we made some minor adjustments to the terminology in terms of the definitions of things to be more clear an example uh we changed integrity protection which was also a section of heading to the term conceptual message protection because it's not just about integrity those are examples of things right all those are minor editorial there's no technical differences there really other than maybe some clarifications to to say what we meant about those technical things so go on to the next slide okay so there's only one remaining issue in the 80 review before things going on gone okay and this is split between two slides because it's in discussion on two different diagrams and this is a long ways away from this mic so i need to be able to see one of these slides so i can uh point to stuff because there's some small print in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "diagram's there that people remote can see but not local yeah i think i can see that okay yeah that's probably out there all right so the uh little speech bubble there is uh michael is kind of how we think about things but everything else on the slide that's up above in italics and the diagram is literal in the document okay and so uh and i know roman is here right and so i'm going to kind of summarize this and roman can correct me because i'm trying to channel what roman said and then kind of our discussion about it right so the diagram there we see this is the uh passport model diagram and it shows an attestation result line coming down to an attester and then an attestation line going to the right over to the line party okay and roman looked at that and said well that looks like the attester does something with those attestation results for some definition does something right and wanted to have more discussion about that and so the text in italics is actually what the document says about that diagram okay so it says the tester does not consume the attestation result but might cache it okay in other words there might be a time delay between the line coming down the line going to the right where it's just an opaque blob that's cached in storage and then sent off in uh at an appropriate time uh the attester can then present the attestation result and possibly additional claims if that's encapsulated in some larger message right to a relying party but of course those additional claims are not in the attestation result the attestation result is signed can't be modified it's an opaque blob to the to the attester right it can which then compares its information against its own appraisal policy the attester may also present the same attestation result to other aligned parties right so it's an opaque blob he's got this ticket that he can kind of present just like a human hexa has a passport you can't modify your passport but you can go to one airport you can present it you can then go to the next airport you can present it and so on okay so that's as this picture is trying to describe okay that is uh cash there as an opaque blob and then you can show it when you try to get entry into uh various drawing parties okay so that was the intent of this text okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "um and what and so that's why the line isn't just a pass through it actually stops there because it can be cached can be modified that it can be cached and it can be then be represented to different relying parties over time as this opaque blob okay that's what we're trying to accomplish with this diagram and with this text okay so the question is um whether roman whether you think or anybody else in the working group thinks that additional text changes are necessary to convey that concept okay as we're trying to explain why that line terminates there with that text right there this is what what the current document says yeah yeah please go to the mic because our goal is that by the end of this meeting we want to be done with this document right so this is that's why i said i was going to take at least five minutes so because this slide and the wording on the next diagram is really the only thing to talk about yeah hi uh roman junior we're talking about my comments uh i i get that there's multiple semantics that we're talking about here my read of section four is that you that that text is primarily the statutory definition of the information flow i think perhaps a happy compromise of the text in section 5 in section 4 is not to change the text in section 5 which is talking about the caching behavior and the rest of it perhaps some text at the end of section 4 is to explicitly say this is about documenting the the the whatever producer and kind of consumer behavior that does not it is that's not intended to constrain the fact that i guess arbitrary rats elements can share stuff as long as they're not consumer considered production producers or consumers so if i understand right you're saying you have no problems with this section but there's a section that comes before this which i have on the screen right section four or whatever that you saying that one could be more clear would adding a forward reference to say see section 5 for more details of what the how of how it's used or well i maybe guess the first thing i guess i'm checking is my understanding correct that arbitrary rat's elements can pass the thing as long as they're not considered the producers of their"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "consumers because that's my read of what that architecture is in a sense yes in the same sense as a router right so just like routers pass packets without knowing what the payload is so yes and that's because um i mean that the reason i say yes that's talked about in the document where it says all the roles and the conveyance mechanisms are conceptual right you could have one of the other roles that send the intermediary in any of the lines here when you're actually designing a protocol right you can have some other role that is actually intermediary in between these lines here well that doesn't affect the architecture that's just a protocol instantiation it says oh yeah it kind of bounces off this one as a router kind of thing and so it doesn't preclude that it actually allows that elsewhere so that's why yes to your answer because it's consistent with other statements in the document that say that the conception of the message goes between these and here the tester is involved only in the conceptual diagrams because he's actually allowed to cache it and have multiple different line parties go out the right and so that's not showing the diagram because it will complicate it and that's what that text is that's uh that's the bullet right above the diagram that says yeah there could be actually multiple lines to the right for different relying parties at different times okay so let me try it again so i was operating under the depression that the the architecture elements of rats were defined by what they produce and consume so you can say what do you produce and consume and like then you understand what the what the thing is what i'm hearing is that there are additional communication semantics or behaviors of those boxes that do not necessarily con that they can be done by kind of everyone uh in a sense yes okay yeah so i guess perhaps but but you're right about the fact that uh the the def when you said about the definition part yeah that is absolutely correct it says you would not call it evidence if it's actually consumed by something other than the verifier right if it was actually consumed and parsed by uh a relying party or whatever it would never be called evidence and so in that sense yes you're exactly right in saying that the producing and consuming is part of the definition yeah yeah so again i'll go back to what i said i think the the fix for this is leave five as five is and then four i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "think i would i would benefit from additional language that says something the effect of you know consume or produce actually means this there's there's this definition and that's what we mean by that and then there are other ways in which they can be passed which is not produce and consume and that's in scope for all all the elements no attempt to constrain and see section five for specific ways in which you know some of that might occur okay that would work for me okay um yeah this is hank and i think roman just said it okay i agree okay i don't know if a note taker probably couldn't have captured that fast enough we'll probably have to go back to the recording to see if we can capture some of that that wording or whatever okay um so next slide now we're on the second diagram basically the same kind of comments in the second diagram so here's the this is the diagram for the background check model okay and ooh look you notice the pretty printed version of the of the diagrams here okay so here um you have the attester and you see the the evidence line goes over to their lying party and there's a little curvy thing that goes through it and then goes up to the verifier okay so this one is drawn a little bit differently and that's because the text below it have a little bit of different considerations it's not because it's not the case the relying party takes that and then presents it to different verifiers right so that concept just doesn't occur here so the the lines are a little bit different because the the the way things are maybe you know cached or whatever a little bit different so here's what the text says and this model and a tester conveys evidence to relying party which treats it as opaque and simply forwards it onto a verifier so in the sense it really is more like a router right it doesn't do anything with it it doesn't even say anything about caching right the verifier compares the evidence against its appraisal policy and returns an attestation result to the allowing party the relying party then compares the attestation result against its own appraisal policy and the resource access protocol that's the horizontal line there between the attest unlying party includes evidence rather than an attestation result that evidence is not processed by the relying party right so the main part is the first sentence and the end of the last one okay so here it really is just a just a pass through okay and so it terminates at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "transport layer but so the end-to-end connection just goes all the way through it and so that's why it kind of curves straight through there uh because it's more like um in the routing sense it's like a layer two termination wherever three just forwards right that'd be the analogy here yeah roman did you i guess same comment just to be very kind of explicit i think if you have the the appropriate caveat weasel words in section four that says again any rats rats architectural element it can opaquely transfer the things that it has to kind of other rats that would cover it as well and if you want to talk about additional semantics inside the box like caching the rest of it c section five yeah i mean it's kind of up to you whether you define it i mean the key thing for me was making it really clear in section four that that is not the statutory information flow that's you're defining by what's produced and consumed as long as you define those it works for me thanks okay gotcha so the summary that i'm hearing is section five is okay section four we explain and i'm going to kind of up level what you said details are in that that section four says this is part of the definitions and the definitions are based on producing and consuming and other rat's roles may be involved as part of the conveyance process for those okay sorry thomas harjona mit uh the um i i actually posted a comment on the chat the same question i think the word convey is too high level that i mean versus pass through because because you're saying the word convey and okay this one in particular uses the word forward right in the first bullet here because we don't use we use uh forward when we mean pass through here and so that one's the most i understand what this means but just for the new reader okay so just a quick process hi thomas for those who are here live if you can actually put yourselves on the queue and the media go so the people do we still state our name at the mic given that we have to do that probably doesn't matter yes we do yeah all right i think so i think that's it so go ahead then you can go forward i think that was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "the last slide so i think the last one is just any other question anything else that we missed because we believe that if we do this we are done and then it's past 80 i mean we do this and then roman pushes it on to the next stage as past 80 review right so because it's already gone through like multiple working group last calls and everything so all right thanks again yeah on the process finesse it's an 80 review so when we get the fixes here we'll merge it i'll put it into itf last call okay excellent thank you so by the way i'm not tracking the agenda all that tightly given that we had 50 minutes of pokemon so your your five minutes was actually 12 days but it was productive you know the chairs are not following the time in the agenda it's because we're making good progress okay i forget who was next so the uh the first slide which we're about to see uh describes the differences in eat drafts 13 and 14 since the last ietf so really four areas uh some document reorganization that i think should help make the document a little bit easier to digest the claims section which had like 20 plus claims in it now is divided into four so one section for the nonce the major section about claims about about the entity um then there is a section that are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "claims about the token for example profile is about the token not about the entity it tells you something about the token and then there's a section on including cryptographic keys in tokens a couple of the sections were moved to appendices so the core of the document now is is substantially shorter um these were some things about there were really good discussions earlier on about designing claims and about keys and [Music] endorsement and how that sets up so uh they're not really critically normative uh to reading the documents so they're in appendices now but they were good work and they didn't want to lose them um so that's the document organization uh then in terms of actual changes to the specification um uh for uh manifests and uh software evidence claims um those are plugable meaning you can put a lot of different formats in there um and uh i switched to uh co-app content identifiers rather than cbor tags because of the json support and other so sorry to interrupt your lines the remote folks are saying that we're having some difficulty seeing those slides yeah they're not fizzy they're not the meat yeah we're still trying to work uh meat echo uh is having some issues so ned is close okay i'm gonna keep going uh so that that was the you know the switch to uh co-op content types uh that seemed like a better solution overall um for uh the pluggable software evidence and manifests um so uh we added uh the spddx and cyclone dx manifest types uh so the ma the manifest claim you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "it can be a a coast width or a suit manifest now it can also be an spd-x or a cyclone dx this is also pluggable so it can be extended by other documents uh it's just it's open-ended we can't really pick a winner here on on manifest type so it's a general plugable thing and we have the specification for how to do spd-x and cyclone dx the measurement results which is just describing the results of measurements not the results of a verification that claim was reworked and it works a little better now it's more general can can represent measurements of things other than just software um then uh there was there is a uh a profile added this is kind of an example profile it's also a definition of a standard profile uh an eat profile specifically for uh eat devices eat constrained device eat on constrained devices so seabor i think that's the profile that most people are really looking at using for this so that that actually says things like use cbor uh uh no indefinite length encoding um use uh es 256 384 or 512 for the algorithm and some things like that so that i think that will help the profile issue a bit and give an example profile uh so that's the specification changes the cddl was improved you know we had a discussion in vienna about where to define claim set and dependency on uccs that's resolved by just putting a definition of claim set in an appendix in uh eat and saying that you know there's other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "definitions of this uh in other documents and you know they should all stay in sync it's not a controversial definition or a difficult one so i don't see any issue here i mean that was based on carsten's suggestion that it's fine to replicate cddl so then all definition of uccs is removed but there is a socket uh cddl socket into which uh other um heat formats can be plugged and then there's just a a lot of cddl improvements it's actually validating jason and sibor examples so the so the examples in the eat spec are all validated in the built document build process with the cddl tool and then there's just lots of wording improvements the profile section was the biggest one based on comments from uh elliot um i i want to note there that one of the things i really did there was make reference to what are almost profile sections in sibor and in cose i mean there's actually documents uh kose documents that are profiles i don't remember the thing but they actually call them as profile call themselves a profile document uh ned oh okay i see we switched switch screens here uh let's see now uh yeah i can't see my slides now and hank is in the queue that's a pocket dial i was just confused by there being no slides i was like maybe i should wait and then i forgot so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "brent and i were quickly exchanging on zulip cool zulu by the way um that the phrasing in the eat id says sw evidence can contain a suit manifest but a manifest cannot be evidence okay that sounds wrong yeah so uh so that's in it i mean that's not anything the eat sounds wrong not you but yes i i mean if you get that in the notes or file an issue just so i don't forget um and then there was a bunch of um yeah yeah go uh i wasn't quite finished with the previous slide uh but mostly just uh i think i think the profile thing was the main thing i wanted to mention here the rest of it is just uh um oh the last the last bullet there the relationship of evidence to attestation results basically can you know what it means to forward claims that are in evidence in attestation results you take a claim that's an evidence goes through the verifier and gets sent to the relying party and attestation results so there's a there's text in there that describes what that should mean and basically says you need to understand the verifiers policy to know what's going on there uh you can't just i mean it doesn't mean that that you can automatically trust those or or that they automatically mean something so um and that was again an outcome of discussions at um ietf113 okay next slide uh so uh this is this is the the work in the eq um i think the security considerations need some work uh comments on that please um uh i have a a fairly large set of comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "uh on uh the introduction and the abstract and some kind of higher level things that i haven't processed yet these are some of these are from uh elliot's review and from other other uh comments so i'm working through those um then there's a bunch of other little inconsistencies that that are working through um so the uh i think those are all straightforward uh i don't see any need for big discussion on those um then uh there's just two possible minor improvements that are kind of uh standing open right now um one is about the nonce uh right now it says nonces are absolutely required um but uh there's the time stamp based freshness that's in the rats architecture and it seems like each should accommodate that um it's probably not a difficult thing to do and that would make nonce optional if you're doing the time-based one so comment on that if you if you think that's a good thing or not or contribute a pr or not or or something like that and then the other one is since we have a standard uh profile in eat for seabor we might consider having a standard profile for jason i think that was another suggestion so i haven't made any attempts at writing that or or know what that would look like but uh that was a suggestion so that's it for now oh they're just leaving oh no okay no no no uh question on endorsements there was a lot of discussion on endorsements and can they be delivered through a tester's unsigned what was the disposition of that so i mean eat is kind of neutral to endorsements that was an open discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "[Music] are you talking specifically about security levels as an endorsement okay um i think i've said this before but but generally from the semiconductor manufacturer perspective in the armed ecosystem for uh for nowadays not just arm but attestations generally don't treat endorsements the way the tcg does so really i want to make sure that we have our terminology correct are you using endorsements the way the tcg is defining it because the way i understand it an endorsement of the tcg as defined as tcg and ned you actually posted this on the uh on the mailing list several months ago is essentially a certificate provided by the manufacturer that a relying party can use in its assessment of an attestation and its assessment of the secure the security insurance of an attester [Laughter] uh by the terminology i'm not really trying to be strict to one or another i'm just trying to figure out how do you deliver claims that really should not be generated by in a tester so i'm trying to find the logical way where things that can come from elsewhere are meaningfully delivered and that's the open question that i i didn't understand the closure of yeah so i i don't think i would call security the security level claim an endorsement i i haven't been thinking of it as an endorsement and i think there's yeah there were some email threads around this that didn't get settled um and i guess we should take those up again to to kind of really understand what endorsement means"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "um i mean i i i know i've definitely thought something about that but i've been focused on other details lately so it seems a pretty important question to me what endorsement means okay we need to move the queue and then all right just put it in the chat please um so yeah um gary i i understand from the eat point of view um that is true but as arm is a co-author of korim and they definitely do not treat endorsements like you just highlighted i would not give arm as an example here because i think um i'm definitely uses what includes at least the definition of endorsement from tcg another gpm from dice from mars from any kind of endorsement it goes with remote attestation in the world so um just highlighting that okay oh also um dave's maybe get that um this uh action brunch i actually wanted to come here because time-based freshness there are few interaction models um we uh planning on maybe an ayanna regis before it's a very fresh idea from yesterday and that might go into the uh reference interaction model so if you're doing nonce and time based you might also do epoch id and then you would be interoperable with this uh ayana iterations of how to do things and maybe dave has something to say for them okay so the chairs will be compiling a list of what we see as the open issues where we don't see uh closure and working group consensus so that we can help make chair decisions on that to help this document progress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "further we may hold an interim meeting soon depending on the the length of that it's probably likely to be able to help process this more quickly thank you i think hank's comment we can cover in the open like later because there may be another minute on that where i want to comment on that but i'm not going to do that now i got up here to say that uh i think the eat document other than the work in the queue or whatever um i think the document is okay with respect to their questions that have come up meaning i think there are things that not necessarily even endorsements right whether you can do endorsements in the eat format or not you don't have to change the original for each document if you were to say i'm going to do an endorsement in any format you can do that um so in other words i don't think that that is something that will in my opinion any results any changes here that's not why i got why i put in my name in the cube i put my aim in the key was to make the same point on a different topic one of the things that came up at the hackathon is something that lawrence and i talked about and we believe that the document is fine and just want to report that out to the rest of the document this had to do with the manifests when er lawrence talked about this he said it was a socket okay at the table we came up with a request to have a different type of format in the manifest where the manifest right now says it's the entire manifest not a reference to one and we said okay gosh it sure would be nice if you could have a reference to a manifest okay but we said this is a socket which means you can do that in an extension document which does not hold up the eat spec so i just want to report out that i think the eat spec is perfectly fine and we can do that in an extension so just wanted to report the discussion lawrence and i were having the rest of working group thanks thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:05",
    "text": "okay thomas hi can you hear me yes you can awesome okay eat media types um next please right okay i will okay so this is a document that lauren sank and i have put together to register a bunch of media attacks that are applicable to hit payloads and this is in a separate document from the spec because at the time we discussed the topic on the mailing list a few months ago now the fear was this would cause cope creep and delay it and and so we packed the definitions and the registration into this separate dock that has normative dependencies on both it and uccs without bloating those two and the main use case is uh for for for media types is you know usually so you need to carry some rats conceptual messages say your evidence or your attestation results using um some type agnostic rest api that is laid say on top of http or co-op and and you want your your clients and servers um endpoints uh to be able to correctly tag their payloads um and do do content negotiation and and what not and and you also want your brokers uh say your load balancers your api routers to do their job um uh without without having to snoop into uh l7 too much um you know and all this usual fun stuff and as you can see from the picture um it has a quite rich type system and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "uh basically this document um creates a new media type for each of the productions in the grammar so you have the naked naked claim claim set claim sets in a web token and the touch bundle these are the three main things and you have two times two those because each of them allows for either a sibor or or a json realization so we have six new media types in total uh next please next please because and i have a table yeah exactly with all the types and and the name so we have cot and jot so we have the two debs um and the two target claim sets all under uh the standards three with a type application and a nice subtype that starts with uh eat dash and all but all but the web tokens also have the plus json plus super suffix and cotton jots don't because jot is not plus json and we wanted symmetry um yeah next please right and and on top of that we also define a media type parameter uh for the um profile this is completely optional so certain apis may entirely disregard this existence and some other may instead want to to use make use of it for example as i said before um it can be used to pass the content um of the heat profile claim to the upper layer processors while while in transit right so to help the api routing infrastructure and more generally it it it gives you a scalable type system that fully mirrors the extensibility of it and i've added a few examples in the next few slides but we can skip over them they are basically example about content negotiation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "so um next please yeah here is a successful negotiation where the client is submitting some evidence for verification and yeah everything goes okay so um the the content type of the of the of the evidence is okay the um attestation results format are acceptable and therefore everything is finalized with with the 200 okay in another example that is in the next slide uh again we're yeah here we have a the same client submitting evidence for verification but this time the content content negotiation goes wrong so you have 415 support and media type report from the server side because the con the evidence is not in a supported format and the server is able to tell the client which which media types are acceptable for for the service and then a second example of failed negotiation in a in a in the slide that follows this one please ned if you could scroll yeah this one uh if the thing ends up in a 406 not acceptable because the um the client is requesting uh the format of the decision results to be of a certain profile and of a certain media type and that is not um [Music] compatible with the server side which can then reply and say can do that sorry i can only do this and and and and and fill the the accept header so it's it's really that simple um and so next slide please is i think is the ad option yeah yeah so uh the question is whether we the working group wants to adopt this thing or not um [Music] yeah so the question is for you for the floor so the question is has anybody reviewed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "the document or not authors so we'd like to have a couple reviews and then um we can solicit feedback on readiness for adoption on the mail list i have no objection to adoption i think it should be adopted um this thomas this is a question for you so we've uh at least in phyto alliance we've done interops with the existing media types using each and its cw in its cot form and i've recommended that i recommend it to the working group there that we stick to existing media types in the case that there are um uh content filtering middle boxes um now are you planning to put any recommendations in this document as to when these media types should be used in place of the existing cod jot and seabor media types that was not my intention i think they are just you know we we just uh create these entries in the in the registry so if if your api wants to use it then use it otherwise use whatever you think is better okay but i think if there's some existing implementations that if there's some existing implementations that uh that um maybe don't recognize these media types and uh and and a tester is producing then then that may fail so i think there may be some interoperability issues from that from that perspective uh i don't know gary because you know if you're using an api"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "you have to stick with the rules of that api you have to know uh what the you know your urls are what the media types are what uh what kind of you know interaction model you're you're supposed to to use when when talking to that server endpoint so i'm not i'm not sure it's it's the case that someone uh and a tester can just create um evidence wrap it in the media type and send it over to a a url uh and okay and the other reason that this will work you know yeah now understood thanks the other reason uh the other reason i recommended against it um though i didn't put this in writing was that there are content filtering mailboxes and particularly the dangerous ones that actually can intercept tls connections they may it might actually be better to disguise attestations in a more general media type have you thought about that so for instance if the media type is actually available to the middle box they may say oh this is an attestation media type and if it's uh and if it's um engaging in some money it is some under undesired unexpected behavior they may actually drop it even though the attestation might be very important to the media to the uh to the communication session that's an interesting consideration and i haven't thought about that but i think this will you know become apparent when we use it you know i we cannot say that it's gonna happen uh up front we we need experience and if we say that you know in some specific environments or deployments that is is the case then you know given based on the experience we can we can we can write something up and and amend this but uh for the time being i i'm not sure there's this there's sufficient evidence to to to actually um [Music] write this thing up in in the way that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "you put forward okay we can consider it for maybe later in this in the security council all right thank you very much cheers okay uh the teep working group um the t protocol now has a dependency on this document uh and that's because it defines a neat profile and it has to have a way of communicating that in you know content type and accept headers and so uh if uh this could be um expedited so that this could uh actually get to rfc before the t protocol right the t protocol i would say is not imminent it's stable but not imminent right then that would be ideal um if for some reason this was going to not be adopted or take a very long time we'd have to find some alternate approach in teep which would cause problems so that's why adopting this sooner or later is preferred from teep thank you okay so we need to confirm do a call for adoption on the mail list so you know we'll need several people not just one click support we need more we need more reviewers as well so there's a thing and other true stories but um um the working group called adoption is calling for review right so [Music] they're coincidental okay okay um okay this is quorum um right uh and we're back with it um can you can give me the next slide please thank you okay it's just this is just a refresher aquarium is concerned with uh providing this info and data model for describing the kinds of rats conceptual messages that um are known as endorsements and ref values so this is the junction between testation verifiers and the supply chain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "that creates the attester whose evidence these verifiers are supposed to verify right so if you look at the the yellow object there that's what column does and the and the red arrows the rest is completely out of scope of chrome in particular appraisal policies are not are not in scope so next please okay so we we we presented karim a couple of times previously and and we asked for adoption and the working group response was was pretty positive but for unfortunately ref values and endorsement we're not in scope of charter zero one and so we had to update the chartered for for expanding scope enough that supply chain provisioning was covered um [Music] next please so the good news is that now we have a main deliverable two standardized interoperable data formats to declare and convey endorsements and ref values and a related milestone too and thanks to everybody for the discussion and for the big part push for to get the update over the line thanks particularly to roman for being instrumental in this work uh so next please because in the meantime we have published zero three uh and that was a major revamp and and there was it was you know there was internal triggers but also that the cars uh was review was uh was uh very important for us to push us in in this direction um we also have open source tooling that is available to anyone who has to play with it um and it is of course a work in progress because the the the the format is a work in progress but we are starting to see uh protocol extensions based on quorum and and um and carl's tas uh which i think he's going to present next is the is the major example of that and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "we also have application profiles built on top of quorum like the psa endorsement spec and i think maybe ned can confirm that intel is also working on something similar so yeah obviously the authors would want to ask again for for adoption and um you know now that we are clear to go basically we are no impediment from from the former point of view um so i haven't reviewed this document before or since ief 113 but i reviewed it when hank and i talked about it before 113. and i think i made this comment i think then and that i'm being consistent that uh i support adoption for the purpose of reference values um this was previously not allowed by our charter or whatever and now it is i think and so in that sense i support adoption um i am a little bit skeptical given that i haven't read it that it's actually appropriate for use for endorsements okay where i think something that is eat-based is probably better for endorsements but i don't think that should affect its call for adoption okay but that's my constraint on the scope the reason that i have a difference there is that reference values the reference value provider is typically providing a set of reference values like the following claim values could be any of these whereas in an eat it's typically a single 10 that says the attester here is the value and for an endorsement i usually think of that as a singleton that says this device over there that i manufactured it has this single value and so for that i think an e-format is probably more appropriate but i have not reviewed the document to verify that right now so i just want to say i support adoption for use for reference value providers not necessarily regardless of whether it's used for endorsements i support it for reference value providers but endorsements is still a question of my mind thank you so uh hey this is not relating the the comment just highlighting that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "we had a review from microsoft azure internal people using dice and they were like yay so i i think that's a good sign so it would be good if they could provide that feedback and comment for support on the mail list right so that's another one that we need more reviewers so you know as cheers we look for at least three reviewers to provide feedback comment you know the usual questions of you know willing to review interoperability implementation and so on so we can do thank you oh you were fast thomas the reason why i was starting to run the clock is i thought you were gonna take 10 minutes we'll talk about the concise ta store spec next if you haven't read it which i'm guessing is probably most link is here um editors copies and that github repo and i did fork the the quorum guys work which was really good work to implement this so that's available in my repo depending on how the strap goes we'll see if i send a pr for considering to merge next oh actually one thing on that um it does include a command line tool where you can create structures from the specs so with the json template use that tool and you can play with it to a pretty good degree next slide what we're asking for is except this is a working group draft and proceed on standards track next um you know why did we do this russ and i have a mutual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "customer who's wanting to extend the ca to to consider more stuff at verification time and that stuff includes attestations there'll be a draft presented at lamps wednesday morning on kiata stations adding those to um to a few different cert request protocols when you step back and look at this we're really implementing a verifier and the inputs the verifiers are mini and varied and the trust anchors are often though fairly tightly used and putting them all in a great big pile and giving them lots of scope is kind of sad so we defined this to represent trust anchors with some limitations on the context so next slide so when we started out thinking about this we look first at the um phyto metadata syntax since they do key attestations if you look at that structure it's a dictionary with attestation roots under keys that are authenticator ids which they don't call that out as a constraint but it kind of functions as a constraint we saw the presentation of quorum at the last ietf thought there was a decent bit of overlap we set out to write this as a profile of korean but hit some issues that led us to do it as an extension so some of those issues are listed here the life cycle of tas and reference data is not necessarily the same the use cases for for trust tankers and our viewer broader than the use cases for core m and then where the keys would fall in a quorum structure is tied to co-mids and we didn't really see a good way to bend that to support non-commit use cases next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "so at the outermost level the structure is an array it's an array of ta stores which is the structure shown here which has an optional uh language type an optional store identity required environments then some constraints expressed as purposes and permitted or excluded claims and then the keys themselves next slide so the store identity was the last thing added to the spec and that came after talking to the quorum folks this was included to allow other artifacts in aquarium to reference a ta store so the structure we use here is straight from core m you can name a store instance within that array using a uuid or text and with an optional version next the environments piece attempts to the this is what's most roughly analogous to the phytoauthenticator id where we're in that case there was a very narrow target to use to look things up here it's fuzzier so we pulled in a definition from comed that's the environment map we pulled in a definition from co suid and that's the abbreviated squid tag and that's really just it's the concise swood tag definition with all the fields made optional except for one and then a free form text name so next in terms of constraints you know overt constraints the environments are kind of a constraint too we have this eku-like ta purpose where we list out different things you might verify with a trust anchor we do have a draft written for lamps that we didn't submit before this ietf that maps all of these to voids um you know if this progresses that'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "follow suit and there would likely need to be a registry for purpose values because this would need to be extensible next um here we have just permitted and excluded claim values and that's just using the definition straight from heat next slide and then keys this is kind of the meat and potatoes we require at least one trust anchor and then you can include ca certificates if you want the trust anchors we define three different formats a certificate a bear public key encoded as a subject public key info and an rfc 5914 trust anchor info structure we've gotten an off list comment that we should include json and cbor formatted keys too and that seems right to me so we'll add that i think just as a trust anchor expression not to the cas list which seems appropriate is just x 509 next slide as far as security mechanisms we inherit from core m which uses cose and we add the extra piece to verify using a trust banker that has the cot's purpose asserted obviously somewhere back down this line there has to be some out of band bootstrapping next slide things we left out include how to use this stuff for verification we have a draft written it's not yet complete next and actually on that point it's not all together clear where some of the stuff should go because this spec sits sort of at an intersection between rats and lamps so we'll see next slide as far as high level questions in my mind is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "the quorum extension the way forward had two voices on the list that that support doing this as a quorum extension i'm on the fence about how the environments are defined whether or not we could squeeze out some common identity characteristics from the co-mid and coast with instead of having the environment map and the abbreviated squid tag and then question similar questions around the constraints mechanisms do they adequately cover what we'd want to use to set up these limitations are they overkill should there be something extra and so forth that's all i had so except for questions so we've got two in the queue uh dave taylor thanks for presenting this i didn't know about this until uh the presentation here so very interesting um uh if i unders if i understand right you're actually configuring the trust anchors themselves in a in the receiver is that correct um so this is we have a need for this in more than just rats right so teep relies on configuring trust anchors suit reliant configuring trust anchors so my question is do you think that this work is actually specific to rats or is this a more generalizable thing and this gets to the answers to all the questions you have up there i think it's more general i don't know where the best forum for it is we chose here because quorum was the way that we chose to express this sure um just if it's not specific to rats i think we might actually reference and use this from teep and we might actually be able to reference and use it from suit for which one of the co-authors is a co-chair um and so um i don't know if rats is the best working group for this but i think it's very interesting work so that's why i'm asking these questions i may have a follow-up after kathleen yes i i was also unaware kathleen moriarty as a participant i was also unaware of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "the draft i should have been aware sorry i was not as tall as everybody else um now one thing so i would like to follow it wherever it winds up but um in terms of like coast with how is adoption of that is that the right choice well i mean this is early days for all of this stuff right that's why i want to raise it now so i think some consideration on what that format should be if there's really adoption of co-switch or not or is coswood falling to the side in favor of other formats that are starting to pick up in terms of adoption from a high level i want to get across the keys and some means of limiting where they fit right so you don't leave trust anchors wide open like web pki for example um we don't have as tight of a target as fido which is what we looked at and figuring out what the right environment expression and constraint expression is kind of the work to be done we took this shot um if i mean we don't want to target things that aren't used that way us down so i don't know i mean these are two questions i can't say that i could answer where should it be i don't know is that swit i think is is is is used but i don't know about coast guard sweat is used but i think and people who are at vendors i am not at a vendor i'm at center for internet security um it seems that other formats are picking up traction now and um this is it seems to be dying off but perhaps a survey of that would be useful so that's actually something my team might be able to help with well it gets it as a neutral entity at the question here could we could we carve out some common characteristics maybe that's what we do and then it could be used with a coast with or used with something else"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "but isn't overtly defined in terms of anything else right so i don't have any answers but i will offer i i have some interns that can help and we're at a neutral organization so if vendors want to talk to us and help us sort through what what formats are are being adopted we would be happy to compile that kathleen may be useful for you to list your organization you introduced yourself but you didn't see your organization i did say it center for internet security well the good news is is that if you're gonna call for adoption you said you want at least three reviewers so i think we just counted two and we already had one so we might be in good shape for reviewers not yet but i'm saying we have some interest to sustain well it gets to the question of scope and rats so um first a lot of things unfortunately this is hank um so first i saw the cd there i already saw i read the draft um i see the high synergy and reuse of types and i see how that helps your work so i'm absolutely fine this being an extension of column as uh speaking as a one of the authors of korean right because that is just there and reinventing that would be like weird and i'm happy that you find reuse in some of these structures so excellent thank you um be it close with or something else i'm pretty agnostic too i'm very involved as a contributor to spdx for two years now and uh they just recently for the 2.30 uh version uh put in a pointer to to it because pspdx is not really good at being small and so they were like okay if you want to have small uh file system references and such as uh characteristics you you that can point to there if you will go through this domestic build not interesting to you due to get bomb references and so uh yeah i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "um coast width is has its place in the iot realm it's definitely going to be the part of uh but um as spx matures and that is meaning 3.0 um there might be a concise s-bomb and we can look at that but that is here this is next year so so that is there that is very concise there's no better becomes more concise way to go into the fire system or anything else i'm happy to see it well on that point coast with just in the last week cleared its final hurdle and that working group is actually everyone pushed so that's done thank you by the way and then second clause seriously [Music] to the idea of the binding of this to kind of coast with is there this idea that we can have format agility and is that what you were thinking what kind of with regards to abstracting what you want to do to provide that flexibility there may be extensibility points we need to add here and there you know that the keys already came up that way and so they're probably a couple a couple of those but i also don't want to have extensibility everywhere because then it's i don't know yeah yeah all right well that's it thanks okay so uh i think what we can do is uh call for interest and topics i think there were some questions raised with applicability and and posts with carl so we can at least do that and as you said there were at least two organizations and individuals that were willing to think i don't know we were also raising your hand to help review and provide feedback and comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "okay and i'll post to the list no yeah and we will volunteer mechanically how does a call for interest lead to a call for adoption and so forth i mean is that a progression i've not seen call for interest before it's a progression yeah it's the first step and i'm doing it just because there was a question of you know if it's broader should it be in rats or not next up simon hi uh wave if you can't hear me yes excellent marvelous uh first slide please or next slide please okay so eat collections um is a proposal for a new an extension to the top level object and it's to use cases where there is no obvious or maybe varying uh top level signer so currently your your eat must start with a cwt wt dev a a signed thing um but the collection we came across various use cases where we don't necessarily have just um we came across various use cases in particular with our work on on competition computer architecture but also looking at things like which may have originally been based on searching where there is no not necessarily an obvious top level signer or it's something that can change um so looking at the um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "the search chain example because if you're trying to can if you're trying to build something from something like a dice chain the leaf or what should be that last signer which would need to encapsulate the other things can change or the number of items objects within in the token can change so your opportunity to take these down into sub mods um is is quite constrained and this is something we also ran across in arm cca because the nature of the assigner can change by by deployment next slide please i apologize for the echo i have no idea why let me try and toggle the audio is that any better i can't hear you now but you may be able to you wave if that's better we're actually fine simon we weren't hearing any okay sorry i was yeah okay when i try and take the audio out from me it takes me oh well okay i'm trying to apologize for the feedback i don't know quite what's happening is that any better i've just lowered the volume from the room okay because we can hear you fine here in the room okay okay because i apologize remotely um okay so this is uh this is to expand on that cc example one of the fun um one of the fun things we get to play with in arm is that our targets can be many and varied uh in architecture from sort of you know major major scale cloud servers down to quite small things so in looking at the design of of cca attestation essentially things came down initially to two logical parts of the token and these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "are formed as each independent um token and the the simplest form um which is you round trip to a hardware rot every time and get it and get something signed but then you're because we have different components uh in charge of this then what we would do is it was would pass um a hash of uh of one object to the other has a challenge and effectively get everything signed in that way um and that fits quite nicely with deb however if you're in a cloud server that's that model doesn't work very well you end up with nasty potential for bottlenecks so we wanted to cache the the platform key uh and sign it with a key that is created uh at various intervals uh in the workload uh object and then suddenly the whole format even though your your individual tokens um don't really change you your your whole format has to change because in there now you have a different top level signer and it has to go into a top one into in into a sub mod um and there are there's potentially other pieces of work in the future which might introduce additional tokens so this was this is kind of nasty because you then have lots more code in places you don't want lots more code whereas we actually wanted to be able to just take each of these process each of these um uh tokens uh independently uh in a reference design so instead of having to fully reformat the tokens if each of these um elements is is inside is that each each of these is an element in the collection they have no logical top-level signer but they have uh independent um uh integrity and they have a cross um element integrity then they can exist in the collection so next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "so the collection um format is is pretty straightforward it's a tagged map contains an optional um profile claim which enables you to identify the nature of the of the collection and then one or more entries and within those entries those are the your normal um cwt's deadliest etcetera um and they can have their tags to be meaningful within the profile and as i say the this only works uh if your security is is is custom defined so that the uh integrity of each of the elements can be identified and then take what your relationship is there and that can be either one-to-one or you know in chain style or one to one to many but we think this gives um a lot of flexibility for for this kind of scenario next slide please um so drafts series 0 went to working group i've had various comments back um they 0-1 went out addressing a few minor comments um and that had some um uh comments um more feedback uh which was in things like you know please emphasize the security considerations um and allowing for things like one plus member uh and that is it so i'm actually you know what i didn't comment is i would like to um pursue this for for adoption but i'm both interested in comments and review and that was it any comments or feedback"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:04",
    "text": "okay thomas you're in the queue can you hear me yes yep oh hey simon just to be good to to check this with you you would need a new uh media type as well right because this is top level indeed i have i have i wrote that down during your presentation okay cool cheers yeah so i've spent some time looking at this and just a couple of comments that i've made i'm not sure i made them publicly but i'll make them publicly now one of those is that you know i looked at whether eat sub mods or the deb could address the things the the issues that are listed here and i think they actually cannot so it did bring up some some shortcomings in the way you know the constructs that are are in the eat draft now um so from that point of view yeah there's some stuff that that uh eats not handling in terms of you know kind of more complicated uh nesting and and uh you know aggregation of tokens um one of the use cases that i understand here is uh that i think simon didn't go into is um kind of nested uh tokens where you know one token is kind of attesting to the to the next token um i think that's similar to dice the what the way the ice works i'm not deeply familiar with that but that was clearly something that is not handled well by eat sub mods um and i i to me there seemed like there was an interesting opportunity there to define some sort of new kind of sub mod or some some new kind of nesting scheme um for uh tokens that to sort of mirror what dice does and eat i didn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "want to do that and eat because we've got enough work and eat but um anyway that that's just a comment on on that uh there and i'm not really having a strong opinion one way or another or the other on this but just stating there's some clearly some some areas that eat is not addressing in this in this area so i have to admit i haven't been tracking to see how many reviewers we've had on this draft so show hands who's reviewed the document two okay anybody in the chat remote sorry okay yep okay we can do uh solicit more reviews and also see if there's interest and then we can talk about adoption thank you very much thanks simon well i i have to thank for for the second round of presenters for staying right on time because we now have 20 minutes of open mic okay caffeine kathleen moriarty i just wanted to mention that the attestation set draft is not dead uh somebody else is beginning to help work on it so there should be a new revision sometime between meetings attestation sets yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "okay so now i wanted to come back to the point that hank made earlier at the mic which came up with a hackathon about uh the topic here is uh freshness mechanisms in a registry okay so the context is that in the t protocol the t protocol is one that can accommodate multiple freshness mechanisms in other words whether you're going to use say the nonce claim or the time stamp claim right it can be negotiated so the protocol lets you actually negotiate that and then you use that with your eats or whatever whichever one it does and so anytime that you have capability negotiation you need an identifier to say what the thing is that you're negotiating okay so currently the posted version of the tea protocol spec defines a registry that has currently three values although you could argue whether that's the right number maybe show me up two for whatever that says uh nonce timestamp and epic id although epic id is not really well defined yet right so that's why you could argue maybe that one doesn't go in the registry yet okay i ended in an early review and said okay what page should we put this on the protocol registry okay because there isn't a page for like key parameters or whatever should they create another one and so that begged this question of is teep really the only protocol that might be negotiating precious mechanisms should this be on a tp page should it be on a rat's page and so if it should be on a rat's page that says here's any protocol that wants to negotiate once here's a registry to have identifiers in okay if that goes on a rat's page that means you probably want to mention this in a rats protocol document so right hank and i talked at the hackathon and says if we were going to propose this be a rat's registry what document would you put it in and hank said reference interaction models is probably the right place for it and so that's why we wanted to bring it up here and see what the working group thinks okay because if the word does not want to do this we'll do it in t but that seems to me like the wrong place and that moving this uh registry definition into the reference interaction document was what hank and i would prefer so we wanted the working group's feedback on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "that somebody had a thought about it um okay so since you're referencing it as a claim i can see the value in bringing them to rats um reference sorry yeah the freshness mechanism is you know how you do in say in a need for example do you use the what is it the iat or whatever it is it's the name of the claim for timestamp and nonce is the name of the claim for the nonce and so on it says which one of those am i going to be using right now you could argue which i will argue against to say you could put that as part of the eat profile okay and say you have one profile that uses timestamps and a different profile that uses um uh you know nonces and they're a required claim and two different profiles okay as opposed to a single profile where they're both in the optional claims you must use one or the other and the profile says that that's how e-profile is defined right now so you got to use one or the other or whatever uh based on whatever you negotiate but they're both optional because you gotta have one of them but neither of those mandatory right and this gets to lawrence's point that says maybe not shouldn't be mandatory that should be optional and i gave him a big thumbs up says yes because we can negotiate use of timestamp instead of that but the rationale to not put it in mandatory in the profile is that this is only one of many different axes in the profile we don't want to blow out and have an explosion of number of profiles because it varies by freshness mechanism and varies by this and various by that and so on that says really should be an orthogonal parameter and a different numbering space not part of the of the oid or uri that's the profile definition okay so if i were to summarize your your question is that the notion of freshness has more value than just inside of t it's the notion of we could bring it into rats the proposal just put it in the reference interaction models draft which i think is fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "so my suggestion would be to kick start that discussion in the mail list and work towards putting that as a proposal and just inserting it into the draft and uh you'll get feedback that way okay i just want to bring it up here to make sure nobody said that is a really bad idea that should stay out of scope for rats or whatever it sounds like there would be no objections that people are coming up with right now to doing that right we can put it on the list or whatever but it means we could go ahead and put it into the document as part of you know the document review process yeah because this will remove text out of the t protocol document enabling the t protocol document itself to progress faster through the review process so all right thanks uh working group chairs have been asked to remind everyone that the only exceptions to not wearing a mask in the room is if you are presenting so if you're up at the mic or you're sitting down keep a mask on this week thank you no no no no no you okay nothing okay i'll probably that's what i just said okay ah okay that makes sense i apologize yeah gary monday i'm going to comment back on dave and hank's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "earlier suggestion first off uh protocol right now with the e draft there are three freshness mechanisms defined there's the nonce there's the cti and there's the iat issued at time cti is um i think what they call it some sort of index so um the thing is is that if we define it with the rats there are other specifications like for instance fido device onboard specification that use cwt in more broader context than attestation so that's what i would be concerned about the other thing is when you talk about registries registries can be uh in theory extensible and the each spec i don't see any reason to expand beyond the three freshness mechanisms that are either so just uh just want to make sure that that understanding is coming okay lawrence and then hank yeah so uh oh so so the i i i don't have a strong opinion one way or the other but a few questions um uh one question is if i i didn't think that the number of freshness mechanisms was that open-ended like there isn't really more than a few two or three so why do we need a registry um okay um the other thing is um why are we why are we negotiating freshness mechanisms but not negotiating crypto algorithms or or something else okay so maybe so there's maybe a basic uh interaction model here like you know particularly with eat there's definitely no negotiation there like jose there's no negotiation there so but uh so okay so so you understand where i was going yeah so just to answer in the t protocol and negotiates both cypher suites and freshness mechanisms and the handshake"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "so one side says here's my supported set of freshness mechanisms often just one right and here's my set of cypher suites and then in the response it can then include an attestation payload which could be evidence or could be at the station results if it's in the uh passport model right okay so on the question of um are there additional ones besides those three and this gets the question of um the reference interaction models document is technically not eat specific and technically neither is the rat's architecture right and that is because it accommodates proprietary formats right at the t package on table we had people using a proprietary attestation format meaning sgx reports okay sgx reports don't use suit or each claims at all do they have a freshness mechanism sure it's a proprietary one that's existed for a long time right arm probably has one too that exists and they're already deployed attestation mechanism and so the nonce claim for example has a specific set of bite-sized ranges right it must be between i remember it was 8 and 64 bytes or something like that right so you can imagine someone that says well i've got a six byte one or a 60 you know a 72 byte one or whatever therefore it's not the same thing as what knots would be registered as because that means it not claim you could argue that that needs a different precious mechanism number in the registry and so somebody like a vendor like intel or arm should be allowed to register a freshest mechanism that's the one that they're already using okay so there might be three standard ones or whatever the number is two four and there could be vendor-specific ones for things that are already deployed that are in use right now so that's why it would be registry sorry just to jump the cube but briefly uh i think there is a bit of a negotiation uh thing for eat through profiles as thomas showed in his uh uh media types thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "hi this is hank um so maybe probably around closing remarks on this topic um the interaction models basically are flavors of these freshness um characteristics that we have and so that's why we put it in there because to differentiate those and i think again as uh they've already highlighted there are existing solutions that will benefit from classification like that and they can easily tailor it around them and uh yeah i heard that especially for the epoch id for example um any other comments issues nope totally a different topic open mic topic i'm not going there um we did not provide an update on the daa id but uh we just recently initiated by dave had an internal review around on comments on special on inconsistency in the text so that's why we did not uh provide an update today uh there's working on this and i think we are pretty close uh to getting a work first working group last call um but uh but let's find out okay we have to do this internal round we have to go to the list get get the questions out there you can uh look does it look fine to you and if that is somehow stable i think maybe before november we can you can call it but but uh again i wanted to just give a small update on dia was not worth a slide so yeah but we're working on this presumably the same on reference interaction models yeah okay that was the reference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:05",
    "text": "okay so um to recap from today uh the device subscription draft we'll do an early yankee review the um is it air force r4c draft you're waiting for closure on the heathcraft heat needed types we'll do a call for adoption same thing for the foreign draft um we'll do a call for pinterest on the ta stores tara and shoot the last one and then the chairs need to reconvene being to go through the remaining heat issues and see which ones are the gain factors that may or may not pull up the working class call to progress on the next step so um and then yuri and laura so if you can stick around since we're ending early carl um hi this is roman and i think we also said that if we needed one we would do an interim meeting right kathy yeah i think you were saying sorry if i wasn't clear okay i think with that we can adjourn and give you guys seven minutes back thank you thank you everyone on the architecture document our goal is to post it before the end of the week and get roman to act before the before we leave philadelphia"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:24",
    "text": "what's your name"
  }
]
