[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "[Music] okay welcome back to the continuation of the TSU WG Multi ring circus better known as the second session of the TSV WG working group meeting here in Prague your chairs are gory fair first West Eddie and myself David black gory and I are up here wes is still back in the back back of back in the u.s. somewhere this is the note well noted well it applies to you and this is the last chair slide for today unlike unlike how we started the week so this is item for agenda review after which we\u0027re going to bring it up let\u0027s see at least Georg is here from 3gpp2 talked about a little bit about 5g and how it relates to transport we then have a couple of SCTP drafts a couple of FC FEC update drafts and Michael Tilson has an individual draft about something that needs to be fixed in the UDP and cap of SC TPS it looks as he\u0027ll explain later any anything else any requests to bash the agenda that wasn\u0027t that the chairs will not interpret that as an agenda bashing request okay promise this will be as exciting as quick was if you were there however we still need a scribe to dribble text into the etherpad could anyone volunteer to put some text in I can keep an eye on correct yeah you\u0027re also speaking your your-your-your Europe at you\u0027re about half our agenda so we\u0027re all and any possibility doing it just a little bit of text we don\u0027t need to blow by blow we just need we we we we just need a reminder of what we\u0027ve what we did yeah and I\u0027ll happily keep an eye on it but it works so well last me last meeting with just somebody dribbling text on and we can fix it and then we have a meeting note and Dave could could you also dribble some text in okay Rome bless and David Olson thank you very much to both of you unlike Mary I don\u0027t have little stickers though I\u0027ll watch Java that\u0027s fine if we have not takers what you need the part great okay so there was a very interesting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:45",
    "text": "lunchtime session on Tuesday about 5g 3gpp in the IETF and Georg Meyer has been kind enough to come join us to tell us a little bit about to us all indications are for transport and how we can work together yeah thank you very much for having me here I I have no slides sorry for that we were just like talking today practically whether I should say something my message I hope is very simple I think the the whole area here the the work you\u0027re doing is a very positive example for how 3gpp and ITF work together to work on ECM I from my perspective never was a reason for any controversial or anything like that and when smoothly and the input we gave as well as the input you gave to 12 or 3gpp was always welcomed and worked in so I I have really at that point no clear view on how we will progress like what additional topics and additional requests we will have from 3gpp as I already said on Tuesday we are still building up the requirements on on the 5g system also on the protocol level we got the question during the Q\u0026A whether somebody in 3gpp wants to remove ECM from the 5g system I had a few talks with a few guys again now I\u0027m not aware of this I also did get an indicator also didn\u0027t get an indication that anybody else is immediately aware of that I think if anybody of you who has a concern or knows of any activities on that as I said I\u0027m also not a run expert so there might be activities or discussions in run that I\u0027m not aware of please come to me we can at least and identify much better whom to talk to I think from the perspective I have also from what I know from the CT groups we should go on with the ecn work as it is at the moment and I don\u0027t see any any danger in that respect but I said for further work we need to see if something comes up I will produce a few slides and come to the next meeting or whenever it\u0027s time to present issues of interest or we will have an expert here thank you Spencer yeah I just wanted to thank you for coming and talking to us it\u0027s always appreciated thank you it\u0027s out of pure self-interest so but we\u0027re working on stuff that people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:45",
    "text": "are interested in is fascinating let\u0027s see what comes in the end so thank you very much I want to echo Spencer\u0027s remarks you\u0027re more than welcome here at any time the future to talk about I think things things that are relevant and move things along visibly faster than we can get them done by by exchanging liaison statements absolutely thank you thank you okay next up we have a couple of SCTP drafts go get some slides here and let\u0027s see where\u0027s the clicker here we go we\u0027ve been a slight clicker for you I hooked you up this time the air the forward and back arrows go forward and back the first one is quick that\u0027s interesting no signal no signal that\u0027s not right you just need a slide black hole detection algorithm what\u0027s projecting a moment ago second song no no no no no it it got confused there we go we have a we have an hourglass over there and we should now have that\u0027s right yeah it it sometimes forgets what is what was supposed to be doing okay so the first document is working with document regarding an sctp specific way of doing network address translation and I think we have as a deadline the end of the year there have been no changes in the document what is still being to do is suggestion to split or to rearrange the content which is their into two parts one for implementers of nets and one relevant to implementers of the endpoint so that if you\u0027re only implementing one page one part then you only need you don\u0027t need to read the whole document and the our the other one is I think all the examples we are using there I are using ipv4 addresses you can do the same for ipv6 if you want but it was a request to show also that you can do a translation from v6 to before and vice versa so that will be adding an example or changing the examples it will be interesting to fit the v6 addresses into eighteen column it\u0027s 80 columns if that\u0027s your challenge then good luck and if there\u0027s more more challenges for the v6 thing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:47",
    "text": "then I think you need to push back and on the on the requirement to do v6 but let let\u0027s try it yes let\u0027s try to fit in and so you see what happens oh you need to change there yeah so the next one is a bit more interesting it is a document we have around for some time it covers aratus in RFC 4960 which is the current base back of SCTP and we have added since the last IETF a couple of issues so for the document structure is for each issue we have a separate section describing what has to change in RC 4960 so it is based basically over text new text and it has a textual description what the problem is and what the solution is so the issues we resolved is first reduction of the initial RTO so at the time we were writing RFC 4960 three seconds was the initial value now it\u0027s one second and we just adopt that from TCP if we are removing an ordering requirement of part second territory so it\u0027s stated in the document that one chunk has to be before the other in case you receive a date Chang where you don\u0027t support that stream and it doesn\u0027t matter which sequence it is we just removed that there was a problem in the abstract API a parameter was used there and not described so we won\u0027t be remove the parameter because it\u0027s not necessary for web RTC they wanted the the point is that they want to change over time the DHCP value and you can do that in the socket API but we are missing a statement and when our consequences of this change is that you might end up in a different queue you have to reset the congestion controller so we added a statement regarding that the ICMP handling which is described in in the document was inconsistent for ipv4 and ipv6 so some ipv4 packets were handled but some corresponding ipv6 packets were and we have removed that we added text to cover the heading of soft errors so you can now signal what\u0027s called in the host RFC soft errors to the application we clarified the congestion control a congestion window handling so it\u0027s you can only grow the congestion window if it\u0027s fully used in when you when you when you want to grow the congestion window and since you can\u0027t fragment data based on the congestion window the statement is you can over book by Attlee but by at most a packet or a chunk so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:47",
    "text": "that you can always fully use the congestion window so if you have two bytes left and the next message is 10 bytes then you can send 10 bytes and the same applies to zero with no probing well your window is so small that the next chunk is larger than that and you\u0027re allowed to send it to trigger this so this has been addressed we still have remaining issues we want and the authors of the document talked about this during this week how to resolve them so there is a C 32 the example code which uses short/long in engine we already had a problem where on some platforms long as 64-bit or some platforms long as whatever and so we we will go through explicit types where the type states how long this variable is this covers the stuff we still have one issue left from 4960 we have a hostname parameter where you can in the init are in it act you can put in a hostname parameter it\u0027s a fully qualified domain name and we meant we observed that during all the interrupt tests this parameter wasn\u0027t this the support of this parameter never has been successfully tested so we will deprecated this parameter in in the base document saying that it should not be used anymore and the supported address parameter will be used but the host name parameter must not be announced and when it\u0027s announced it should be it must be ignored so this helps in case you have an implementation supporting this stuff and kernel implementations don\u0027t support this parameter and they are always protected itself by not announcing this host name parameter type and the supported address types and the last thing is that there are three RFC is currently available updating RFC 4960 and that\u0027s RFC sixty ninety six which is adding a chunk flags registry so we will include that in the base document the action by an ax has already been taken but it\u0027s then documented in that thing we will put a reference to RFC as six three three five which updates the aya ini registration procedures for the port numbers and we will include our C\u0027s 1753 which adds a bit to the data chancara which is implemented by linux and freebsd for a long time so we then have a single document specifying the base protocol and that is basically what we want to address during let\u0027s say the next week\u0027s comments are still welcome and the overall protest while this document is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:47",
    "text": "that it\u0027s an informational RFC we want to protest published as an informational RFC and it will be the basis of another document the best document of RFC 4960 so we basically take ROC 4960 and then take the approved diff apply it and then run that through the IETF for publication one of the points Gauri wants to I think can you go back one slide sure a second which one there are two sides one side so these included RFC\u0027s just to remind everyone what\u0027s the standard status of these three documents the first and the last are proposed standard mm-hmm I guess I don\u0027t know about the middle one okay um okay so is there anything new in the list of features know him that have not previously been in the 4960 I mean apart from those three things no okay just checking as we move forward it\u0027s only verifications and yes okay are those three RFC\u0027s being included by by referencing them or by copying text the first one will be copy the text for the chunk flex registry the last one will be by adding the text for the ibid where we discuss the stuff and the middle one will be a reference okay yeah yeah six three three five is the revised Diana procedures for transport protocols its BCP yeah it\u0027s got this got the correct status and it\u0027s a change to the ANA procedures across the whole transport so that shouldn\u0027t be modified by this but this must then refer to this yeah normatively presumably the 4960 this document when that\u0027s all put together will also refer to 6335 and not be in text okay yes yeah you don\u0027t want to copy text there okay okay so and then the last point is once this document I mean we will go standard strike for that document and then the point is that at one point of time one might go for standard and not for proposed standard it was that question that was a suggestion okay so if you think this document is ready to go to full standard the best document not the best document yes then we have to check with our earlier directive if he\u0027s health if he\u0027s happy with this he\u0027ll be helpful the the main criteria here is that we don\u0027t add new features correct but we can change text we can remove features we can\u0027t clarify and the level to which we do that will be determined exactly by what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:48",
    "text": "this feature list is when we present it like just Spencer I think there\u0027s the end you keep what keep going keep going well I\u0027m saying you don\u0027t have to do anything Spencer at this moment because then we give you this list and we ask you if this list will still be valid for progressing the stun we\u0027re guessing the SCTP standard to full standard and that sounds like a fine plan to me I was standing up to agree with you but I wanted you to stop talking first okay okay any questions on the whole process any comments on the idea that we might be taking the revised document to full standard anyone think that we\u0027re missing something in SCTP and want to throw anything up Michael if I\u0027m a beer later Michael doesn\u0027t drink me adhere exactly okay it would be an easy offer right thanks Michael you can take the seat feck friend so while I\u0027m bringing up Vincent\u0027s slides a giveaway one of the little secrets to how we managed to run this working group our ad was impressed the more drafts we have we assign shepherds early so that we know for each draft who the responsible working group chair is and so for Vincent\u0027s two drafts I\u0027m gonna be the Shepherd and the UDP options raft that we\u0027ve recently adopted Gauri\u0027s Mary Shepherd so Vincent I think I\u0027ve got your slides and get them full screen here okay thank you for being the ship up yeah I will be fast this time because I don\u0027t have so much to say about it well thank you yes it\u0027s working well so the first few slides is about about its effect from extension documents well this one I made a few improvements to the documents first of all this is now working repeatin documents and I change a little bit the name of these documents previously there was this mansion with you that was suggesting that it could be a new version this is no longer than you version for sure no this is certainly not a new version she\u0027s just an extension of the same protocol and I wanted to reflect it in the new document name oh that\u0027s the first point then we received a few commands essentially from managers the uppity about wordings and essentially so this is the reason why I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:48",
    "text": "get rid of this convolutional adjective and we moved it and replace it with a sliding window so we are discussing an extension for sliding window cuts and this term sliding window reflects very well the way it\u0027s working so it makes sense really and then and this is probably main change in these documents I have added a new well I have added some text to introduce a fake frame the terminology the concepts the way it works so there was already a section free the previous version but this section free was just two lines long saying that okay there is no change this section so please go to go back to IFC 6363 and the production to this document was more about why do we want to extend this protocol so there was no way to and fake frame to understand what is the concept what is the architecture so far so I took advantage of this new version to add one new section 3 section our Dornier section 3 with some introduction into Victorian material so I hope that this time it will be clear that a newcomer to fake frame will be able to understand mostly what is about how it works and some terminology we will see that probably in the walking apply school so that\u0027s all for this first document next document is about sliding window I\u0027ll see if X Kim so having a new having an extension to fake frame for those codes without any sliding window every scheme wouldn\u0027t be meaningless this is why we also proposed this document once again this is a working document now once again we receive some meaningful feedback from maliciously for the same reason I get rid of conversion illogical replace it with sliding window I kept the Westham discussion at some point of time was we should change name of this effect scheme with something else well finally I decided to keep oil fee but now I make it clear that is a sliding window I\u0027ll see if X Kim so I added the sliding window in this extension of the acronym well that\u0027s a detail but can make sense then the main change technical change for this document is probably this one I know if it wasn\u0027t if I forgot to do that before I don\u0027t remember exactly how it came but there was no way to have multiple repair symbols pawtucket "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:48",
    "text": "previously so just to try for a little bit what I\u0027m talking about there is a way a mechanism for moving from an application packet rate safe to make it simple to symbols that are managed by the FEC codec symbols traditionally are much smaller than the application packet RTP packet for instance does good there are good reasons for that essentially because application packets can be a variable size so it makes sense to have smaller symbols so big packet will map will be mapped to a certain number of symbols a small packet will be mapped with singles and also Simo okay so there are good reasons for having this mapping and now if you do that the consequence is that the Reaper symbol will also be the size of the source symbols or four symbols worth small size repair symbol socks and therefore if you instantly for I think for being able to have multiple Reaper symbols per repair packet because it makes it will remove some overhead when transmitting repair packets instead of having multiple packets you will have only one only one UDP IP header only one either for the coding spot so what I\u0027ve what you can see in this figure is the resulting packet that will be in that case composed of three Reaper symbols and our single adder and of course on top of that a single UDP IP header there are few consequences if we want to do that essentially the fact that those three Rita symbols will be produced by you exactly the same and cutting window using a repair key which is a seat for the PNG that is easily deductible from the first version so the first repair key value will be for the first repair symbol and the next two repairs involves will have this value plus 1 and this value plus 2 so it\u0027s pretty easy we can manage this in an implementation very easily it\u0027s not a problem so that\u0027s the main change it\u0027s already in the document and then there was also another change there was a section that was empty called FEC code specification this is now completed and I also added the security considerations on the personal management considerations sexuals so it\u0027s pretty it\u0027s pretty close to the end so just well what are the next steps for the two internal drafts I would say that the fake frame extension document is almost done I have to proof checked the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:49",
    "text": "whole document but I think that for next ITF it will be done the sliding window else effects scheme documents well as in the rest very well of course I need to proofread it and I have one or maybe two technical questions what I\u0027m mentioning here and this slide is one of them I have to discuss a little bit with colleagues I have to do a few tests but well there is no big question behind well it\u0027s the question is should we take advantage of this document to add some well one or two more technical extensions or not those extensions are not very complexed the one I\u0027m mentioning here in this slide is about the possibility of having space versions of those equations so instead of having all nonzero coefficients being able to have some zero coefficients so there is a compromise when okay can Nathan sense I don\u0027t want to go too much into details can secure this offline and the other one is bad the field size or should we add one or two additional values those are technical questions I\u0027m planning to fly fight for next ITF otherwise well both documents are close to the end I would say questions comments just a comment I\u0027m very pleased to see that Mara Jose has taken a good close look at this and hoping that she\u0027ll be willing to take another good close look at working with last call time yeah yeah we I also hope that in the networking group we love few more people looking at it more carefully because it may make sense I already asked them convinced them there\u0027s no volunteer I would say Jay Carlin thank you for this work I\u0027m actually really excited to try that is there an implementation yes there\u0027s an implementation of both from extension on this IC fix scheme okay this is not open source but there\u0027s an implementation okay thank you you\u0027re welcome come on tell us more next time yeah unless anybody\u0027s got any comments apart from Jake but thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:52",
    "text": "my god last one okay oops that document is about encapsulating UDP over such a CDP over UDP and there is an hour see about that and this document provides some considerations so it so what is the scope of this document so the scope is to clarify a couple of things which we refer to SCTP over UDP you are ipv4 SCTP over UDP over ipv6 so it\u0027s really and kept relating SCTP directly over UDP it does not apply to SDP over details over UDP over ipv4 ipv6 which is used by web RTC so this is not related to web RTC it\u0027s only for encapsulating SDP over UDP to get through the legacy nuts from the document specifies the differences between our C\u0027s six nine five one which is the specification for IC over UDP and an upcoming this document and one and once this document starts as an internet draft this draft will just die so what is the status it describe what is not described in the RFC is how you handle [Music] that it describes the handling of embedded addresses in in in it and in attack choice and how you verify these packets so some of the packets you can\u0027t verify like the init packet so if you get a packet and you do updates of the of the port number you can\u0027t verify the verification tag and that\u0027s not clearly specified in the and the base RFC it\u0027s it tells you that you have to do this before doing but it doesn\u0027t make explicit that you don\u0027t do it if you can\u0027t do it and what has recently been added is a consideration for keeping netstat alive so this means that you reduce the heartbeat rate so SCTP will send periodically heartbeats and the default is 30 seconds which might be not short enough to keep net states live for UDP traffic so the suggestion is to reduce this to 15 seconds when you run this I see so which you may reduce the heartbeat interval thereby increasing the rate yes you increase the rate yeah and again this document is then the base of the base document there are any comments on this um I would happy to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:52",
    "text": "them except for that the document seems to be stable just so you make starting at this document seems to make sense I confirm that this is the approach and we will not adopt this document but we do consider the adoption of the document that will follow yes that\u0027s the plan so this document isn\u0027t is kept alive as an individual document and it will die and for those who haven\u0027t read it the document it replaces about five pages of content in law so this is a very small document so it\u0027s not worth publishing a separate bit to go with it we\u0027re just gonna replace the whole document yeah that was I mean that was actually suggested by an ad not to have an RFC in a smarter small Delta but just revised the document to have this stuff in a single document the question yeah Jake Holland I just had a question was the change on the timing to keep necessarily based on measurements and sir if this was addressed in that in the doc I haven\u0027t read it it sorry no it\u0027s not based on measurements it\u0027s just I looked up what other protocols do for keepalive packets and it\u0027s about 15 seconds what they use and the RFC for us I mean right now the RFC says for it for for heart beats is 30 seconds and the application can change it anyway so application content can control this and can do this but at might make sense to just let the STP stay take care of this in case of UPN comes to see us good thank you you probably should refer to the UDP usage guidelines which have I think the same numbering okay I\u0027ll go to that that\u0027s a good solution thank you any more comments or questions our master plan is to try and release you early from the meeting it\u0027s the more we have to discuss I\u0027ve got my guest you I don\u0027t think so I think we\u0027ve got a few reminders and requests though to prefer people to think about as they walk out okay so look since we\u0027re releasing you early maybe we can offer a little bit of homework or interesting reading too before the next I you have to have some discussion on TS b/w gene list number one we\u0027re looking for data on the le p HB candidates on how different diffserv code points might work in real networks if you\u0027re interested in this please do measurements or please talk about it on the list to help roll and progress that draft l4s architecture we\u0027d love people to read this and comment on it alpha s is important properly as we move forward l4 s architecture document is a thing to get right and CN n captain shim have been talked about a lot around the IETF this time and we said we do a working group last call soon please read these and finally the RFC 496 or a rata we just talked about if you use SCTP if you\u0027re interested in setp if you think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:52",
    "text": "you may use setp please read the list of errata because we intend to change the standard a little okay and with that I think we\u0027re done see you in whatever where are we going this Singapore well that might be fun join remotely if you\u0027re not coming but please contribute halfway around the world thank you just [Music] "
  }
]