[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:19",
    "text": "Okay. I got the top of the hour here. Should we kick in? Alright. We have a pretty full agenda. We only have an hour today we have taken recently to only having one hour meetings. This is the registration protocols extensions working group. I'm Jim Gal here at the front of the room and antoine sure is the big head in the corner. You c chairs for this group. So welcome everyone and and those online. And I know that there are some people who are definitely at a very difficult hour for them. So appreciate you taking time to join us and and be here today. Alright. So let's move on here. First up, of course, is our well Certainly, this is Thursday and has been said many times by time we get around Thursday, you've certainly seen this more than once. You hopefully read it more than once. So please do pay attention. You know, it it is important. We do have our own code of conduct, expected standards of behavior and requirements about the work that we do here. And you should make sure to take a good look at this and make sure that it you are aware of it and abiding by the principles. Next slide, of course is just a summary of our code of conduct guidelines. Please just a reminder, we you know, we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "those to treat each other with respect let's focus on the ideas and the work not on each other We work for a best engineering judgment all around. Looking for the best solution all around and contributing, you know, to our work in a positive way to the It up in a positive way. And certainly with each other, We are thankful to have the transcript real time scripting that's going on. So also a reminder to please speak slowly and please do make a point of saying your name when you first come to the microphone to speak. So that can also be captured in the transcript. And, of course, masks are required. Except when you're actually speaking at the microphone, you are permitted to drop your mask Usually, it's helpful there is a certain amount of mu that goes on when you're wearing a mask at the microphone. If you can speak loudly, you can get through all of that. But otherwise, please do make sure you have it on. And also keep it on If you need to, you're allowed to slip it down to drink something Okay. Any agenda bashing. The addendum has been up for some time. Slide deck went up yesterday If you downloaded the slide deck yesterday, a new version was uploaded today because one of the links in the slide deck was wrong. Thanks to Jim Gould for noticing that. Impressive that he caught that in looking through all the slides very carefully. But and now there you go. So we uploaded some new slides late this morning, yokohama time. So The slides are all the same except for the one link. So you don't urgently need a new slide deck now, but you may wanna it up later. This is this this outline here for the agendas pro form a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "This is what we've been using here for couple of years now. So the only thing that really changes is the last couple of presentations at the bottom. About potential new work. Okay. So moving into welcoming introductions, for a note scribe, Rick wilhelm helm has agreed to make some careful bullet point notes in the notes file. But as you have learned this week, if you have been around at all, Anyone can please contribute to the notes file. It's open as long as you're logged in, please do go check it out. A minimum, please, if you speak at the microphone, go back and check the notes and make sure that the point you were trying to make has been properly recorded. We really do need everyone here to help ourselves to get the right records going. We've seen the note well our document management is just about reminding people We are a small working group. We have a relatively small group of us who try to progress work and move it forward We really are dependent on all of us, always reading all documents but we appreciate that folks do that. And in addition, you know, document shepherd are important. Again, unfortunately, we have a limited set of people who do that. The document shepherd are really important to the work. Chairs depend on them too. To help us to evaluate comments during working group last call. Making sure that all issues have been covered as well as filling out the long eighteenth page questionnaire that the Is requires when you're going to submit a document for publication. So document shepherd are are an important part. And we thankful for everyone who helps us to get that done. Okay. Published Rf. Well, none this time, we have a lot that are very close being done. So I expect before this calendar year is out, will definitely see some publications."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "This calendar year, but none since November and the last idea. So moving into documents and working group last call, we have one at the moment and that the Rd reverse search capabilities document, This is kind of been a little bit of a long time coming, but it's there. We extended that last call to be three weeks long. Because we opened it over the It up meeting, so it doesn't end until after next week. Week from Monday is when that will end please do indicate your support or non objection to the document. You know, we we really do want to see some number of people ideally at least five to say that they have no objection to a document. And that can be a bit of a challenge. You know, it is again, we're just a small group of people. We really do depend on all of us to take a look at things and and make sure that everything meets with you know, good good product for the Internet at large. So thanks for that. Did want take a moment to mention the international email address document There's been quite some discussion going on in the mailing list. It's not actually a working group document. It's just important to call that out sitting in the Is q. It has been sitting there for some time. We had some issues that came up during Ie last call. Been quite a lot of discussion going on on the mailing list about all of those. Our area director is actually waiting for when and I as c chairs to send a note to say what the status of the document is Version eighteen was just recently published on this So all of the discussion that has happened within this working group on the mailing list in in principle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "the assertion with that version eighteen is that it addresses all of that open discussion and comes to a conclusion Honestly, we just have to confirm that So the chairs just own that responsibility at the moment. Have to catch up on all that, make sure that the changes really match everything. And then our area director will be able to release the document and it'll then move on and and be published. So That's where it's sitting and wanted to call it out. So that folks knew where that was. Okay. Before we get into a status of existing work, I guess thought I would take a moment and see if anyone has any questions or comments about anything up to this point not seeing anyone jump up out of their chair you're putting their hand up. So let's move into status of existing work This is also gonna be a short thing here. We have everybody has sixty seconds or less. Do say something. Does anybody wanna say anything about the redacted fields in Rd and and it's status I don't think Jim Gold is with us Jody, I know that you're out there. Oh, Jim is with us. Please, Jim. Go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Okay. Good. Yeah. Yeah. We feel like this document is plate and ready to go and requested for me on the list for working group. Last call. Sure. That's pretty much it. No. Thanks, Jim. And that's a heads up to everyone here. You can look for that. One of the other things is given that we are a small group. We do tend to do one working group last call at a time. So that we're not burden people with too much do all at once."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "Again, just being sensitive to the size of our group and the people doing things forward. So thanks for that, Jim. I'll... Oh, anton antoine, please go ahead. Yeah. Well, you know, when we know this is going into working plus go, within I think week, something like that, for or two weeks. If people have still have issues with this document it's advice, of course, to to give those remarks now so that we have a stable document during work last choke. It's just a heads up for people review the draft now and we will have less work during working good last school and have support. Yes, excellent advice. Feel free to read now. Don't wait for the working group last call. Murray, please go ahead. Hi. When do you think this W gl might happen. As soon as we get out of the one... The rd app reverse search. Mh. So which ends a week from Monday and as long as nothing happens there. Then we'll issue this working group last call after that. Okay. So that one's in... Oh, you gonna issue that one. I'm just... I have trying figure out where I'm going to be during the parts of April while you're gonna need me to move things along. So That one's gonna come before about the seventeenth. Okay. The first one's thanks. No problem. But the simple registration reporting I take ownership of that. Folks who have been paying attention. Will know that that has actually expired part of that though, I'll speak a little bit for the registration data dictionary. Since that one got pulled back, the registration data dictionary, you recall it was in working group last call. It was decided to pull it back to do some work on it. And what we're gonna do is coordinate our efforts there The registration reporting has two major parts One is in fact, actually a data dictionary itself. As well as the second thing which is creating two sets of regis at Ia."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "And what I wanna do in the registration reporting document is all the data dictionary part out and instead, you know let it be part of the registration data dictionary document. And so leverage that instead. So that we don't have two of those. Seems like the right thing to do at this point. That will come along eventually here. But nothing urgent we have a number of other documents in front of that. Federated authentication for rd and open Id Scott, would you like to say anything about that? Please go ahead. Thank you, Jim. Scott Hall back here. We went through a working group last call a few months ago, got some very good feedback that you know cost us to pause and not progress the document at that time. But all of that feedback has been resolved and addressed and I feel that this document too is ready to go through another working group last call. Okay. Thank you, Scott. And that's a heads up to folks. You know, please. You don't have to wait for working group last call to give it a final read. You know, do that now and and get in front of it. So you can vote quickly when the working group last call comes around. As San Antoine said, you know, better to get the comments and now than during working with last call. If we can't Registration data dictionary is the last there. I know that Heather and Steve are with us bain, you're you're out there, Would you like to say anything about this document or is what I said enough Has the document shepherd? Go ahead. No. Not really anything to say I've been pure discussion in the document and mostly my feeling is that comments have been addressed. But I didn't notice a lot of opinions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Input about the documents. So if The group has something to say to it. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate that. Okay. And with that, we will move into existing work discussions. We have some presentations which and I'm going to turn this over to Antoine to run us through the rest of the meeting. And over you. Yes. So the bit confusing, Jim are you going to put up the slice or If you would like, I can do that. Yeah. Okay. So go to the next one. Right? So we will we have a few presentations First one is from Tom Harrison is remote. So if you can put up down slides. Then we will hand it over to Tom tom are you're ready? Go ahead, Tom. If you're speaking, we can't hear you. Okay. You can hear me? Yes. Yes. We can. Okay. Good. Okay. Thanks. Next slide. So to recap briefly, this is a document that defines new search and search functionality for ip ranges, Sse and domains. The first part is search by handle and name for Ip and s objects. The second part is a new link relation for getting the most objects for an Ip range or and wrench. Or reverse. And the last part is adapting the reverse search document. So that it can be used to support Ip addresses and."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "The audio here is that an service operator who implements functionality we'll get to paris with the existing who is service or at least that's the case for all the Are services today? And that will help with transitioning clients off who is on to up. And potentially with duplication of the service in future. Next slide. Since this was lost covid by if once you've seen there been a few changes. The first is to The previous version of the document was in terms of our. But I aren't the only service operators who have incident number registered or internet number of resource. Services. So instead it's now in terms of R to cover cases like national. One issue is though that we still need to change the document title to account for that to to make it consistent all the way throughout. Another set of changes is that documents been updated to match the latest reverse search document. So the man change out of that is a bunch of extra registry entries. For the for the various Ip s and reverse searches. And the last part is marking this document is updating the Http usage and query in response. Json some documents. Because the way it uses the extension identifier is not in keeping with the requirements from the sorts that sounds like a reasonable way to flag to people about that it's not that it's not doing what those documents require in this space. slide. Next We did get some feedback on the last version of the document from Mario. Thanks, Mario. There are a number of text in editorial updates. Most of those are un problematic. There are a couple we have some concerns about, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "that should be really straightforward to fix. So we'll just check this the list. There was a comment to have the document in terms of R instead of In r registry. But per the last slide, the idea here is to make this more generic to cover to cover more use cases basically. So it should be that if we update the document title, gets rid of the inconsistency, which may be causing some confusion here and hopefully that will address this. The last part is the way that the document works with more specific the more specific responses. Is it leaves it up to the server to implement however it like, so it doesn't make any statements about what the links should look like or anything like that. The problem is that that means that Our service will essentially end up squat on part of the Space. So not that this is complicated to fix. We just need to reserve off segment under which server operators can can put those more specific links. So that should... Yeah. That should look after that part. Oh, next look. Tom, you have a question in the queue. Do you want to take it now or wait till the end? Oh, yes, sure. Yep. Yeah. I was waiting for that too. So questions, Scott go ahead. Thank you, Anton john. Thank you, Jim. This this is Scott Hong, but Tom back on Slide three, I noticed that you're recommending an update to several full standard Rf c's because this document is doing something that you described as non standard Could you... I apologize. I have not the draft in detail, of course, what it means I do have an opinion. Right? But no. No. At all seriousness. Could you please talk about that a little bit more? What is it doing? And why is it doing it that way? So The main thing is that with a strict rating of those documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:05",
    "text": "you would need to... Like, all new path segments would need to begin with the extension on an extension identifier here, I think is R search was something like that. And it will be updated to to be something like In our registry search. But the what we want to avoid here is having having urls like In our registry search underscore Ip for searching for such an Ip doing the Ip searches rather and and similarly for doing that doing that s searches. So The audio is to make them consistent with the other core rd object types as far as these searches go. Those the euros will simply be slash I forget the exact what the exact segment will look like. But something like slash... Probably slash ips actually. And even though this isn't in keeping with the strict rating of those documents, it's more consistent with how those base specifications I put together. So that that's the rationale. I'm not sure updating those documents is the best way of indicating non conform with that or if there's some other way to do it. It seems like a a reasonable stab at the. Question or perhaps remark from Andy and the go ahead andy in. So when we originally created this And I don't know if this is said anywhere, but when you do an extension that's an It etf extension, that whole thing about putting a prefix in there. Really necessary. And that's because the It etf knows how to avoid collisions where people just doing extensions in the wild don't. So that... I I don't think for that reason, you need to update this document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "These documents. The... There isn't a one slight other thing though. I believe nine zero eight three or nine zero eight two. I can't remember which one. Actually says R r, not In r. So that there's that. I don't I don't know if you need to update those documents, but maybe there should be some sort of a statement somewhere that says by the way, these things can work for R's as well. There's there's no reason why ninety eight nine zero eight two and nine zero three. Don't work for I r's, but that was just the terminology we use. Thanks. Okay. Murray. Go ahead. Yeah. On the question of whether you should do in updates or not. We interpret you know, update seventy four eighty to mean someone implementing seventy four eighty had better come and read this document as well because it's some kind of important extension like that. If you don't mean that, then updates is the wrong mechanism isn't to use. But I hear what you're trying to do on it I'm happy to work with you to find some way to create the point that you're talking about without if you do it as updates, then by the time it gets to us, someone like not actually updating the original one in that way. So I'll I can help you figure something. Okay. So just as far as next steps go. We've reached out to the various celebration looking for import from them, where you haven't heard anything from them. Though And yeah. More implementation work would be Thank you. Okay. Any questions for Tom? If not then. I have a question. Don't I've been reading this draft and one of my particular interest was in the deli relations sections. First to comment, to me it was been clear what you meant with operator?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "I first thought that what would be declined, I think in terminology, it would be the server operator. Who you to know with hierarchy, you can you can request. But I have a question about this hierarchy because when I when I query an Date azure and they are database what if you call it. When I do a query, I don't know where in the arctic I am. So in order to get for example, what I'm mostly interested in is the of the hierarchy, which is usually the allegation and the the the one responsible for example for creating rules. And sometimes I'm interested in the assignment of Ip space, so that's the... Mostly the bottom, which is our assignments. So I was wondering have you thought about another query where I could immediately get to the top the bottom of the hierarchy. I hadn't thought about that. But we can think that makes sense to add Yep. Register right? Course you didn't... I see you didn't get input it from other registry. I use write and they also include, for example, the I locations. In their database. So you don't want to go as far as that. But interested in, you know, the Allocations. Because, that gives an impression of who is responsible for this space? And the lowest one would probably be the assignment, so you can actually look at, you know, who's using this space. So those are the two queries that No. It's in the document already. But in order to get that, you would do... Have to do searches."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "To get to bottom. Yes. Sure Yep. Yeah. I don't see an issue with Alan san. Okay. I'll I'll I'll post the message too this and to to do make that. The second question I have is So this is for at the moment querying for unknown objects and I the kits. So or Ip objects depending on the registry. But but Ip ips space in Space. Right? There also some things. I think more specifics is applied objects as well. Okay. So the main object is in there well. I was wondering if you considered it to be extended also to R. Ranking registry objects. Since they are sometimes in or our databases as well. For example, in Bright, when a query space, I get Ra jake's back as well. Or do you consider that to be a separate documents. I think that would be a separate document. There was a document this... I think it was it'll be about ten years ago. Now I think the people that some people did think maybe Andy was involved in that. For bringing those objects into auto up. So I think if that happen that will be a separate document that's it's not one of our immediate goals in this place. Yeah. We course, you know, I when you're talking about As so objects. Already some routing information in there. So So I was wondering, if you put this in a separate document, you will have two documents where one of it is halfway covering the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "in event writing registry space and you document with this specific routing registry space. Yeah. That's true. It it's... Yeah. It's definitely something we can think it branch. Yes, sir. Yep. Thanks. Okay. That was me then j. Go ahead. I just deep saying from Erin. So... Yeah And... That's a very good point you made about Ir objects. I think our focus here is to bring ada parity with who is? Non Irr who is if that makes sense, because as Tom mentioned, I think in the first slide, the goal is at some point think of it as two replacement for port forty three. Services what we have. So... Yeah. So if I, we need to do those use cases probably we could think sort of in a separate document or a separate set of use cases. So but we truly wanted to keep the focus on Hey. What are the gaps vis vis the current who is service, which for our is right now ninety percent for traffic. So Thanks. You So if there are no more question then Thank you, tom. And Jim, if you can put it prescribe again. I think the next one is going to be Mario indeed with. Json contact documents. So Mario go ahead, please. Okay. And can you hear me? Yep. Yeah. Yes. I requested this a lots of time just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "to invite working group, members to resume the discussion now and then later on the least about two open topics of this document which we still reached the the consensus on So next slide please The first topic is about how to deduct just contact the Ui property adapter just a brief recall of the discussion following the discussion on the list about the implication between the the the James asking me and the other code or to removal the mandatory constraint on the Property in view of a... It's a user and reduction just container I put the question on to the collect to the correct to members, then they decided to keep the Id property mandatory because in the opinion a unique identify is needed to like similarly to the form name property for b So... But but never less in the european opinion Ui can be omit outside the collects context. So just Remains a mandatory property it's about issue should be ui and but for compatibility with six three fifty"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "it may also be a tech in in the case that where are you who you use the Ui and format this should be your in the Eu Id space. Next slide, please. So in my opinion the the the possible option to are the following. So by dev meter in the same way as the former my name property for card making your optional in adapt. Of overriding the the technical constraint or the contact page and they're by removal method or using Id values they prevent from correlation randomly generated or near ids or anything else in that Missed. This is the first point. The other point next I please is about Jc to just contact transition. So Andy as proposed to three other shown this means the clients use just the card parameter to receive just contact and several return both Jak and just content and the transition is ended. Compared to the current approach. This means that obviously, there is a a a lower lower implementation effort for both clients and service, but I think that there are some drawbacks contact data duplicated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "Therefore such responses could be remarkably much bigger than then it it could be by using only just contact or or be god. There are some implication or requests such mapping arrest acting because obviously, because of reduction yet to duplicate or maybe today the property is that deducted then there are some implication on them map in between on the search property of there such properties. And last is can be broken since the service decided that on your own on their own went to stop returning in. So these are the two points that we need to to discuss to reach the consensus because I would like to go to every instruction for from the working room members to before publishing the new version of this document. So I don't know if we want to resume the discussion here on this on one at this point and then later on the on the mailing list. Okay. I already see people joining the queue Do do you have more slides mario? No. Okay. So this is again we have three minutes left for questions then. So go ahead Yeah. So I'm a little confused by the Bullet point lower implementation effort for both clients and servers, which which approach it? Discussing the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "the approach that's currently in the draft or other approach. There is one approach the current approach do it is to return or just contact or got. Your proposal is to So the the just contact is treated as an extension so mainly as a response tension. So I think that obviously, the the the main the the main a reason why it took to to choose to opt for your approach is the lower implementation obviously is it's easier. It's easier than the current approach the current proposal. But I see those drawbacks in the in the in in your approach. So I I'm open open to every approach. So but I would like to to know what kind of of approach approach the the working group preferred the most. So just to move the forward the document. To Yeah. I mean, I agree. I I would like to hear what other people think. I... The point I go ahead, Mario. Yeah. I I provide the the pros and cons of each approach. So. In my opinion, the best is difficult approach, but I open to any other proposal to improve the the document obviously. So Okay. So so the the point I was trying to make on the mailing list and maybe it didn't come across very well, was that the that a client"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "is once you've gone to a client has gone to the... The implementation work understanding Js contact. They're almost always going to send both parameters saying I want both. And then they'll just deal with it when they get written response. So this really... I I don't think there's query parameters actually help at all. That's the point I was trying to say because once a client implements that, they're always ask for both because they have no idea of a... Ahead of time whether the server supports both or not. And since there's not gonna be a flag day on the internet, for supporting Js contact, and maybe we wanna do that. I don't know. But that... That's that's the option they're gonna have to to go with. Does that makes sense. And for a transition period, you're gonna have servers supporting doing both way. If there is a transition period. Yeah. But I don't think that the clients will receive an f an arrow. They they receive a response. Probably, they they don't... They will not receive the the the dots and the format they expect. But simply when you specify a parameter that is not what you that parameter is is ignored by this december. So there there is always a case that the possibility there that you specify parameter, for example, you specify the they just the jazz card parameter. But but you don't need to specify that because the the transition is has being completed. So at the beginning, you who you know that the service"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "is able to support the jazz content because it it these it is possible in the com performance array. So I think that the the the top approaches are I closed, but maybe I I can see that I can say that the second approach is consists in applying the the first... Your approach twice. Because you add two as exactly you in in the mail on on the middle list you need to support one meter for period and then to that that parameter and in in europe airport on your approach, these happen once in the current approach twice because at the first faster you need to support the Js card And then you need to support Jc do Mario We are mario. It. Okay. So perhaps we can continue this discussion on the mailing list. Okay. We have two questions left and we're already too minutes over time. So James Jim perhaps you can post your questions, and then Mario can answer at once. So James Go. Yeah I'll be very quick. On the question around Ui, my preference would be by removal and then really glad to hear that your id will not be mandatory. Just be support downstream protocols like that or that. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:05",
    "text": "Thanks Mark. I'm fine. I'm not really got a question, but more of an observation If we're going to look at this Like Hyundai suggestion, I think it'd be good idea to try and get some objective data detail about these problems but man has body identified actually I or know. So do we really have to whatever the cost of an increased data as the are going be push implications and the base data. Let's try and get some detail on that. Probably just big walk hunch. Okay. Thank you, Jim. Mario, if you don't have any urgent, responses, then let's discuss this... I And and I would like to say that the Ie ai to facilitate the discussion again on the main list, I will post again, topics so we can move on on new posts. So thank you, Mario. So we will continue that on the mailing due to time, we have to continue because we have two presentations left and I want to give them the same attention as as you mario. So thank you very much for your presentation. That was the existing work. And we have two presentation on new york new work First one is ver an Ardent by Daniel P and I he then already ready. So Jim, if you can bring up dance presentation Then they'll go ahead. Okay? Thank you. Daniel K. And Go ahead. Yeah. We're gonna talk about rd version. You can go to the next slide, please. Okay. Prior to today, I e t f one fourteen, if I'm not mistaken, we discussed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the original extension mechanism for Our and we agreed on two things at that time. First, that mechanism would not formally support any type of version. And second, that version is important and should be supported somehow. And so we have the version extension that came out of that initial discussion. Which will discuss further today. Next chart, please. So it is a extension that will be used to version other extensions. It will provide modified form of semantic version, which is already widely used in industry, typically consisting of the three point version scheme we need only concern ourselves with two points major and a minor. Major being used to signal breaking changes to a extension from one iteration to the next changes that would break backwards compatibility and minor version used to signal non breaking changes to spec for an extension. And for the example there, one point o. The next iteration included breaking changes, you would expect to see it released as a two point o. Otherwise, it would be released as a one point one. The objectives of this. On the server side, server can potentially support one or more versions of any given extension. At the same time. Clients can discover which versions of an extension, this server is using and supports. And they can use either"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "the default version that the server uses by default, or they can specify version that they would like to the server used via query parameter. Next turn. It also includes in addition to the Art help response by adding a new member, called version help, and this is simply present to list all of the extensions that a server supports the full domain over all types of queries. And all of the versions of each of those extensions. That the server supports. It can also include some additional metadata Like, whether or not a version is to be used by default by the server, any documentation and also temporal information that can be used to negotiate grade time frames from one version of an extension to another. Next. Is just an example. Again, this version extension an extension itself. So you'll expect to see that. And each of these responses And here you can see the server advertising signaling that it supports two different versions of the version name extension I'd say those words a lot. With a default version, which will be used if no specific parameter is supplied by the client. Next chart, please. So that was the help response. And in addition to that, we'll look at just functional query responses. And does will receive an additional member as well, a version member which lists"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "any extensions that are being used in that particular response. In addition to the rd conform member, which simply lists the extensions that are being used this provides further information as to which version of those extensions is being used. I meant say earlier, the one of the problems is is trying to address because with the our and performance block only as these extensions evolve and change the ability for a client to sufficiently determine how the data is gonna be bundled becomes ambiguous by just the art conform block. And so these these version scheme allows for tighter and more clear understanding for how the data is gonna be packaged. So this version block would be included in query responses. To to provide which version of the extensions is being used so that the client can understand how to process the data in in the response. Next chart. And this is just an example of a client specifying a version. Of an extension that it would like the server to use. It obviously needs to be. One of the versions that the server supports as to defined in the help response. But then this would lock This would lock the version of any given extension. To something that is well known to the client. Next chart. So again, just to wrap it up, This is hopefully"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "it's intended to help negotiate versions and understanding the data that's being passed between the client and server. And also helps upgrading and changes such that they're clients aren't surprised if if the server changes a version overnight and the data format changes this should allow, clients to to keep responses in a format that they understand until such a time as they're ready to update to the next version of an extension. And finally, This a draft that is already out there. And the purpose of this talked here today is to just generate interest and awareness and to hopefully get some discussion going on the mail list to pick it up and adopt it as a working group document. That's the last line. Okay. Thank you. Daniel. We have two minutes or one month minute it left for questions. Does anybody have question for daniel you'll Andy please go ahead. Is is the idea that this is supposed to be mandatory for all future extensions? Yes. Yes. I believe it is. Okay. So what do gonna do about the current extensions? And I to to be honest, if it's mandatory, I think this is a really bad idea then the... Just because we're gonna have multiple issues with the current extensions that are already in there. The other the other thing is is that The way this currently defines how you get a version information is you have to go look for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "this one string over here, then you have to dive over here and look at this other string and and by the way, the the string isn't structured or it's structured, but you yet to go parse the string just kinda odd since we have Json, and you could just actually break out all that information. I don't know. I I I think this is I I think parts of this draft are interesting for trying to do things that allow you to iterate fast on an extension not ones that would actually be something that you'd you'd have a standard on, but if it's a if it's mandatory for all future extensions, I see this is kind of complicating the protocol quite a bit. Okay. Thank you. Andy Jim you have the last ten seconds? Go ahead, Jim. I'm yeah. Getting my audio going. Thank you. He. To respond the andy. As far as dealing with existing extensions, we actually have a section the draft to address how to address existing extensions and this particular extension address something that we already have an Ep, so the ability to be able to negotiate the version I believe is very important. So I don't see it as adding complexity. I think it's addressing the gap that exist. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, James. And that was the final remark and closing the queue you, Daniel for your presentation. You could time we go over to the next presentation and give given the same amount of time as everybody had. So Thank you, Daniel. And gavin, please go ahead. Thank you. Thank you, Anton antoine. And hello, everyone. So I'm presenting the Ep T l extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "draft for consideration by the working group. This is document that has a fairly lengthy life. Taking back almost fifteen years to to when we had a proprietary extension at the central system. And I think as a result of conversation hallway conversation at a previous Meeting. I was asked if I could kind of warm it up a little bit and present it for for consideration. So if you can move one to the next slide, please. So just to establish what the problem statement is tl the operators set long T pto values on their delegation, and I did a little bit of research. My stuff is preparing these slides. Where there at least one tl sets t over two weeks on delegation. Not necessary all delegation for certain some delegation. And others for the order of four days, but e know dot com dot net, which you'll represent about half of all the domains registered. Have a teacher of two days. And from what I hear from from operators of large second levels, domains. This is a deter factor in them deploying any sort of change to that domain names, especially domain changes that might be considered risky. Such as turning dns a on on our top ten domain. That you might imagine that one of the the big global tech companies with with what would might want to secure. But there terrified of doing so because if they if they screwed up, there's no role rollback. So the intention is to provide a mechanism to allow an Ep client. To request a change in a T tel or a delegation. Through Adp. Next slide, please. This is just some results of the survey. I I checked"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the the the highest ranking Tl d and it gets Trent one million list for Each tl. And and like that the T pto on delegation down. By range. So you can see here that they're, you know, about eighty five percent of all domains on the management have a T at least an hour, which means that if there's an issue with the delegation records, with the Ds records, for example, then the operator of that domain is looking at an outage of at least an hour until is expire. Next. So the what does the Up extension do? It creates new extension elements that are added to create update and info commands for both the domain names and host objects. Very simple syntax. The the sixth element contains an integer, which is the T l that should be set. On the Ns records the Ds records records. You can specify an nt entry element if you want to reset a previously assigned value to the default. That's included in creating update commands and then the server can return the the current value in the input command. Response. Because the extension applies both domain and host objects, you can separately specify T l for a domain and also for subordinate host objects. And the the the extension is is relatively kind of free form in terms of how server approaches can can process and implement changes to details according to their own needs. And it makes an norma reference on the change extension. To ensure that registrar hours are kept informed of any outer band changes to Gt values. Next slide, please?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "So here's an example of an update command, which is setting T l on example dot com to thirty six hundred when straightforward. It's it's not a a particularly complicated extension. And so it's relatively easy to see first pass what it's designed to do. Next slide, please. So here's an update to a host object. Again, doing the same thing, setting a t detail thirty six hundred seconds on off com. Sorry. And it's one example, don't. Next slide, please. So I'd like to propose this document for a Working group adoption. There are some un unresolved issues and I'm fighting them here for discussion. The first one is the extension interaction with the host actually model Hugo go, so I've gotta to raise this on the main list. And I think it's worth some further thoughts on how and whether the extension needs to be well, the the specification needs to be expanded to allow for that use the post attribute model to allow clients to specify T details on host attributes or rather than host objects. This would probably complicate the the the grammar quite significantly because you'd need a way to dis between a T l applying to a domain name and all to to host attributes on the same domain name. So therefore, there's there there be need for an attribute or a bit mouse of some subscription just to say, this applies to an And, but not to. Should we therefore need to see yeah. So, before separate details for separate types would you want to maintain a long T tel or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "on your Ns records because they're stable and a short T tl on your ds records because you're just blind dns sec or you about got to a rollover. And is there is it benefit allowing that? Is the any complexity justified by the benefits. And also like to ask people to consider implementing this extension. And providing feedback because, obviously, implementation is is a is is helpful in terms of defining what the the challenges and problems are and and getting us down the track towards so what's publication is. So that's... The last slide is it's just a points of context if for anyone has any comments or feedback. Obviously, the reg maintenance the best unfortunately. Yeah. So I don't know if you still want to answer some questions. Happy to answer of questions. So we Was out of the gate year. If you can take it very short with because we still have another remark to make But Jim was actually first so gin. You know, Thanks very much fine very quick. I think this is a great idea gavin. Would like to see it adopted by the working group. The idea of having separate values for the T details for the different resource tapes is probably necessary, but I think this could corner cases where you might have things like something expired from a cash. Like a ds jacket going out where all the are still valid. So we meet that means of some mechanism for recommending that the Details should be the same. Well maybe the boutique need to change these. Thanks. She? From Jp ellis. Is this extension willing to change kimberly I should be kind of changes for the temporary"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "So intention is is to not specify time frames for T pto changes. That could be down to the the server to decide. And if a service decides the t changes are only allowed to be temporary then it can use to change pole extension to tell the the registrar when they reset the T detail button. Okay. And Richard, we have ten seconds left ten seconds. I'll be quick. So Gavin, I was I can just put this in emailing this. I'm not a big fan of of having it be a should on the change pole notification because in my experience, a lot of registrar ignore those and jam those up. I'll put that to the list next. Thanks. Getting. Thank you, Gavin. And yeah. Let's put the rest to the to the the list. Also to Daniel, I want to say, you know, if you want to you have your documents adopted. Please send the message to the chairs? And we will guide you in the process, but feedback on the list is always welcome. We move to any other business and we already have an issue there. Or something in Let's Hello? yeah. That's my. Yeah. Go ahead. Ed. You're I just want to plug something that's actually on the mailing list. The registry operations workshop will be held this year. Remote event June twentieth. The details are in the message. I won't go through that The call for papers is open as of today or yesterday give or take the day. And we'll take until May nineteenth I believe is the window for submitting something, so we're looking for input for that And rest should be in that email. If not, you can try to find me to ask you the questions. That's all I wanna site. Okay. Thank you, Miss Luis."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "And with that, we reached the end of the agenda and apologies for you know, being short time at this time, We have to wear schedule a perhaps a little bit longer next time. Want thank everybody for participating. Let's continue the discussions on the list and if there are no any other business then this meeting is adjourned. And thank you to William for most of the Scribes in the in No notepad. And we Thank you all. Thanks see. Yep. Will be touch."
  }
]
