[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:19",
    "text": "slides about the dates and which list to use and all that okay good morning this is the dispatch working group and the art area general meeting one will follow the other the blue seats are new sheets are circulating please make sure you get your name on them if not sure so this we have a there\u0027s a two and a half hour general meeting slot dispatch in art area take up the first two ninety minutes HTTP will HTTP this will start in here immediately at eleven o\u0027clock and I\u0027m mark Nottingham is waving his finger at me that that better be the case yeah quick quick technical interrupt this room is a very echoey so it\u0027s I\u0027m finding it hard to understand I\u0027m having to concentrate more than usual everyone peace please speak as slowly as possible okay if folks are having trouble hearing maybe you could move towards the front of the room also our note taker said say again run so John Levine our note takers are sitting up front so when you go to the microphone please say your name so they can make sure and capture that microphones are sufficiently far away from them that they will not be able to read your badge so please say your name at the mic thank you to our scribes and no takers those have already been selected please note the note well well the RFC and BCP numbers on here may actually be a bit stale this is a recycled slide I will update them after this meeting but the slide identifies your rights and obligations with respect to intellectual property and contributions within the IHF my condensed slide you have the right to remain silent etc etc anything you say contribute is a contribution of the ITF please read those prior BCPs and rfcs if you have any questions about this so beginning The Dispatch part of this meeting the deadlines for ITF 101 we have standard rotating deadlines about how to get yourself on the agenda how to get things appropriate attention if they\u0027re being dispatched these are the deadlines that I backtracked from based on what the date of the IAT F next IETF meeting they may be slightly off by a day or two I may have accounted incorrectly in my jet lag nature last night but please aim for these if you have work that you want to have dispatched discuss at IETF 101 the general purpose of these deadlines is if you make the deadlines you will get at end of time pretty much guaranteed unless there\u0027s huge competition for it which is uncommon if you miss the deadlines you\u0027re behind the any other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:19",
    "text": "business turn in terms of priority please start your draft names as normal with draft your last name and dispatch so that way they are associated with this working group even if even prior to them being accepted as working group items or being dispatched there are two mailing lists that are relevant to the work in this working group one is the art which is for general discussion of art and what used to be write op --ax but things that are specifically to be discussed as work items of this working group should be on the dispatch list we can write along I\u0027m going to move to the floor mic for a brief discussion of a draft I put out right I know I know yeah there are no slides for this so listen closely the marine so this is a the name of a draft that was posted recently to the dispatch list it introduces a compression technology that we are seeking to have published as an informational document and registers a media type and a content encoding for it it is the processing path we\u0027re looking here is for here is very similar to the way broadly did it which is to describe the format register the code points and pretty much that\u0027s all this got the attention of HTTP HTTP briefly because they were concerned that we are seeking to have browser adoption for this right away that is not the case that\u0027s not a targeted use case so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s much overlap here so there has been a lot of discussion on the list and both off the list and so I wanted to be fully on the record and say that we\u0027re looking it sounds like the agreed path here putting the ATS on the spot a bit but the agreed path here is that this would be ad sponsored an informational document and does not need its own working group we\u0027re not really sure who would look at it other than because there isn\u0027t a really a compression working group or that sort of talent is not readily available inside the IETF so that seems like the path that I\u0027ve heard agreed to Martin at the mic yeah mom told him the only thing that I would say is that the the content type I\u0027m the media type I\u0027m not sure that you have a strong case for that right we didn\u0027t do it if you could make a case for that that would be handy just to sort of clear the clear the air a bit okay halal this term and just since I drip read this draft this morning mm-hmm yeah two questions you know what this is useful for and what\u0027s the IPR situation what was the second one what is this useful for it\u0027s probably the same thing that Jesus and Bradley would be used for except for we don\u0027t have broadly is very much geared toward browser space we are we have different applications in mind like the Linux kernel is using it so there are there are other application spaces where it\u0027s potentially useful so compression of texts yes impression of text compression of arbitrary data okay compression "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:19",
    "text": "compression of good program impression of text with the reasonable compression of arbitrary data I believe so I should point out that I am NOT one of the developers of technology I\u0027m working the IETF process on their behalf so my answers about the technology are second hand because if it\u0027s no better than gzip then why another that it is it is produces better performance than gzip that I\u0027m sure kids another the ICR question uh we are in compliance with 78 and 79 we there\u0027s nothing to declare you look like you\u0027re ready to go to the mic yeah Alexei Melnikov I think once upon a time we were registering contenttransfer encodings at least for email and other places right were they still used I think what I remember from that talking about it is that it\u0027s very hard to actually add content transfer encoding as opposed to media types to various and systems that\u0027s why we basically sort of stopped doing this I\u0027m sitting except for very specialized cases that\u0027s coming back the Y media type might be here oh oh I see possible you know need base yes okay should I say that in the draft that that\u0027s the current method of doing there\u0027s a worth doing that or just in the write-up yeah I\u0027m not sure that that means saying about these Jesus if the you know if the questions comes up okay and that maybe maybe was doing it okay um I learned in processing this document that there\u0027s a difference between content transfer encoding and content encoding so I learned something about those are not quite the same thing I\u0027m sorry you\u0027ll need to go to the microphone break if you want to troll me you have to do it at the mic yeah so well we have remote participants as well yes I\u0027m on Thompson don\u0027t worry about transfer coatings they\u0027re not gonna deploy in HTTP as far as I know I\u0027m home II did not I\u0027m sorry so my question that I got up before was what are you expecting what more do you want from this room I don\u0027t mostly just to say that that\u0027s the processing path that I\u0027m hearing we should follow and if there\u0027s any other suggestion I\u0027d love to hear it otherwise I\u0027m going to be so blessed night Ben and Adam both said not it so guess who I\u0027m gonna go talk to you next that\u0027s not going like come on Alexei for the record I really didn\u0027t like sponsoring broadly document that that was not I was not really happy um but I might be more happy with this one we\u0027ll see okay okay I can take it all right thank you Thanks nothing else some done run so we\u0027re gonna get to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:21",
    "text": "art area stuff updates from the area directors guys want to get up and say anything just a very quick no there isn\u0027t much general update from us as far as I know but we have this new art art Directorate for reviewing documents which doesn\u0027t have many very many members but it was actually we sort of trying it out and it was quite useful in the last six months or so our we had some reviewers who done more than others and in particular Martin Thompson and reviewed three documents and Mark Nottingham reviewed two documents and this was very helpful to RT AG\u0027s so RT G\u0027s would like to thank all the reviewers no no there are more people than two of you but the your view the most documents you know can you send a link to that the review team to the group so people can see who\u0027s on yes okay okay and are you looking for volunteers you look ready confused mark you review two documents I checked in the morning okay and also you may want to call the old I guess why art can see who all was on there Frank oh yeah so and the other part of it is you know I think we\u0027ll we\u0027ll slowly trying to recruit more people in particular people you know you\u0027re I you\u0027re an expert so I\u0027m trying to find some specific names well if people want to volunteer come talk to us well you could just do what I did and I took people and just add them to the list and told them they were there but well I did try to do this and didn\u0027t work this time okay so the other thing that I wanted to point out is in case anyone missed it we have a new working group in the area now DNS over 8t TPS and they\u0027re having their inaugural meeting this Thursday so anyone sorry your two slides ahead of us oh sorry well that was my thing you can keep going do it then didn\u0027t have anything to say okay okay we\u0027re good we normally enumerate the buffs that are scheduled for the week my neglected to actually invite the chairs to talk about it so these are the four if anybody wants to say something in the mic about what they are why we\u0027re interested in when they are please head up but since we didn\u0027t actually invite anyone I don\u0027t actually expect that and the two working groups that are chartered since then DOE and extra the extra chair is here yes you want to say anything about your working group or just have everybody everybody go read the Charter and and know that Adam just mentioned someone\u0027s up he\u0027s not up okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:22",
    "text": "okay I am with us mine Ben then you\u0027re up dude [Music] hold on a second no it is BAM I am up here strictly as a individual contributor so my area director hat is often I guess in Adams possession until I sit back down and so Russ Housley and I put this draft together unfortunately Russ couldn\u0027t be here for medical reasons so everyone hopefully send good wishes to him there may be some questions I will have to defer to him I don\u0027t know if he\u0027s remotely attending or not okay so if you set forward anyway this is about using s/mime for a sip and MSRP messaging and some motivation here one of the primary use cases it\u0027s not the only use case but the kind of motivating use cases we\u0027ve got organizations that are starting more and more to use mobile messaging to send various kinds of notifications and some of these are notifications that can be fairly security sensitive so for example financial transactions a notices or password change notices or any number of other kinds of things that if they were falsified King calls problems and you can see there\u0027s a number of ways these can fail I think that\u0027s pretty obvious next slide believe it or not there are still people that care about messaging applications in the simple environment I know it\u0027s easy for us to say that you know no one really cares about interoperable messaging anymore but there are some ecosystems that are using this for example of vaulty doing SMS over multi uses that message and then there\u0027s this RCS thing that a lot of operators mobile operators still care about which uses both set messaging and MSRP and for the use case that we were that I just mentioned signed messaging is kind of your low-hanging fruit and that\u0027s because it doesn\u0027t really the client certificate problem so the idea of an organization sending notifications to a lot of its users is a fairly easy thing to address compared to say encrypted messaging so some highlights of what are in the draft so we suggest some updates to some of the algorithm requirements that are already in sip and MSRP so we suggest that they must support ECDSA plus sha-256 and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:22",
    "text": "actually I\u0027m not going to go through every one of these but also wanting to add for encrypting we want to add the AES 128 cbc and to a curves there as well we also have some suggestions about putting sip view our eyes in the subject alternative names in certificates so because that\u0027s the identity that\u0027s typically going to be you\u0027re going to need a match to and you\u0027re dealing with both sip and MSRP and and actually very importantly whatever you do don\u0027t put MSRP URLs and they\u0027re that useless for that purpose next slide we\u0027ve got some general stuff about how user agents can express what kind of s-line capabilities they have this is primarily through the use of identifying what mime types they can handle and this is not entirely satisfactory in some areas for example sip forking makes it difficult to know for sure that the user agent that you\u0027re hitting it\u0027s a user agent that you might think you know it\u0027s capabilities some other saying sip message has very tight size limits and we start talking about any kind of complex messaging so we need to keep those messages small and for actually for both sip and MSRP the SIP and their respective specs assume that decryption is happening immediately when you deliver things so they make some requirements around 4:15 and 493 responses that may not make sense in a world where encryption may not happen until you\u0027ve got user eyeballs on the mess which made the minutes or hours after the message was sent to the user agent for MSRP we need to just clarify it\u0027s probably obvious but we clarified anyway that you apply your S line things before you chuck if you\u0027re breaking things into chunks and I already mentioned don\u0027t use the MSRP your eyes for certificate matching next slide so there are some issues to think about in these general ecosystems and some of these are really questions about what people care about and what is actually out there deployed so if people remember CPM let\u0027s deepen our history of of rise treatment of messaging allows us to add metadata into messaging in addition to what metadata might be in the SIP MSRP headers and so an open question is do we care about that there may be some use cases for word for example you have session border controls that still mess with from and to headers which could cause us some problems on certificate matching there might other be some other applications of throwing in various other pieces of metadata that we want to be attached to the signatures there may be some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:23",
    "text": "interactions with IMD n that would be the instant messaging delivery notifications somehow or another we met let the I in I be sorry the IMD M spikes get by to explicitly allow application servers to modify CPM headers and existing messages that\u0027s a problem for signatures now I don\u0027t know how much that\u0027s happening in the real world I suspect not much the draft days examples and as almost always a case was a 0-0 I\u0027m sure the security considerations need some expansions next please so really at this point we like to draw people\u0027s attention to it get feedback on it we\u0027ve had a few comments on the list and my question is do people think subject space is worth working on and if they do so how should we move forward with it and my comments on this like I said that this seems like overkill for a working group well I mean we\u0027ve done many working groups with pretty small documents that\u0027s true a small document I know but one reason why I think it might be helpful is that you might get some of the security people helping you work on it a little bit more right if I don\u0027t think I can see that yeah okay I will blur my not having my IDI hat on a little bit by just pointing out that things like sit brandy much probably a little bit more complex than this have not moved as fast as we would have liked and as a mini working group so but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s the mini working group problem okay right yeah yeah Sean\u0027s first hi Sean Leonard so overall I read the draft and I want to speak generally in favor of it I think that it should move forward the process that it goes through I don\u0027t have a strong opinion on and the only thing I\u0027d say is within the context of all the other IETF related work around secure messaging or whatever that it just specified the version a best mime which would probably version 4 since that\u0027s what\u0027s currently being worked on to minimize interoperability testing headaches but generally I\u0027m in favor of the dress good point thank you Martin yeah nan Thompson I\u0027m a little couple of questions about things like scope that makes me think that working group might actually be a better choice here is this first two point-to-point messaging you\u0027re not talking about multi-party cases I don\u0027t think we\u0027re explicitly excluding multi-party Texas I can the youth case I mentioned of organization sending the users I can easily see multi-party being right there now when you say multi-party do you mean through this exploiter type multi-party or conference bridges or also that this is kind of the question that I\u0027ve badly formed but managing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:25",
    "text": "group King mechanisms or sending messages to large groups of people and ensuring that the message can\u0027t be read by the exploiter for instance is challenging and we don\u0027t have a whole lot of good key management varieties in your space so I agree that\u0027s that\u0027s very interesting stuff I don\u0027t necessarily see that kind of thing at scope here boy it\u0027d be nice if it could be McGee to solve it easy so you know that you\u0027re not attempting to address that problem you do not answer that not not yet and you\u0027ll notice that I\u0027ve been mentioned to me offline this Drive completely waves of hands on certificate management other than just assuming general peaky eyes that stuff yeah that\u0027s kind of where I was going if you\u0027re if you\u0027re actually attempting to do anything meaningful here you kind of need to tackle that problem and so that sort of leads me to the conclusion that overkill is probably a not even close to right it\u0027s the opposite if you don\u0027t do a working group you\u0027re not going to give this the attention that it actually deserves okay hey John Peterson um so probably unsurprisingly my question about this is why you want to do this with s/mime instead start in general and there are at least three I think good reason to say that one is one of the reasons we end up doing stir in the first place because nobody did that\u0027s mine right it\u0027s not like we didn\u0027t try to put s climb into 3261 we did try to patch it like 15 times didn\u0027t do that AIB what was that again the authenticated identity body thing right to try to minimize the things you\u0027d be signing with that\u0027s fine go to a seafoam approach so I mean we reran that code and number of times when I looked at what your use cases were for this which are things like SMA which are things like bolte those are endpoints of telephone numbers they\u0027re gonna want all the certificate infrastructure that stirrers created for that and if you want to do cryptography with that as well in addition to decide entity I\u0027m afraid sip brandy is probably your best bet I mean Oh Joe I mean from a security perspective who-who is actually an implement like s my first sip for these applications where as I see a lot of people that seem to be doing sir were like real carriers and stuff so like what\u0027s the what\u0027s the motivation to do it this way okay so first of all thank you for asking that question you checked one of my check boxes in my discussions with Russ about what our questions were going to be okay and and right now the the counter-argument for that is that in these particular ecosystems the code already exists and a lot of user agents to handle s/mime or at least only platforms around to handle s/mime for other reasons they\u0027re doing it in their mail packages there so that\u0027s sort of saying while going with a JWT jws sort of approach i think it\u0027s very interesting and I don\u0027t think any work here should prevent doing that work but I think that that is going to require more greenfield coding on the clients than an SVM approach might right now for what I see happening stirrer I think that eventually you\u0027re going to have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:25",
    "text": "three validations demo clients but maybe that right away so yes there is more cure coding that there\u0027s going to be at like end point code for that but like the cert management stuff doesn\u0027t just make you think you need to clone everything that store is doing I think they\u0027d certainly be some relationships that Krista Homburg I\u0027m proxying for my for my colleagues working with RCS and and I get one question and one comment the question is whether this excludes direct peer-to-peer messaging between two endpoints if there\u0027s a reason why it wouldn\u0027t work for that I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s related to what Martin was asking and the comment is on maybe it\u0027s too detailed to discuss here but I\u0027ll give it anyway it\u0027s on the C team the draft says that most of the time or typically the whole CPM body is is encrypted but the headers can\u0027t be encrypted in a lot of use cases because their use case for this like store-and-forward later and things like that where you need this information so you can\u0027t really encrypt it I don\u0027t really know if that\u0027s maybe that\u0027s just a detail but but just to make sure it\u0027s there is not as that you\u0027re don\u0027t assume the whole thing to be encrypted for this to work that\u0027s okay actually thank you for that comment that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of why I have CPM listed as a we need more do we need more discussion here and I think you\u0027re suggesting we do and how that\u0027s gonna fall out it\u0027s not immediately obvious I\u0027m trying to back up to your first comment and I actually fell out of my head can you repeat the first part of your coming again the first one was a question whether this could be used over the peer-to-peer between two end points of it or where there is a reason or security related or whatever that I don\u0027t think there is any technical reason why couldn\u0027t me use I think there are practical deployment reasons why it\u0027s hard and that gets back to what Martin was saying about key management or certificate management that\u0027s kind of why we were pointing to the organization sending to its users as a more of a one-to-many relationship where it\u0027s much easier to deal with signing certificates than in a encrypted well we don\u0027t want discount encryption but a encrypted model or a cryptid messaging or a user signed messaging is harder because of the kita stiffly distribution issues and this draft has not attacked that problem at all but I recognize it\u0027s a problem we\u0027re thinking about a regular peak regular public key infrastructures can deal more with the organization to users well if we\u0027re going to talk about anything involving end-user certificates then we need to think more about how we\u0027re gonna handle that Andrew Allen I had sort of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:30",
    "text": "similar saw reaction I guess to John on this with YS mime I mean to my knowledge that doesn\u0027t seem to be a lot of implementations out there Lisa wasn\u0027t two years ago when this issue came up in free GBP I looked at least at sip it I looked at all the separate results it was hardly any s/mime implementations that were showing up at so there at least a few years ago and so if the use case here is commercial carriers I\u0027m not sure if this is something that\u0027s they\u0027re going to use and maybe them it may be worth looking at different different security mechanisms maybe there should be a general framework or considerations and then like particular four particular security mechanisms I don\u0027t want to get Goods at least at least in 3gpp right now on no one\u0027s using yes mine I think I\u0027d want to get too far into implementations and solving the problem when we haven\u0027t figured out even how we\u0027re gonna process to work yet so well but this is a question about whether the work is worth doing okay so without diving into that and probably need a time check but without diving into into the technical details I don\u0027t think doing one precludes doing the other there\u0027s a question about the what resources we will put on there but I think there is and I think it\u0027s worth more discussion I think there is a constituency for doing this in s mind which is a sufficient reason to do it that doesn\u0027t mean this mine is the best solution for everything for the world and I certainly would love to see work done taking us to our approach to the sort of thing as well I just didn\u0027t propose that work Martin Dali 18t there is the u.s. wireless community that is requesting this he\u0027s not going to make okay so do we have someone who wants to work with been on chartering this proposing a charter or a problem statement or some scoping work or anything like that that could help us decide here look at all those everyone jump on the bandwagon everyone behind you guys or hands up whether or not you like the solution who thinks this is the problem we\u0027re solving okay okay then the question is who would like to work with Ben to come up with a charter and scope etc oh we have an IEP member standing up there okay mr. Thompson don\u0027t don\u0027t give that any more weight than it deserves Martin Thompson when you ask a question who thinks this is a problem we\u0027re solving you\u0027re saying do you want a unicorn and so it\u0027s not really a I don\u0027t get a lot of signal from that but well the question was secure messaging right I mean I think I think the the more pertinent question here is is there enough momentum behind the effort so and enough of a chance of this being successful that we think is worth doing right now and I I\u0027m not sure about that point it seems like we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:30",
    "text": "have people interested in having the work done I\u0027m interested in seeing the work done if it were possible but do we actually have enough thrust to get it over the line and I\u0027m not sure what the answer is on that one I\u0027d like to see a little more work on it my perhaps right but and it can I make a quick scope comment too I think the idea of attacking secure messaging would be a wonderful thing for us to do I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s a practical thing for us to do that wasn\u0027t really the intent of this draft by itself this draft was to clarify some usage issues around the use of s mine because we believe as Martin pointed out that there is at least some community that would like to use as mine in a mobile messaging type environment so maybe if it turns out that there\u0027s people that want to do mobile messaging I mean sorry secure messaging and this needs to be part of that work that\u0027s great too but I don\u0027t want to solve the boil the ocean to solve a clarification issue an immersion so I got to say two things the first is if we do decide to move forward with this I\u0027m happy to work with ban on the Charter um things but I think we\u0027re kind of hopping over the question of who would be like willing to work on this that\u0027s what I would like to see a show of hands before we even talk about it you know about whether we\u0027re moving this into a working group or disposition in any other way okay who in the room would work on this if a bus Stevens interrupting I\u0027m not interrupting just banging oh yeah steam front and just a question so when you\u0027re saying this in that previous question are we talking this equals an s-line based solution or this equals the function oh well we don\u0027t quite know yet because we don\u0027t have a clear problem statement so the overall question may be a little premature then I guess I\u0027m sort of leaning towards who wants to work on a writing one down yeah okay and then just a comment is that it for this equals excellent question and it would help me if if there was information available about what implementations actually exist because I\u0027m not clear about that I know it\u0027s been hard to get them but I don\u0027t know maybe they do exist and we just don\u0027t know I know that some do exist on the male side and whether or not code that\u0027s in mail applications can\u0027t own own mobile platforms can be turned around I used in the messaging application I have no clue about for example you know the mail app in in a iOS is can handle s/mime usually typically in enterprise situations where you\u0027re using the enterprise management functions to control your certificates so John Peterson so yeah I mean I think secure messaging thing is worth us doing and being right about I would kind of I would kind of look at that though as a very separate thing then let\u0027s make these tweets to a spine so it like the you know the 544 50 and so on work works right right who are you that I\u0027m not terribly interested to be on this day I know I wrote a lot that s mine stuff back in the day so I mean maybe partially my fault that it\u0027s messed up but the same time I don\u0027t think I would invest a lot of energy into that if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "there was a secure messaging thing though I want a problem statement and you know for us to talk about what the right way is to do something messaging I\u0027m sad because I\u0027m not convinced that this is the right overall approach to that so we\u0027ve been a again depending which one of those two things it is like it was secure messaging definitely I\u0027d be happy to public okay so to avoid accidentally buffing secure messaging I think the question and let the chair is again my ET hat is not on but as a individual contributor my question is around who would help progress work on clarifying the use of s 9 and sip and MSRP potentially doing more work around that like some key management stuff although that\u0027s not in the draft and I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s good for that\u0027s something we need to do is a question I think is very interesting to me the question about general secure messaging putting my ad hat back on is also very interesting to me and I would be of may if we have a good situated at I think we need to talk but that\u0027s not the problem the drafters trying to solve ok hi I\u0027m Jim Fenton I\u0027m some of the use I apologize for coming in the middle of this and missing some of it but some of the use cases that were mentioned things like password resets and financial notifications are things that I I don\u0027t think you know we tend to use email for them a lot and and it\u0027s a very bad solution to that but I think that there\u0027s enough there that we should be looking more broadly at at how we do it assuming that we want to do it necessarily with sip or MSRP or s/mime I think we need to kind of step back from it a little bit and look at the overall requirements for what would be a good medium in order to convey that that kind of notification and figure out what the best way to do it is I\u0027m not convinced that any of the technologies that we\u0027re talking about here are necessarily the right answer okay so uh referring to that a little bit I don\u0027t disagree with what you\u0027re saying in general but the world we\u0027re in right now is it\u0027s worse than just email companies using SMS for this I\u0027m acutely worth and which which it seems to me is be the worst of all possible worlds to be used for that but that\u0027s they use that because that\u0027s what gets to their users reliably and when they start looking at other approaches to this they can\u0027t assume that all their users can get it what he might exist right now there a lot of people a lot of organizations are using smartphone apps for similar purposes which depending on the smartphone app might be great it might be awful who knows the community particularly some of the u.s. mobile community that Martin mentioned is acutely worried about this and that\u0027s why they\u0027re looking specifically at ways to move into a more secure mobile messaging type environment getting everyone to agree on better "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "technologies to use for this kind of use cases I think would be a wonderful thing but I don\u0027t have a lot of hope in success well just as a for instance of the sort of thing that that what we currently have doesn\u0027t work is the notifier doesn\u0027t have any way of knowing that the message actually got there it tends to be sort of fire-and-forget and for things like a notification that you know there\u0027s been a big financial transaction or something like that the bank might want to know that the you act that message was actually delivered some of the some of the things that have come along since like iMessage give you some of that that\u0027s but it\u0027s a it\u0027s a separate infrastructure and proprietary and all of that and I think we need more of that in in a publicly available mechanism Thanks just about that if again from the scoping perspective if the cert management component this becomes then again I think that gets much much more interesting right and like there are things that I think evolved from what\u0027s going back me what\u0027s going on stir and so on that if you weren\u0027t doing it that way again I think you I would probably want to run have fun cats so we\u0027ll close the mics after Sean we need to move on kirsta this is more a general comment I think if there are people who want to use this and if we think there\u0027s something regarding to the usage that need to be clarified or maybe updated because and so on I think we should do it I mean this is the reasons why I and others for example in in city core we have a lot of problems with session time and so on because it\u0027s actually something that people are deploying and sooner or later you\u0027re gonna start getting this you know emails when things don\u0027t work and and if the specification is unclear it\u0027s very difficult to say whose fault it is and so on so so so I think if this is something that s/mime is part of three to six one so it\u0027s a valid you know thing to use so so if something needs to be clarified and people want to use it I think we should do it thank you all right Sean Leonard I think that the current draft in its general scope omitting certificate management and stuff like that is the right approach there\u0027s a lot of stuff that can be done there but I think that it\u0027s out of scope and in point of fact s/mime as a general framework can do a lot of authentication or protection of content that has nothing to do with certificates at all for example you can use pre-shared keys or passwords or things like that so there\u0027s a lot more applications where this is very relevant to using in a sip environment without needing to necessarily bring in the baggage or kind of deal with the Dragons of certificates specifically okay so it sounds like let\u0027s focus back on Ben\u0027s draft and let\u0027s go back to the question of who would be willing to work on Ben you spoke with Ben on s mine on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:32",
    "text": "this okay so we\u0027ve got four people okay um and again we but still like you know a crisper problem statement in scope right right yeah it does seem from the discussion that there is some interest in the general secure messaging but until we have something on the table we\u0027re not really gonna do do anything with that right now or there might be something that the interested parties want to get together and talk about and again we don\u0027t want to do another sip brandy where we actually did one the real solution people were doing and then the more general problem because that didn\u0027t work well and just one closing remarks if you mentioned a problem statement I agree that there\u0027s not a clear problem statement in the draft I can quick remark on that I think you know the core of the problem statement is that we believe that some people that want to do that\u0027s mine and right now the way things have specified in the existing specs it\u0027s hard to do as mine and an interoperative way for a messaging application as opposed to say moving STP around for signaling calls type application yeah again you\u0027ve got people that are willing to work with you on that problem so alright so John cleansin we need you to put yourself in the the queue to speak so I can push the red button and put you on the screen because John\u0027s present remotely here on this topic [Music] okay okay good there we go okay John you\u0027re up it looks like you\u0027ve got the platform here yeah I\u0027ve got the audio that\u0027s sending video yeah we may be okay we are in an interesting situation with internationalization in that most of us think it\u0027s important if if we\u0027re going to have in support an internet with with people who speak different languages and use different scripts but it raised a number of issues and we need to figure out how to get ourselves unstuck because we\u0027ve basically been stuck for the last couple of years and this presentation is not about the usual put everybody to sleep internationalization tutorial its focus with a very brief introduction on on this unstuck in question and and on trying to figure out how we move forward in a in a complex situation where the depth of knowledge scattered throughout the IETF is not well it\u0027s either not people are not broader both next slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "when we talk about these issues much of the time our focus has been in character encoding and matching that\u0027s not all of the problem a very broad set of issues they include data time formats and time zones which affects calendaring data entry conventions which affects user interfaces and character Pickers and input method systems and operating system design the effects presentation of particular situations rendering a type style selection turn out to be something very important that the IETF has rather carefully avoided perhaps wisely it includes confusable characters and deceptive strings something there\u0027s been a great deal of discussion about as a security issue among other things there language-specific convention issues we\u0027re always become particularly important when you don\u0027t know what the language is if if things are specific to a language and you can\u0027t tell what the language is you\u0027re in trouble we have transition problems from ask the only systems and how we do that particular example which has caused a lot of stir is is asking only systems that are case insensitive like the DNS moving to international environment where case insensitivity is not nearly as well-defined as as it is for asking those people or to believe and there are character encoding issues many of the selected solutions look like let\u0027s have this one and that one at the same time and and that causes horrible complications more so in some systems than in others unless there\u0027s broad consensus on what should be a canonical form and how to get to it and that consensus is understood and accepted by end-users the simplest example for asking well everybody well there been many claims in in the last several years that users always expect case insensitivity we trained at pull generation of users with with UNIX and similar systems does not expect that at all so these are often much more complicated issues than we tend to pretend next slide so I\u0027m going to focus today on at the NS\u0026I DNA related issues not because it\u0027s the most important but because it\u0027s been causing the most fuss and and the urgent problems seem to lie there even if other problems may long-term be as are more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "important I\u0027m not going to spend time out of today but there\u0027s a growing hypothesis that I DNA itself may have been a mistake that\u0027s going to be possibly my most controversial statement for today but backing out of AI DNA may be impossible ah and if that hypothesis is correct then the question is how to make the best of a bad situation rather than how we make this perfect or wonderful or satisfy everybody with AI DNA at this point there are many warts and drafts to address uh address at least partially some of them fairly difficult and complicated ietf actions last three years have been to do nothing we\u0027ve cleared up some crazy definitional issues we\u0027ve got an IAD statement who I can was just doing nothing until the ITF sorts this out that statement is becoming at least in some quarters more problematic over time as more unicode versions released uh we had a ball called lucid which went out a few rat holes and and at least in my opinion led to nothing uh and and we\u0027ve made some patches to allow some non ASCII domains and email addresses inserts some of which are now approved but this kind of list is not our usual IETF definition of progress on core issues next slide so the immediate problem is that we\u0027ve got three drafts which are waiting consideration or processing that are stuck one of the minutes predecessors have been stuck for two and a half years and that\u0027s the one that stimulated the IAB statement and started off with them with an issue with an Arabic character but has been but clearly expands considerably beyond that we\u0027ve got a draft as clarifies at the MS issue about taking responsibility nothing new there but the clarity of the responsibility may be important and we\u0027ve got another draft about troublesome characters which is one of several possible attempts to work around the issues rather than focusing on them head-on although again this kind of thing may be the best we can do we just don\u0027t know we\u0027ve got other work which has introduced drafts needed to address now known problems but those three documents are the cue today and we\u0027re really the cue six months ago I want to ask a question now which is how many people in the audience have not gone to sleep everybody\u0027s looking around to see who\u0027s hands around that was half way up ah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:34",
    "text": "well that\u0027s better than I expected okay next slide it\u0027s probably symptomatic of the large number of hands which way up that people are not interested in getting dragged into this problem if they can possibly avoid it that doesn\u0027t make the problem less important but we\u0027ve heard in a number of working groups people stand up and say what I really need is for you to just tell me what to do so I don\u0027t need to understand this if the people who said that are in the room you know who you are ah that\u0027s so a recipe or search for recipe so one can follow that recipe and be safe and have systems work and work globally without anyone having to think or understand very much in the process of designer implementation and the bad news is it doesn\u0027t work and it doesn\u0027t work because as we keep discovering every time we look in an area of this set of problems we find idiosyncrasy if it\u0027s good enough to display the characters then there are things you can do but if you want the characters displayed correctly or displayed the way or displayed on receipt the way the sender intends or display the way a normal reader of that language expects to see them that\u0027s much harder than it gets language specific and script specific and what happens to us when we try to think about a discuss these issues is that we keep getting a substrate into trivia we fall into a Latin script trap we understand that Latin script works and therefore we understand how other scripts work well that\u0027s false indeed if we understand how ASCII works extrapolating from there to understanding how Latin script works is also false in other cases we\u0027ve got somebody who feels like if they understand two languages and how they work or two writing systems or how they work then they understand they can extrapolate to everything and that\u0027s false as well so in general these expect extrapolations from one languages script don\u0027t work two languages of scripts don\u0027t work much better but at the same time the desire and expectation of the community is to just have this problem go away with some simple easily followed formula and the bad news no such formulas out there next slide so then the question is what\u0027s to be done if we actually care about internationalization for any of its purposes continuing to do nothing is not an option we found ourselves in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "situation where there are many interpretations of i-dna out there there are systems still using ID and a 2003 there are systems using ID and a 2003 with their private updates past Unicode 3.2 and everybody\u0027s got a different private updates we\u0027ve got ID and a 2008 we\u0027ve got some different cultures that ID and a 2008 and they\u0027ve spawned their own interpretations and we\u0027ve got a Unicode spec which is moving increasingly towards being a competing standards this is in some respects no worse than a situation in which we have lots of competing standards out there but every variation in every competing standard creates a risk of user confusion a risk assistance not working as expected by the users or by the developers including having false negatives or positives but that\u0027s not limited to that and every one of these sources of confusion is the fact is a potential vector for an attack it\u0027s been claimed that there are fewer of these attacks than we might expect or that we have been claiming but this is also related to attackers very often not needing to be smarter than they have to be and and that\u0027s a very temporary and unstable situation again I DNA is not the only problem area here but the DNS and traditional matching rules and structures and assumptions implies special complications whatever we\u0027re doing now to solve these problems it isn\u0027t working things are getting worse unless we can find another way this is this area\u0027s problem to solve if you think knowledge and depth about this area is bad here go look at security and go look in other areas about even the questions about whether one should internationalize or stick with ASCII as one looks at identifier z\u0027 and protocol handshakes and so on next slide as far as I know we\u0027ve discussed three groups of possibilities about how to move forward with this the first most obvious is the creative working group but the problem there is having a critical mass of expert people and that means a problem with leadership and a problem with resources as well as the people themselves we\u0027re short of the people were short of the leadership were short of the resources a second possibility which has been kicked around is to create some sort of special review team and really empower it there\u0027s a problem with how to select membership the question is whether the iesg or the community would accept the conclusions but if this we\u0027re going to work we need "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:36",
    "text": "to move between accept what that group says unless there\u0027s a counter-argument or somebody raises a fuss to accept what that group says unless there\u0027s a solid grounded expert argument against it ah carries risks another suggestion which has been made is to leave the problem to someone else the Unicode consortium is the most frequent example but I\u0027ve heard some suggestions about various ican groups as well this has a certain swell in the past it\u0027s one of the sources of contradictory advice that we\u0027re dealing with that contradictory at least if one believes DNS names are identifiers if one believes that they are simple expressions of thoughts or preferences or brands then maybe there isn\u0027t a problem at all and the Unicode folks seem to have problems deceiving of language independent identifiers as every so we\u0027ve had those discussions about specific problems that they turn around and say well there\u0027s no problem cuz they\u0027re different languages even if they\u0027re the same script and obviously other ideas are welcome but that\u0027s where we\u0027ve got me next slide but as we look at this and move forward remember that ignoring the issues and doing nothing creates risks and the history at least so far is that either makes things get worse or lets them get worse and if our job is to make the internet work better globally then ignoring internationalization is inconsistent with that goal and we need to figure out how to do something suggestions comments thanks very much okay so John I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m gonna shut you off for a minute well but I just but I can\u0027t see other remote okay be present here at the mic um it and if you would go back one slide actually it occurs to me leaving the problem to someone else alone is of course not gonna work and has it traditionally but it occurs to me that part of the problem we\u0027ve run into with the Unicode consortium in particular is that we are running independent whether it be consensus or other sorts of decision processes and they are not required to come to consensus themselves that is Unicode consortium has a set of desires about how stuff should be used sometimes we hear responses like well you should stop doing that that\u0027s not how we intent design this thing or intended it for to be used we\u0027ve asked questions like how should we use it properly can you guys do some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "sort of identifier system since we\u0027re using some of these as identifiers x\u0027 that turns out to be problematic i\u0027m wondering if one of the solutions is to figure out some way to actually do joint work with the unicode consortium such that the forcing function is both sets of parties IETF folks and Unicode consortium folks have to come to consensus on the solution set I I don\u0027t know of any way for the IETF community to independently solve this problem because there\u0027s not enough of us to spend enough time who have the appropriate expertise and we don\u0027t have any leverage whoo cause the Unicode consortium to do anything differently than they\u0027re doing now okay why don\u0027t we let Leslie stick and then we\u0027ll let John have them the floor again Leslie Nagel and I\u0027m largely following on Pete\u0027s comments I think in it I think the problem that we\u0027ve had with working with relying on it the Unicode consortium in the past has been the fact that they have different priorities and different purpose and don\u0027t fundamentally understand the things that are terribly important to us like once you set something don\u0027t change the tables I mean and the problem is that that\u0027s perfectly fine for their purposes they\u0027re not wrong or evil they\u0027re just differently motivated so I think that I don\u0027t see a way to try to do joint work with them at that level although I agree with Pete that we don\u0027t currently have anything like the expertise to do this all ourselves and I don\u0027t think we will ever have in in the ietf realm the expertise to replicate all the work that the Unicode consortium has done nor should we so I think we need something that\u0027s maybe not a working group but I think we need some honest-to-goodness IETF based activity in order to make sure we get the attention of the rest of the IETF work to you know listen to the advice that comes out and follow these guidelines for protocols going forward if we don\u0027t have something that is grounded in the IETF I I don\u0027t think we\u0027re actually going to solve the problem so that\u0027s just a lot of words characterizing what I see is the problem and sadly no real answers about how do we move forward but maybe the first piece of the puzzle is to identify how we can attract people who legitimately have expertise in this area and don\u0027t simply you know know two languages or two scripts to come play in our space a little bit and help sort of the rest of the problem okay thanks Liz so I\u0027ll go ahead and hand it back over to John to see if he has any responses to those comments yeah the two observations one one of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:41",
    "text": "them is that there is really an important area of Nan overlap between us and the Unicode consortium they are very very good at coding characters and we would be totally insane to go into that business that we would know it we\u0027re pretty good at protocols and interchange among systems and certain things which have to work globally rather than within a certain known language context although we\u0027ve had difficulty extrapolating that general knowledge into this area making it work but that\u0027s an important distinction the other issue with Pete\u0027s suggestion is that I think there\u0027s an area where the Unicode consortium folks who have been looking at this boundary and the IETF folks who are looking at this boundary are in complete agreement and that is the conclusion that the other group does not play well with other children especially us it\u0027s it\u0027s an issue off of which I don\u0027t know how to move forward but when we\u0027ve got one group creating a standard in an area that we probably we\u0027ve got the IETF creating a standard an area where we presumably know quite a lot like the DNS and then the Unicode consortium comes along and creates a standard which effectively says don\u0027t use that standard use ours then the basis for collaborative environment is a little fragile okay so thanks John so we\u0027re gonna go ahead and go back we\u0027ve got about five six people in the queue okay this is Barry liebe part of what I was gonna say Leslie said the the core of it being that the Unicode consortium has a different need different priorities their goal is to be able to reproduce documents our goal is to have characters from different scripts play well in names and labels so but beyond that we have two separate issues one is as this all the stuff that John has laid out with why the names and labels stuff is difficult and and that we need to do something to to make that better and perhaps the attempt that we made in and not perhaps I think we have demonstrated that the attempt we made in Unicode 2008 to make it all rely on Unicode attributes and and and just make it make it all fall out of that isn\u0027t going to work and we\u0027re gonna have to do something that doesn\u0027t scale well and we have very few people who really understand the issues well enough to work that out but the other problem is that people developing protocols who are not in that group don\u0027t understand what they need to do in their protocol to make it work we see very often just falling back to it say utf-8 string and thinking that\u0027s good enough without worrying about all of the issues that are involved with comparing and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:41",
    "text": "normalizing and all of that stuff that part we we can we can do something about that we can figure out some way to have guidance for protocol designers to tell them what they need to look at in order to get their strings to behave well in in the environment we\u0027re asking them to work in so I think we should put some effort into that hey this is yo-yo Nia I think this problem is very much about good feedback from the use of user experiences not only the bad things but also the good things and to solve problems I think it is very important to work with the other standardization organizations such as DC which thinks about the appearances of the characters or usage of the applications so I strongly agree to and walk with other SD hoods okay Andrew hi my name is Andrew Sullivan so I there are maybe two maybe three things I want to say here um the first is I I still don\u0027t hear in in what we\u0027ve discussed here at the microphone um an answer that is sortable into these these buckets that John has on this slide we we know that we have a problem you know in friction between a couple of different SDOs here and and it isn\u0027t obvious to me that you know collaborating harder is gonna work but maybe that\u0027s maybe that\u0027s another thing that goes in this other ideas like we just try harder at that the second thing though that I want to say is is that it people sometimes describe what unique codes problem where the UTC\u0027s problem is it typically in terms of documents or something like that and that is not in my understanding what what unicode thinks they\u0027re doing and I think that we need to we need to sort of get over the idea that we have a clear idea of what other people who are who are doing are trying to do because I think we\u0027re miss describing it then and that that misunderstanding may be part of the part of the gap that we\u0027re having in in dealing with this other s do the final thing that I would say though is is that our real problem here has to do with the thing that we\u0027re normally we normally regard as toxic and that is this is really a user interface problem right these are identifiers that are leaked up into the user space and if we didn\u0027t have any users who cared about those identifiers then we wouldn\u0027t care about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:41",
    "text": "internationalizing them because you could just use numbers or strings or whatever you want it and it wouldn\u0027t matter so part of the difficulty here is that we we normally try to pretend that we don\u0027t have this kind of user interface problem and this is user interface all over it and I have no idea what to do about that because we\u0027re not very good at it traditionally and and as John - doubt in his in his presentation people keep saying well just give me the formula for that but if you if you went to you know a user interface person so well just give me the user interface formula um they would point in laugh at you and and that\u0027s really what our problem is here as well okay so we\u0027re gonna do Ted and then Pete and then we\u0027ll hand things back to John and then we\u0027ll get to the back to the queue Ted Hardy you could probably start pointing and laughing now without delay because I\u0027m going to describe two things one of which is something which we tried in the past and failed and the other of which is a slightly different description of this problem that I think means these buckets don\u0027t matter one of the things we tried to do in the past in the world of URIs and URLs was to create an internationalized version called arise that we perceived to be a presentation layer format that always had a mechanism for moving back from the presentation layer format to what we conceived of as a wire format and so the the definition of I our eyes was that these aren\u0027t the identifiers these are the presentation format and the real identifier is the thing you get when you apply the transform to get the IRI back into a URI and so your eyes are our thing we\u0027re the protocol people we\u0027re always gonna act on your eyes eye our eyes are totally gonna be a presentation layer construct this lasted less than five seconds as XML namespaces immediately used our eyes rather than your eyes as identifiers and they leaked immediately and everybody wanted to treat them as if they were their own construct and not your eyes so it was it was a great example of the attempt to separate out the concept of the user interface or the presentation layer of format from the protocol piece because it just didn\u0027t work at all maybe that was because we were doing it and we were mostly protocol people but I think it\u0027s kind of unhelpful for us to say this is a user interface problem and and since we\u0027re not good at it we we\u0027re gonna try and create an interface between the thing we\u0027re good at and that other thing and let somebody else take care of other thing because our experiences things just leak out the other point I I kind of want to make here is that I\u0027ve had some very good discussions with the Unicode consortium folks I think they understand to some degree the extent to which what we want and what they want have some conflicts and one very critical part of it is they assume the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:41",
    "text": "presence of context we do not have there are a lot of cases in which what they really care about is the ability of a local script community or a local language community to use a specific script to express a particular language and so a single script may be used with multiple languages or even language families and the result of that is in order to figure out things like matching in in real context you often have to know not just what script is in use but what language community is using that script for what language and sometimes what era it is if you\u0027ve got historical documents to work with and we look at our own systems which are primarily around known item search or matching for things like passwords or user names or DNS labels and that\u0027s simply not context we have in order to resolve this problem their view of what we should do is change our systems to incorporate that context our problem is there are some considerations that we have like the route of the DNS itself we\u0027re establishing what that context is would require both a lot of political will and people well outside of either of our rooms if we\u0027re really gonna tackle this I think we can\u0027t assume that we\u0027re tackling it with the systems we have nap we have to really be willing to say what are we gonna change about how very fundamental things in our namespaces and applications work if we\u0027re really gonna pull this in so I think I don\u0027t wish to argue with John at all that this is important work but I see no hope at all that a special review team could say this DNS thing is going to get replaced and have legitimacy and I I would fear in fact that even a small working group would have the same problem okay so we\u0027ll put Pete our jabber scrappy at the microphone now be present ik again um I just want to defend one thing I said from a point that Andrew made that which is not unreasonable by the way I\u0027m not suggesting that what we do is try and join together harder right that we work harder at getting together or something and I want to be perfectly frank here the problem that we\u0027ve seen consistently with trying to interact the Unicode consortium is we do it so far in a very formal way using things that look like liaison statements and such and there are personalities involved and quite often from either side the response by those personalities is the other side is an idiot and sometimes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:45",
    "text": "that\u0027s true in both directions what I think I\u0027m suggesting is that we need to have folks from the Unicode consortium come into this circle and vice versa that we actually do figure out ways within each set of procedures to insert folks into those procedures and actually say no the answer you\u0027re doing it wrong is not an acceptable outcome in either organization and I can\u0027t remember the last time that I\u0027ve seen certain senior leadership and Unicode consortium here and I don\u0027t even know what well there\u0027s that and I don\u0027t even know what the mechanism for us to participate Unicode consortium is all right so John I don\u0027t see you in the queue so I\u0027m going to go ahead and go through the the room key Leslie\u0027s and blessed eagle so um I think we\u0027re not ready for that Pete I think we actually to John\u0027s point into some of the points had been elaborated in the room today we don\u0027t actually know what we want from Unicode we don\u0027t actually know what we want to do I think that what I\u0027m hearing in part is that we should actually take the phrase Unicode consortium off the table and sit back and have a rethink about all right now that we\u0027ve gone through and tried these different approaches to things which worked very very small lists which didn\u0027t and why and and what are our requirements going forward and that sounds exceedingly painful I will observe that pain is conserved we can either keep having this conversation over and over again and making no progress or we can step back and do the architecture thing and and try to think about what do we actually need to re-engineer and and change in our approach to things so that we can accommodate accommodate these needful things and then we can have the improve our dialogue with the Unicode consortium or whoever else and I take that back to John\u0027s earlier remark that we\u0027re you know we\u0027re pretty good at designing protocols and teasing apart requirements and whatnot so maybe that\u0027s what we should actually do okay John if it\u0027s okay Joe that\u0027s got one other person thank you so we\u0027ll let Joe speak and then hand it back to John Joe Hildebrand so I\u0027ve got up to say roughly what Ted did at the end which is one thing we haven\u0027t tried adequately is listening to the feedback that the Unicode consortium has given us in terms of what their design was intended to do we\u0027ve taken the approach that backward compatibility overall allows us to sort of not explore some of the design space in terms of moving forward one of the ways the potential ways that is merely horrendously difficult merely horrible "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:47",
    "text": "in terms of the long term consequences to the internet merely horrible would be to actually start thinking about how you would express different labels of an identifier marked up appropriately with ocal script etc and then using that as a part of the context it would be awful and getting the user interface right for that would be even harder but it is least an approach that is potentially might one day 20 years from now bear fruit I am NOT suggesting that I want to work on that but that this is one of the things that we haven\u0027t tried that is not really on the list okay thanks Joe okay John I\u0027m giving the new floor bank yeah I find these discussions very interesting and a little bit helpful but a few observations the first is that this issue about differences in assumptions about context that the Ted mention is a much better explanation of of the comment I made earlier about identifiers with that with that with or without language context but we\u0027ve been there before and we\u0027ve discussed it and we discussed it with UTC or at least its leadership and we\u0027ve had Unicode leadership and membership participating in some of these discussions in years past worth trying again probably but we should not pretend this has never been tried in either Ted\u0027s version or or Pete\u0027s I didn\u0027t anticipate this review team trying to place the DNS my concern there is that while we are trying to figure out I do something broader in architectural if in fact we\u0027re up to doing that we\u0027ve got some immediate problems which may need solving or patching and taking those immediate problems and saying F after we have boiled an ocean or two we will get back to them it\u0027s probably not a practical solution even if it\u0027s attempting one and the the special review team notion had really had to do with that patching process rather rather than with architecture so I understand your comment I think about backward compatibility but remember that the one the biggest single issue we\u0027ve had with backward compatibility was that certain people associated with the Unicode consortium decided that idna 2008 was worth sabotaging because it\u0027s explicit decision was made that some small number "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:47",
    "text": "of characters couldn\u0027t be backward compatible and their rules about stability have often been part of the problem here because those rules prevent discussions about how things might be tweaked to work better because once a decision is made in a broad number of areas and a decision can\u0027t be changed I\u0027m very sympathetic to that point of view from other parts of my life but there are backward compatibility problems here and they lie at least as much on that side is on the other side I think again taking a different tack on Ted statement I think I think we\u0027ve got got symmetrical problems here in terms of our vocabulary and assumptions I certainly agree describing them as being entirely about printing ah is is is is misleading might have been correct a very long time ago is not correct now but but there\u0027s a large difference between there and these contextual issues to give a specific example from from a variation on Joe\u0027s remarks we couldn\u0027t code all that stuff with identifiers but then the question would be how to use it and how users would encode it when they see something in passing and we\u0027ve discussed that for years and years and years and reached no conclusions and involved unicode people and they haven\u0027t been helpful I\u0027ve involved w3c people and they have sometimes been helpful but the problem spaces are a little different and that\u0027s the most positive view of this mess which one can take he says the problem spaces will definitely have to be seen differently and then some adjustments being made at the boundaries so this is Joe Hildebrand I just I stood up to make sure that we\u0027re not necessarily constraining the technical design space with our memories of historical personnel or personality issues that we might have ascribed to certain people in certain places one of the things that we I think that we can at least do on our side is try and be as good a potential partner in this space as possible and one of the things that would work toward that is us being able to at least listen to some of the technical input that we\u0027ve seen from a variety of places and Joe I don\u0027t I do not disagree with you but we\u0027ve been doing a lot of listening actually and and there\u0027s been a lot of input from that direction incorporated into some of our existing work so people have to be last and then we need to figure out where we take the discussion next Pete I\u0027m Pete Resnick in response "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:48",
    "text": "to a little of what John said in a little what Leslie said one of my concerns is that if we start going down the path independently of what is the problem space and I agree with Leslie we haven\u0027t gone through that exercise and me too but if we start doing that without unicode consortium and people involvement up front we\u0027re going to end up making certain assumptions as we develop that design of the problem statement where and I can hear certain people\u0027s voices in my head right now saying you\u0027re doing it wrong and it\u0027s going to be on some underpinning issue that we assumed we need to solve and I think part of the issue is we need to convince unicode folks that those issues are real issues and we need to address them and figure out at least a common language to describe what problems were trying to solve so I don\u0027t know how we do this completely independently for any period of time and get to a solution agreed so it sounds like we have we\u0027re running very short on time here but I don\u0027t I don\u0027t hear a close to this discussion so would we like to take this to the art list or one of the high DNA lists or what would it be appropriate next step here for the interested community or John of course you still have you\u0027re still on so if you have a suggestion well the the the existing mailing lists are very good for discussing or not so good for some of the reasons for discussing the technical protocol issues but the immediate issue is that we\u0027ve got these drafts floating around we\u0027ve got people dependent on those trusts being resolved in some fashion or another and we have another way to process them so Barry\u0027s at the mic and there\u0027s a powwow of 80s so please go ahead yes I\u0027m standing in a circle of three IDs who are all just sort of whispering they\u0027re saying they\u0027re really just saying I run this is Barry there there there\u0027s the issue of getting these three drafts dealt with and sure we can talk about that on the art list and I don\u0027t think there are any other lists that are better suited for that but there\u0027s the broader issue of what to do about the problems in the long-term and talking about it on that on the art list is not going to help us particularly I don\u0027t think that the concern that I have about forming a working group on it is that we then get a lot of people who really don\u0027t understand the issues who come and say it\u0027s simple you just have to do this and we\u0027ve seen that happen many times in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:48",
    "text": "the past so I\u0027m I really yes it was in one in you just said just fell zurich ze u zu e RI CH and you\u0027re done zi i here over here from the connait from canadian anyway so there\u0027s a lot of distractions involved in that on the other hand setting up a review team of the people who understand the issues and can go pow well on this makes it look like we\u0027re closed and we\u0027re not we want to hide something I\u0027m so I\u0027m really stuck on that the short term we just need to get these three drafts sorted out on the art list and let\u0027s do that for the longer term I don\u0027t have any better ideas than anybody else has come up with yeah it\u0027s I think what Mary said about the the treatment of these trees documents is probably quite reasonable a good way to go forward on the larger issue i what i\u0027m going to repose is that there\u0027s been a lot of input here and it\u0027s not all necessarily pointing in the same direction so I think that Ben Alexei and I would like some time to sort of put our heads together this topic and then come back to the art list with a proposal of how to move forward I\u0027ve been proposing that crying for help might be an option as well the art list is very sympathetic to cries for help unsure if you as a DS cry for help I will try to answer if I can just throw one idea that we somehow haven\u0027t managed to touch on nobody suggested an IAB workshop it is architecture okay can we said can we go with this suggestion of starting the conversation on art and let it lead where it makes sense to lead it yeah Martin Thompson um maybe not for the IAB but I\u0027ll point out that we hold this particular issue near and dear to our hearts and are actively looking at ways in which we can slice off a piece of it that could constructively be turned into something like okay work item or a workshop or a program or something like that the problem we have is the same problem that everyone has okay Barry right and this is Barry with what just was an IAB workshop on on naming and we discussed all of this stuff in circles the IAB also just closed the internationalization program because it was going around in circles and not really accomplishing anything Martin says not because we don\u0027t want to work on it which I agree with there are a lot of people want to work on it but we just don\u0027t know how ok and we are approaching out of time this other working group starts in two minutes in this same room so thank you for coming watch for this topic on the art list and we\u0027ll see you all in London so John just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:49",
    "text": "packed me in and just you just ran away I\u0027m I think we\u0027ve run out of time and I\u0027m I\u0027m I\u0027m anxious to pursue that the suggestion from the eighties and see if that leads anywhere I could say I could say some boys lavatory just waste time no go straight in okay thanks okay so this room is now HTTP if you are leaving the room please do so now without the kind discussions because we have a very tight schedule so so please let\u0027s make this transition as quick as we possibly can that includes Eric "
  }
]