[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:35",
    "text": "Good afternoon. Hi, Elet. We can see you. Can you hear us? Can you can you hear us? Yupper. Hope you guys are enjoying lovely San Francisco. I guess Alexis gets to do that a lot, Okay. We don't seem to be hearing you. Let me see. James, Yeah. Okay. I'll just keep talking for a little bit. So you can hear me. Once upon a midnight rear, Let's see here. Just a moment. Okay. Karsten can hear me. That's good. high risk Yeah. Right. Right. Is any if anybody's is anybody working on this?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:27",
    "text": "Okay. Elliot start talking again. We've got somebody on the board here. Okay. Hello. How's it going? Can you hear me? Still nothing. No. We hear we hear you now. Alright. Okay. Good afternoon. I will mute myself now that you can hear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:42",
    "text": "Yes. not off the top of my head. I think ISG is currently 1st. It's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "ISG IV files. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:33",
    "text": "what it I mean, I can make a choice that is not sitting there. Right? Miriam Lars and Colin. Other than that, we're fine."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "Okay? It's Hello? so Just to be clear, Lawrence, like, we can't hear you on the you know, On media on media. Sorry. Yeah. I didn't speak into the mic, and this mic is not doing anything. Can you hear me? better now? Yep. Yep. Yeah. You can. Okay. So maybe it's just in room that this part. Okay. So we'll use one one I was just apologizing for Myriad because she had had a presentation and has a bunch of people I wanna talk to Okay. So did you wanna start anyway, or because I I don't wanna guess when she might be able to come. Yeah. Maybe maybe we can get going for attendance. We are we're missing Maria and Colin, so, hopefully, they will join us. chat,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "any other changes to the agenda. This is split into 2 parts. The first part is explicit, our Sab of business, And then after that, there will be a second session that is Stream managers plus the RFC production center sort of combining this into one meeting because it's mostly the same people. any and Robert mentioned that he had a bit of industry manager business that he would like to take at the very beginning of that part of that section. Any other changes to the agendas? you the QR code is currently hidden, but you can find and issue it from the the agenda and the data tracker. Okay. So if there's no agenda batches, the next thing on the agenda is documented approval, there is nothing there. So we will move on to the actual source of for information, everybody has seen this. Right? But Eric Recorderla is stepping down as co chair. of the ISWG, and the ISG is replacing him with somebody and moment within feedback period. forward candidates. So that's been announced If you have feedback on the candidates, please send email. Okay. So with that, then the next topic on the agenda is where Arcep keeps its records. Yes. any problem. This is that. Maybe this is, like, Sorry. The only problem with this one is demerias got some views on it. towing over here. But in essence, I'm simply suggesting that we use data backgrounds as it was intended to be used rather than to create too many external systems of ourselves. Robert's got the details of what we can keep in day track a relatively straightforwardly, and I'm just proposing we do that. So it's not everything. It's just some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "things that I think better help in there So we already have things set up to where ballots on document if anything ever comes out of our SWG or captured in the data tracker. We have yeah. I'm sorry. We have a work that I'm doing now to capture ISgnieb statements in the data tracker, and we could capture RSAB statements exactly the same way. those would not get balloted, so that balloting of those things could go into the minutes. if we want to add ballasting of statements in general to the data tracker in the long run. Like, what were you just the the decision that we made couldn't that just be minutes from the meeting? rather than, like, a statement So this is started with the conversation that Maria had me send an email couple months ago about possible Wiki, and it was just to have a place to have all of the decisions in one place rather than having to comb through minutes for them. Oh, okay. So maybe we just have a a list of Yeah. So that's why I'm thinking maybe at least use this. long term, but decisions or something like that. But, yeah, I gotcha. Okay. That makes We can use the same mechanism. Let me just call or something else. Yeah. So I'm I'm personally in in favor of using the Zendracker rather than having a wiki, which Yeah. always tends to, like, fall behind in terms of getting up But let's maybe we'll come back to this when you know, having having a wiki to keep things like you know, what time people are arriving for a particular meeting, sure. But Elliott, what are your your views on this? That's the other stream owner who's here. You're muted."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "That was my fault. I was gonna say, Lars, I'm sorta easy on this one. I I like the idea of keeping things in the data tracker so long as There is a way to consolidate A view of decisions that we're making and statements that we're making. that those are my parameters. If we can get then that's great. Okay. Thanks. Alright. Thanks. Okay. So we tentatively have rough consensus of Minuscolonandand Yria. we'll see what My suggestion, we we just confirm it on the list Sure. Minden, there was some for discussion for discussion for Okay. Not not to speak for Maria, but from having previous conversations with her about this don't think that it occurred to either of us that the the statements thing that you're working on would at place to do this, but I'm guessing that she would be fine with that because she's also pro moving stuff to the data tracker. So Okay. I I guess that takes us to other business. Yeah. because the next things are explicitly stream manager, and we're missing 2 of the stream managers. So I don't know if we can actually Like, the same thing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:21",
    "text": "Hey, Cindy. Could you the stream manager agenda. Elliot, while you're reading, I will add you the question I intended for other business, it sounds like I'll just need to ask stream managers us as applying them adhoc. the ISG would like for me to change the data tracker so that individuals can post a new revision of a draft once it's been approved and is in in the stream that they would have to ask the secretariat to do a manual post instead. I would like to find out if I should just do this across all the strings for for background. Right? This displaced on a request from the RTC because they've seen a spike in the revisions that partners are pushing in after something is We don't quite know why this is happening when like, 2 to 3x compared to last year. Specifically, it would be when something is in the RFC editor queue. Right? Yeah. ERC letter here may have started work on it already. Yep. Yep. I'm I'm fine with that. Good ideas. The other reasons I much wanna have is sort of ask p the r s 3 dot r s w ditcher in the room. What do you think might come from them to us, 1st or next door. Do you have a guess, or is it to hard to tell before you met the short answer is it's too hard to tell. The the slightly longer answer is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "only thing truly in the pipeline is the XML document at the moment, which is a problem in and of itself that that that's the only thing in the pipeline. So one of the agenda items on ours WG today and today, Thursday. is how to get things unstuck moving, what needs to be done to make that happen. Miriya and I just had a conversation yesterday about sort of strategies that might involve more help from the chairs. So yeah, I don't have any great answer for you. Alright. we we had sort of started and but and we talked a little bit about the Where do we keep records discussion, but let's go maybe back to that. Not at New Year's here. I'd click a call into, but I am So I think the sort of at least sort of Elliot and I So so, basically, the data tracker will have functionality to not only show minutes, but also have a that can be presented. list of decisions and and that should be in the data tracker. What I was talking about is just having a little bit of scratch base where we And kind of organize our internal procedures. That means, like, writing down somewhere how we come to a decision because currently, the only place where we have written this down is in an email. And the other thing is also how we select the chair. That's also something we only have written down in an email. So at the end, this would be mostly for, I think, Cindy making sure that we have documented what our procedures are. And that should not be in a data tracker. I that's something that we kind of traditionally don't put in the data tracker. I don't think the ISG, the IV, or anybody has it in a data tracker. it doesn't necessarily have to be in the data tracker because it's more for our internal consumption than for the external community. I think the the main reason why the other bodies haven't done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "because the data tracker was so much different animal like that. Would you would you meet move all your stuff from the IHG into the data here? No. But this is a new group that's starting now, and I think we should just like, use the the best tooling we have available at the moment. But we have we have that we Right? And, like, if you want to have something where people can easily access changers, and then the keys are might be looking. I mean, I guess it boils down to this. if if you don't mind my asking. which is if the If the data tracker can support you know, essentially, the creation of of a process you know, various process files a in a and, essentially, a centralized place to show that fun stuff, including decisions, and essentially is a wiki as far as I'm concerned. But if it can't support it, maybe we need a wiki. Again, I'm not I'm not This is not This is our toughest problem. Life's pretty good. At the moment, I guess it is. So I think that our decisions should really go in the data tracker because that's something that is for the community consuming. should be easy to find there. Right? But everything else is not don't know what's the concern about setting up a Wiki. As I said, I think the Wiki will be mostly used by Cindy disrepair It's it's something that you when we look at the ISG wiki, right, and all the crap that's on there. I'm sorry. Sorry. Yeah. But, I mean, what's the problem about it? like, as soon as long as there's still something useful on there, it's fine. overtime and let's But, anyway, I think if we can use the data tracker for everything we should, I'm not gonna like, complain anymore, but I think it's it's overkill to have a Wiki for, like, 2 things. Why? We keep we get cheap It needs to be made to end. Yeah. But that's why we have secretrades, for it. that's put on on a Google Doc or something. That is kind of much more of a mess from my point of view. I I really don't understand what's the concern about a week is. Sorry. it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "another thing that isn't the data tracker that we need to maintain for this group for, like, two pieces of information. Yeah. But the wiki is there. You have an account. This, like It gonna have No. No. would be a new wiki instance because it's No. It's gonna have Okay. It has role based right restrictions for this particular That's actually something we should discuss. one of But the rules are on the data tracker. Yeah. and the data tracker log and is Houston Wiki. So we we actually, the original question was, do we do we want to create a wiki that is maintained by the RFC editor. or do we wanna use the ATF wiki? And I think that one, you know, I I wouldn't wanna do that because for the IETF wiki, everything is that we credential, you can just use it. That's And I think and, like, I have no concerns about because we're also using the data tracker, which is also an IETF response rate. Can we try the data tracker? and see if it works. Where do you wanna put it? under the RCEP. There's there's a group. Right? There's tabs on the top. There's gonna be have list of decisions that we're thinking that are there. There's the membership is there. we're gonna have a And page with you wanna create a weekly and then create a procedure procedures if you wanna call that tech. So It would be half it's on the weekend. It's basically a thing where and then a field. It's a field. of the model. or something. with some Robert, do you have anything to add to this pain. the nature of the material that Maria's championing so far is pretty static and something like that we could put into the data tracker as a field. If it's something just the secretariat, like, looks at and updates every couple of years. thin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "tying into the data tracker makes sense if it is dynamic data that's changing every meeting that people are trying to keep updated. and multiple people need to be editing it to make it right then, yeah, go use a corner of of the Wiki. using the corner of the IETF wiki is fine. Don't get too balled up in access rights. you know, the fact that some other random IETF person could come in and do graffiti on your wiki well you know, that's what a wiki is. I mean, the other use case for Wiki would be to Yeah. create our gender, instead of also doing it on the mangas, but, like, It's not an urgent use case. I I could prefer that would be either at Aikettle or from No. They like, the items on the agenda. Yeah. Yeah. No. But Yeah. It's gonna be we use email, but it's like -- Already never looking at the So the final agenda goes goes in the data tracker because that's where the meeting is announced but, like, creating the agenda, giving the people the ability to add stuff to the agenda. I will say from experience with the IAB that people rarely add stuff to the Wiki, and they're more likely to do it over email anyway. So So that means the we want the tool request to the data tracker to get us a digital tab. have it We Yeah. think so. I Okay. We came to the notes. That's fine. any other business. We didn't a little bit of any others. So I'm not sure. No. No. I'm just looking I'm just looking that we don't have like, I'm not sure we wanna talk about it, but maybe something to keep in mind is that this question about what's policy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "comes up very often, and maybe that's also a question that we need to consider at some point. I don't think I wanna discuss it now. but I think Pete Resnick has some views on that and wants to bring that into the RSWG, and I think we should wait for them to sort themselves a little bit on that. It's a little bit in in the sort of I know it if I see it kinda worry. Right? So There's also the the the other wrinkle is that People mix up policy for the RC series with policy or the IPF stream or not or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, or not, Right? And the IETF stream is under the the hospices of the ISGE. and so on the other streams, they have their stream manager, sorry, or stream moment. So so that that's, I think, a a bigger point of confusion loss. So I think Okay. Like, the questions were general, but reason why I bring it up is because think it's at the moment, it's very hard for the RPC to figure out if they have a problem to figure out. Is it policy question? Is it not? Is it more practical? Where do we need to go? Who do we need to ask because it's all very unclear. And that's something that we need to get better over time, but maybe we just get better over time when we get more experience with perfect. I mean, obviously, you can raise it ICEAP or with the chairs, for example, and then just informally ask what do you what do you think? And then little little little going to the mini. Right? the the only other thing that's on the RCEP would would need to make a like like, production related decision if it's something urgent. Otherwise, it would if it's policy, then go to the RSWG. And if it's a thing that's just related to one stream with So but that's actually kind of the advice I've been trying to give and let me see if that's actually the one we wanna give is that whenever they have a problem and they are sure about where to go. They can always come to our step first, and we will give them also advise where to go. the RPC. Yep. It's the date. Yes. I agree."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "like, our step is the first contact point for everything, and they shouldn't shy So, doesn't need to be. I mean, they can also talk to Pete's. Right? No. No. I mean, if they are short where they wanna go, but, like, there's a lot of uncertainty at the moment that they don't know where to go, and then they might not go anywhere. So just -- We have an example of a couple of questions, but I'm sort of having a hard time. speaking about the 3 abstracts. the Okay. Microphone, please. Sorry. It's on now. I was I was was saying I think the discussion that Alexis had on the list about the archival links, a good example of like, point of confusion. Right? Is it policy or is it not policy? a lot of what I saw on that list was policy, if we say it's policy. So it's and support for that view. So it's hard to figure out, like, where that line is. Yeah. And it also depends on how you phrase it. Right? So I I would say that the the question whether RFCs should strive to have links that are of archival quality, I they they don't 404. to get the policy question, how we implement that. Like, whether it'd be linked to archive.org or something else, and we snapshot the web page ourselves. I think that is a good one. And that's also something that's clearly visible for screen. So it doesn't fall into setup. So but, again, like, the question was about gender problem because I think this this discussion started on our of the interest because Like, I think you were assuming there's no policy question involved. and then it kind of dripped over into RSWG. because there might be a quality question. And then, like, you also had the feeling that you wanna discuss it with the stream managers. Right? So it's like it's just bubbling around everywhere. So I went to our interest to to see what people had to say about it. Yeah. because it's a wider group. and it it feels like a A shift."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "right, kind of a general shift. Once I had gathered that information, then I took it to RSWG because I was not clear which parts of this were policy and which weren't And the the kind of resulting conversation wasn't particularly clear, to me about what, you know, some people were say you know, like, people had lots converse conversation about 2 of the three points, in particular, Los conversation about implementation. I don't know which levels of implementation are considered policy. Right? if if, for example, linking to the Internet archive, So instead of Perma cc, instead of our own version of whatever. If we consider that to be policy, versus implementation, I can totally see that somebody might consider that to be policy. So that's why I did it that way. I don't know if it was the right way necessarily. But I'm not saying it's right or wrong with the average like, we don't know what the right way is. So that's It's a confusing pattern. Right? that. So it it it it implicit in going to the RSAB first, though, is the is the idea that the RSAB can decide what his policy and what isn't, and I don't think he can, only the RSWG can. And so it has that's why Alexis has to go through that route that goes to the RSWG. I mean, I think a more I don't mean to be critical people. I think perhaps more efficient RSWG process where we could eliminate what is you know, What isn't policy? would suit quite as well. But I don't think we can come to the RSAB and say, you know, is this or these policies. I don't think that's So hang on a sec, guys. This this was contemplated in the enabling document that we have. Right? in which The RPC has a set of governing policies and RFCs today. if the RPC has a question has to its authority to act then it can ask the r the rstab about that Right? We may not be it it this is most specifically around"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "particular RFCs, But but I wanted to turn that run and pay, I think it's said, piece t Are there activities that you are blocked on because of wait. Oh, you perceive you have a lack of authority. And if so, what are they, and what is the impact And if we can sort of set them up and knock them down that way, it might what we we can't the RSAB may not be able to solve the problem, but we can at least help you maybe rephrase the problem to their RSWG. sometimes you might be able to solve the problem if we if if there's a way to interpret if if we're allowed to interpret the the rules in in a specific case. like, if there's a document in questions. I don't know if I'm being very clear, but that's my intent Yeah. And I just wanted to add that, I think, this point that Jay made, we we can't decide about policy is not true because when it's clearly in the model that if they come if there's a question, where it's not clear, we actually have to make a decision about does it need a new policy, for example? Do we need to bring it to the r's w w g or whatever? So this These are all implicit questions about is their policy or not. I don't think this is So our decision to make. in the sense that so so if a production radio thing arises. Right? So we have to make this decision because it's like first of all, if if there's any problem, we, 1st of all, have to decide, is there policy? Is it is it a policy? And if there's a policy, is there an IRC that gives guidance about it, and then we can give guidance. And if there's no r c, then we should we should bring it to the r established UT, but, like -- -- running the approval route. No. I don't know. The r staff is the approval board. four things coming out of the RSWG. We're not the -- No. But there's a second function No. There is a no. No. There's a second function in that we are helping the RPC to interpret RFCs. And when we're doing this, we have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "decide about, is this policy or not? But if we interpret our seats, it it's not about whether something is policy or like, What does this mean? What does this text Yeah. But it's then but then there's also the case where there might be something missing where there policy missing, we bring it back to the RSW. And that's the point where we you know, where we have to say to the RPC. Actually, there is a here, so you have to bring it to the RSWG. Or we have to say to them, there's no it's your own implementation decision, you should just go ahead. So Pete had his hand up, but I also have something I wanna say after Pete. I I love quoting chapter 1st. Section 2, If issues arise with the implementation of particular policies, the RPC, brings those issues to the RSAB which interprets the policies and provides interim guidance to the RPC informing the RSWG of those interpretations. So Here's my gut. as one of the chairs here, if the RPC says we're not clear whether there is or is not policy on what we're thinking The RSAB can say, there's no bloody policy on this. We have no interpretation I hope for the most part that's not the answer that's given. I hope for the most part, the RCEB might say something even if there was no specific policy. Well, In general, the RPC is allowed by current policies to do x, y, and zed. and end, off you go. But if you think that's not clear, we will the RSAB will bring that to the RSWG and say, you guys need to be clear on this because we are interpreting the absence of a policy as they are allowed to go forward and do this or they or they can't do that. So in terms of sort of the order of how this would go,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "I would hope that the RPC comes to the RSAB The RCEB makes a decision about whether there is in fact a policy not whether some particular thing is a policy, whether there is policy that covers the ourselves advice to the RPC. And if there's gap, then the RSAB comes to the RSWG and says, we've got a gap here because we can't give a reasonable interpretation to the RPC. case. Right? So there if there is policy, then we have to, like, interpret this policy. If there's no policy, there is a question of, like, is that even a space where policy makes sense, or is it just an implementation decision? and that is also feedback we can give to the RPC. So I I think the the current document is relatively silent on this on the the is their policy there or not gap if it's the view of the RSWG that the OSAT can make a decision on that. I'm comfortable with that. So the no. But the problem I'm trying to solve is that I wanna make things should things work. Right? And that means the RPC needs to know what to do. And, like, believe it's easier for them to, like, come to one body and get some guidance and then move to the next body rather than for each thing. They have a question on they just, like, having endless discussion about what to do next. So can I re say back what I think you're suggesting? which is that if I or anybody has something that they want to bring I don't know anybody, the RPC. I'm not clear. Has a an idea that they think is probably could be policy. should come to RSAB First asked him. Are we sad to make a decision about whether they think there is already policy. or, it is something that should be taken to the RSOEG. And then and only then go to the RSO have like, I don't wanna restrict the RPC you changed that to suggestion? No. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "do anything they wanna do. Right? So if they are clear that they need a policy and so on, they can direct you or to m r w g. I just wanted, like, what or, like, a softest case where it's confusion, where it's really not fear what to do. And in this case, I actually want to welcome our production center to always come to us at initially have a discussion here and not be shy about it, basically. Yeah. And and my concern about the discussion, we should just be careful about how we have these discussions because they can get a little too abstract And I think what would be helpful is As we go into Prague in particular, It would be good if the RPC just provide us, you know, Any a list of that of and I see us as the as R7 doesn't have to just be RSW. You can say this to the r RSWG 2. list of activities that you think are are are suffering due to a lack of decision or a lack of authority on your part. If there's if there are are specific activities around that, that you wanna undertake and you feel you can't undertake or you feel you don't have the authority or you or or or you have a question as to your authority, then I think you should just bring those forward. You don't even have to wait till Prague. Just just bring them forward specifically. That allows us at at the RSAB to do the research to determine and answer it in an interim way, and allows the RSWG to make decide to make a decision. And the RSWG GE's decision output is an RFC. Right? Or or something that heads towards us towards an RFC. So I think it that will get us out of the abstract and and and any specific. So Let me give it I'll I'll I can drill down a little bit more if you want in terms how this might apply in the case, say, of archival links, the the the discussion that was there if you want or something like that. But maybe I'll stop and and because I'm talking a little"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "Yeah. I I think that's a good proposal. I'm I'm hoping you're taking still something away from this discussion. But, effectively, we're saying is we continue this and, like, get more experience about it. That's okay. That's okay. option. So and I would say when it is crystal clear to you all that there's a policy gap. coming to the RSWG makes sense. Yep. That that's perfectly reasonable. Obviously. there was no policy interest for this right now. -- archival links was interesting because there were about what was policy, what wasn't policy, what could be done without approval, what couldn't be done without approval. And I think the RSAB might be a good first step to sort of at least tease out okay. Look. these things you can do under current policy. And so off you go if you wanna do those. If you wanna wait, these things need policy Clearly, we can't, as Arcev, approve you doing that, without there being a written policy. So maybe let's either they or you go to the RSWG and say, hey. This is where we need some more guidance from you all. I think what happened in the archival links discussion. Nice little feedback there. What happened in the archival links discussion is, of course, as soon as the question is so broad as you guys might need to do something here, figure it out. Of course, that introduces a level of mayhem into RSWG because it's the whole community. And so we had a little trouble kind of focusing in on that discussion So I think turning the loop backwards for these kinds of questions probably worth it. Okay. Okay. And and by the way, the unicode decision and discussion was a perfect example of how things went well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Yeah. My opinion. I mean, it was a little bumpy at times, but It really it really went smooth. The RPC prepare prepared a really good Question for us with good research, good pointers, and we could take it from there. It was It was great. Yeah. But I think that's the easy case. There was an RC which was unclear. That's exactly what supposed do. I have my nurse side question because you to the ROC interest, meaning this is just, like, reaching more people of the community, is that is that actually true? Do we know that? I don't know. I guess I thought from the context than it would be. But -- It makes sense that maybe something we should look into. Okay. But I think at this point, we're actually if there's no any not any other other business. are actually closing the AR sub meeting. So thank you for that part of the meeting. and we're moving on to the second part. I think you should. Okay. Yeah. calling So the ISG has asked that I changed the data tracker so that the submission endpoint will not accept new revisions from numbers even automatically if the document is already in the RSC and continue. But if there's a reason for such a thing to happen, it should come through the secretariat as Manuel owes So I was going to ask if I should just do this for all Yes. that point is And chance, Yes. answer the question, RFC interest has 398 To subscribers, RSWG has 48 subscribers. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:09",
    "text": "So which is not Can't hear people. Mike was saying that he thought that this meeting was open and that this part was part of the RZAT meeting, and that try to clarify that this is a meeting that we've always had, and it's about production related issues. between the streams and the RPC. Okay. the stream owners are not necessarily 666666 It's not k. I would just ask if we could get going, though. Use use you're very loud. was asking whether we can keep going, and I think we can now. And I expect we're gonna have Mike speak up in RWG about a universal statement, by the way, Lars. I am very loud. That's Okay. Who runs this part? I think this is us. Alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Alright. So let me just move to the next one. This one is is somewhat what we covered at the ISG yesterday. sorry. Oh, sorry. Oh, sorry. nights, We really wanted to hear from the streams. if you have any issues, are related to RPC or if there's anything that we should be aware of, then that you would like to discuss And if there's anything upcoming that we should be aware of. So, for example, large clusters, that are inbound or sleeping like that. me just go around the streams and here if there's anything Nothing from my side. I don't see any large clusters. We do we had a bunch of tele chats in the last half year that were pretty light. and it looks like has to be reversed, and then now, again, pretty full. So you can expect that the usuals, stream of, like, 400 pages or whatever. so that that's likely gonna happen. Can't hear calling. He doesn't have the mic, but there's nothing Okay. Yeah. On the independent side, first, my thanks to the other streams for accommodating the fast processing of RFC 9446, and thanks RPC for that I hope that there can be some discussion. We'll try and drum things up a little bit and IAB open. and then the HRPC about that. the from a prospective of upcoming efforts. I have no no concerns about anything that's been done, just compliments. the Upcoming stuff from the independent stream were were not moving at a brisk pace. We have a couple of documents that are gonna come through. So I think the ISG has or 3 documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "right now, I think maybe 2 are in front of you, maybe? and I'm expect maybe another 3 or 4 by the end of the year. And and so from an And if from an RPC standpoint, I I don't think you'll see more than 3 documents from me between now November, at least, maybe maybe that'll be the entire year. depending on the authors. Great. One of those is Okay. Okay. So the next slide is just showing where we are with submissions and publications, so on track for similar numbers to the last few years. Nothing surprising. I don't think and then moving on to the next one. We talked with ISG a little bit about this. The first one clusters, If you have a cluster coming in, it would be really helpful if you provide the order in which they should be numbered, we current process is We read through the documents, try to figure out based on the references, what the reading order should be or the dependency order and sometimes it's not correct. So it's really helpful if you can provide that information up front and just adding a you know, sending us an email or putting a in the the document action itself is either way is fine. whatever is easiest. next point here is what Robert already discussed. So I think we can just skip over that one. The and possibly skip over this one also. So what was working well, the example that we had was the same as what Elliott pointed out was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "We thought that the the way non ASCII characters was handled was a a pretty good example of how the model is supposed to work. we've been taking things to our path to to work things out and get some input about how things can work or how we how they can be fixed. And the area of concern is what we already discussed, which that the the lines between policy and operation can be puzzy. So I think we'll from our point of view, it's just to say that we consider things more thoroughly. Like, we think about We don't just assume something is operational these days. Right? Like, we have to give it a little bit more thought and it takes a little bit longer for us to figure out what the right venue is. And so what I'm hearing is ask when those questions come up ask. and that's fine. It's just a comment on this slide. if you present this in the next meeting, plea I think it should go into the RSAAP meeting. Okay. would like to hear from you, though. Are there other areas that you think I are working well or that a quick reaction to what you said earlier. So I actually think you absolutely should assume that you know lots original, but it's because otherwise, if if you bring these gray area things to the product community, you get more conversations like we just had on our table Right? So because if you you would even if you ask about something that's clearly operational, you're still gonna get feedback. Right. Right. Right? So in RWG. Well, I guess I mean, really, that to me, that is the hard part, is that they have said on that list, right, that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "it's policy. We say it's policy, and there was support around that But it did no contest has been called and and and and anybody can say whatever and people have strong opinions are all over Okay. Okay. I agree with that. You're the RPC. Right? You you don't know what for personal stuff. the community will certainly knock our operation. So there's one more point to the ISWG is started to write our fees. Right? So if there's a policy, The only thing they can do is write an RC, or I could draft and then have a discussion about this draft. If nobody is writing enough, then they should not really discuss it. I mean, like because there's a few discussion, but at some point, somebody to say, okay. I know what I need to write. I write it up, and then they can tape it up. Okay. it might be might be one of you, right, if you're sure you want, like, And Mhmm. Mhmm. But what I'm saying is they are not supposed to make any kind of policy decision was out riding in a draft and aggressive. Right. So nothing has been decided by a couple they are it would need to get approved by them and by us -- Right. -- that is false. spreads spreads just because, you know, somebody said this and then another email doesn't Okay. So we have been discussing with the RPC and with Alexis. how much the how much RBC or Alexa should be writing drafts here. because previously, of course, we had Heather who would write draft you know, quite prolifically in order to address these things. and we've lost that particular model now. So, you know, there's a little bit of a period if we rely on the community too much about these things. So that's why, you know, we're discussing how much But I'm not sure I mean, this is No. Again, her ass up with whatever, but it doesn't matter. I'm not sure that was the model that was intended like, my expectation was always that, like, the the RPC or Alexis or whatever would be active in writing draft because they have most of the expertise Oh, yeah. Yes. I'm sure it was intended. Yes. But we've just got to migrate to that position. all. But, I mean, that's also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:04",
    "text": "really want to incorrect you to do it because I think that's one of the reasons why there is so the progress in ours w at the moment because nobody's picking up the 10 for these small things. and, like, you would be really the most qualified person there or, like, group there to do this. Right. Understood. I guess my My impression of it was that I needed to figure out what was policy that I needed right in RFC about So so he's saying yes, and you're shaking your head, which to me is just kind of, like, the other way around here. at the point, Now you write it down, Then the group can decide, do we wanna pick it up? Is there a policy And then, like, when they pick it up, then there should be a policy. Otherwise, they should not be allowed to pick That's Yeah. That's very heavyweight. part of heavy weight. Yeah. I mean, like, if you're if you're not certain, if policy. Right? You don't wanna write everything. But if you have a desire that you need something that needs there to terrified. Then you have to write it up first and then the decision. But if there's a policy comes at the end effectively, final decision. the Yeah. I understand that. I I guess I'm I'm pushing back, though, against the idea of writing an IRC before I've understood whether something is policy. what I think that we just talked about in the previous section. is that Now what we're suggesting is I would come to our SAP first ask them to determine whether something is policy or not, basically. and then go to the write an RFC submitted to RSOUG, etcetera, if that is in fact -- So there's also there's also this and this site point about you don't want to put you generally don't want to bake any kind of operational practices into an r c because you don't wanna tie it down into an r c too much. This is a luxury, and we have, like, with all our processed documents that we sometimes are at a point where you see, like, oh, this process document says there has to be web page under this link, and this link doesn't anymore, these kind of things. Right? That happens all the time. So this is, like, a general desire."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "So I think if you actually have something, you can try to write it down in a way that you don't specified too much details the in a document, and then there's nothing left, then there's no policy. Right? If you actually can level it up to something that is useful without specifying the details, then there might be some policy. Right. I mean, I thought that's what the email to the RSWG was. me literally going, here's the the concept of I'm trying to do. None of it was specifically, okay. And we're gonna use this system in this way, and, weren't some case you know, there Yeah. I mean, like, it sounds a little bit heavy, but a draft shouldn't be heavy. So, like, happens if you send an email. Everybody starts designing a system. if you write a draft, I think the feedback would be a little bit different because then people If you write comment about, like, other things that you written down in the draft, write things to write down in the draft. And the draft will be, like, percentages. Like, like, there's no reason to have, like, very long documents or whatever. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I had a conversation with Pete about this yesterday, Alexis. I know you've had a conversation with him about this. I know he's had some further thought about how to how to how to to buy how to draw the line little bit and This is the I I'm gonna class this as startup cost. of this process, 5 55 We're just sort of learning a little bit here. And can I can I encourage you to go back to to Pete on this one too because I know he has further thoughts to help you out on this Yeah. Absolutely. I have a conversation with him this afternoon. Oh, good. Good. Good. So I'm encouraging you to do things that probably happened in the past tense. Okay. Okay. I mean, don't get me wrong. I don't have the perfect answer here. I'm just No. No. No. It's it's fine. I think we're all just sort of trying to figure out how to No. make things move forward. So so Yeah. It's it's startup cost. You know, we'll we'll we'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "we'll break through the inertia, and, you know, probably in the next 6 months is my guess. Okay. So moving to the next one. Just an update on the GitHub experiments we've been doing. These are the most recent veryments. We originally planned to find documents to work with in XML. But we were asked to work in markdown for these. So even though it's not markdown working in markdown is not current part of our current process. we did do that for these experiments. And We've done experiments with the IETF documents and with and we have one in process now. That's from the IRTF stream. I guess I just wanted to make sure that all of the streams are agreeable that they would like to possibly use GitHub at some point. And then and my question is, do you want to like, should we target your document for experimentation so you can provide more input a particular process. And and I think once we know a little bit more about that process look like, we we we'll have people that wanna do this. So I don't so I I see no signs that that there's a desire to stop using guitar from the IETF side. So quite the opposite. question was whether we see continued The interest from our streams in using GitHub. 4 Yeah. Perfect. So for IAP, we have all our documents on GitHub. So and if you think that one of these documents is actually easier to experiment with, I think, we will be very because we have IAB GitHub, and we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "all of them there. So I can't click on the link there But are those links into an RPC GitHub repo, or are they into some other me RPC repo. Okay. So if you go there, you can look at the read me's see what the process was for these documents. Okay. Yeah. I I mean, as long as you guys are comfortable in either markdown or XML depending on what the authors are using, mean, I don't see a problem. I Are you interested in participating in a future experiment? If if an author is, I'm happy with them. I'm happy to participate. if if it advances the, you know, the efforts that they are PC, I don't see a problem with that either. As long as the authors are agreeable, One quick question. So I think that was one of the kind of complaints is that you create an own repo. and Is is is the main reason for that because you want to have, like, a closed group working on this and not, like, a whole working group or what's the reason? It's partly that. but also what I found when we go. look at those other repos I I have forked their repo And sometimes there's, like, hidden instructions in there, that surprised me. So and I don't know how they work. if that makes sense. Sorry. Sorry, Nuria. To understand this, you need to come to the session and see the presentation. There's a 15 minute presentation that explains the answer for that question. it's not something that I I think I think it's simply now. But the -- CPG, just a moment. I I I have to jump. I I just wanna wish all colleagues in a very successful meeting. I'll see you guys later in the week. Thank you. Good to see you. 7 But I think what they what they would prefer is not even fucking the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "is just working directly on the repo. Yeah. And it's all covered in the presentation. It's there's a lot of it. So yeah. I think a lot a lot of the reboots have code in them. generate. It's it's it's a bit of error c text, so it's not necessarily trivial to work Okay. So it's it's both it's the it's the concern about not having everybody involved and also technical barrier. It is a it Okay. There are five, six pages of it. So yeah. I can't unfortunately, can't come, but I will look at this, like, That's I mean, I I also can't come to the the meeting. But, yes, I I'm happy for you need to continue these experiments. So on the IRTF stream provided the offers are happy to participate. Okay. I I certainly would want us to move to only doing this with if if Okay. GitHub. It's not everyone uses GitHub, but so Phyllis can do it. It's it's useful. Yeah. Actually, I see is a desire to get like, at at much experience as possible, or do you wanna keep it to, like, a few drafts here and there? For the experiments? Yeah. I don't think we're set up to do as many drafts as possible at this point. Because, like, as I said for IBM, I think all of them are an option. and you can take them or you can pick and choose on your own effectively. Okay. Part of the reason I wanted to bring it up with the other streams that haven't in the experiments yet is partially to see if the notifications and the visibility into the changes are working for you. because you'll have paying attention to GitHub, right, to see if you approve the changes and whatnot. we we still get the off of 18 minutes there. will get an affiliate email that points you to send it up, you know, authority it is initiated, and then it's a pointer to the repo Yeah. But but I mean, I'm sort of assuming that if there's anything stream manager needs do, then maybe an email comes to the street map that says, you need to look at this change and prove similarly for an idea, you know, at Tap Street. what we've been doing is trying well, if if the area directors or whoever it is are paying attention,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "Right? We may try to do, like, an at mentions or whatever and see if you approve there. That that works. Okay. I I I think it's it's it's the person is on get up. Yes. You could mention I think you you shouldn't necessarily assume they won't get one unless you unless you move there. And then just so I make sure I understood correctly, it sounds like you envision there will always be 2 authority 8 paths. There will be the one path for the GitHub users and one path for people who don't use GitHub, I mean, I I don't envisage everyone to switch to using GitHub So you're gonna have to I don't know. I mean, this is a a question far in the future. Right? But, like, even if there's not a GitHub yet, you can create a GitHub and if we can configure the tooling session, it's very easy for people to see the changes. I I I think everybody can do it. So I don't think that's the question we need to answer right now. I would say that probably in the future, we we wanna move to a web web based or 48 process rather into an email based all forty eight process. And if GitHub ends up being a good tool for that, right, then maybe we will use GitHub for everything at some point or maybe we will use something else. but I hope I mean, we won't keep using email. eventually. Yeah. And I think there is definitely a desire to have one process in the end and not multiple processes. Yeah. I mean, that's our hope. I I just trying to understand what what the expectations are from the everyone else. can say, I believe There are some people who can't choose GitHub as well. 1 or 2 Iranian people can't use it. So to have to be careful about that. But -- Yeah. hopefully, we'll get to a position where it's like 955 or something like that. Doesn't mean that you can't use SketchUp. Right? just means that if somebody cannot access it, then you have to provide way to export the information from your guitar process and Then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "like, get it in on manually again, but it doesn't mean that you cannot internally use Git for your process. it's I I don't think we can assume that every policy office are willing Yeah. willing or able to use GitHub to respond to the I would assume everybody is able because it's willingness is a different thing. But, like -- because it's if you're I mean, not everybody might have access. That's that's a real Right? But I'm I'm pretty sure everybody who's working is capable of doing it. Yes. Okay. So just moving on. This one is just plug for the session that's taking place on Thursday. It's great if you can join us and provide some of your viewpoints. to help shape. the next iteration of the experiment, Yep. I guess Yep. This is mine. So we are moving our database and our workflow management into data cracker tech. and we should be seeing some prototypes for prod. So The we do want to provide a dashboard for stream managers. So they have a place where they can hit one screen and see everything that needs their attention and all pretty Okay. this one is just the the arts editor related events that are taking place this week. And And I really just wanna suggest At this IETF, you At most ITFs, it's usually just the three of us here that gets to travel and meet the community. But at this IETF, most of our team is here. So if you stop by the desk, you can meet some of our other editors."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "That would be great. They're really excited to be here and meet the community. and also Priyanka Narkar is here. She's the room is the the programming for the artsy production center over the past 10 plus years. It keeps our system running, and It's great to have her here this week also. And then I threw this one in here as as a the next one in here as a placeholder for Alexis' topic. Yeah. Okay. So this is about seeing broken links in older RFCs. We had Brian Carpenter did just very, brief experiment. He looked at some pre 8650 RFCs, 566 of them and found 300 broken links. So if we're at, like, approximately 1 broken link for every to our older RFCs. we would be looking at potentially 1000. of broken links. One of the suggestions that we've seen is to use for how to fix these if, in fact, we choose to do so. is to use the Erada system. for that. My concern I think that solves some issues of, like, getting the appropriate people to look at the links and make sure that they're correct. My main concern and the reason why I wanted to bring it to this group is if we put 1000 of IRADA into the system. what is that gonna do to you and your processes and that I don't know if that's sustainable. right, that's the one with the big stream. Right? Please don't use the current AI system for this because it's not working well. Okay. Right. Right. So that that that process is just so painful to to to use. Right? the other suggestion I would make for the IETF stream, at least, is that you limit the ability to do this fixing of URLs to normative references."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:04",
    "text": "because informative references are not needed for the implementation of a specification by definition. And, therefore, right, I think we can put the owners on the reader if really wanna figure out what this was to do some of their own research. for the normative ones, I would argue we should do it because they're they matter for terms. The good news is that the innovative ones are typically to other specifications that are sort of archival And so we probably don't have a very big problem if you do that. Oh, good. but is it even is it even the case here? So, like, we have this process that's for very obvious editorial editor the opportunity is just approving then. So I would actually see this in the same category. Just put them in and prove them by the RPC you're done. She should set should just say that ADs need to approve them. Yeah. And there's there's been a discussion about this as well. for that there are different types of problems here. So -- Yeah. So you have to do yeah. You have to verify Yeah. Okay. You have to verify if that's in whether that it's actually moved somewhere else so that and it's a living one so that if you use the archive 1, you do something wrong. the RPC could assess in a lot of case easily, and then just those where it's not clear, you can You can ask, that should limit the ones where you need approval to, like, a voice mail. so so it's are you saying we should do this for the informative ones also, or are you are you this is orthogonal to what I -- So if the if the link is broken, right, maybe there's no web page anymore. that doesn't mean it didn't move somewhere, but there isn't an archived copy of it. -- got or for someone Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But That's right. That a lot of and, I mean, in this case, it's it's it's not a living document. It's just completely are probably you know, trivial things like the the i triple e w freeseal who I reorganized the websites and and all near, near extra police type of whatever. URL's Mhmm. And what once we figure out what that's happened, we could just go through fix them all up."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "doesn't need anything complex. Yes. There are kind of places like living different versions. Mhmm. Quite often, I suspect it will just be a mechanical True. But but, I mean, even for for other specifications, right, the URL the inclusion of the URL is is basically a convenience to the reader. because the rest of the reference has the information to find the spec and the version of the spec. Yep. Because they're well maintained. Right? So for those ones, I would even argue could do what you just said, but we probably don't even have to because people can just, like, by the by the other metadata finds the spec. I think the the the for me, the problem ideally, I would like to reduce the problem to normative references that are basically only findable because of the URL. because they are and those are there's probably ones that we actually did a special approval for because you can't normally have a normative reference. That's just so I there shouldn't be very many of those. We have a few that we needed to do because some spacer or airspace thing. It's just a web page somewhere that everybody uses. But I so that that's a suggestion. Right? This is this is what we're actually gonna do. I don't but that that would reduce the problem in my point was a little bit that I think this number of thousands that you have there If, like, if you if the RPC looks a lot deeper into it, they would would we'll be able to, like, figure out that some of them are really straightforward, and they can they don't need approval. So, like, if the then if this tears down the number of documents or Eritha that needs approval to, like, a low number, then I don't see a problem you have to put the work in first. Okay. So the objection from Joel and possibly some others to use in your art of process. was that it needed. broader community review of any of these things. and effectively virtually a last call thing about it. and dotcom. the I think we got that full text the document, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "Yeah. So -- Can I -- -- somewhere with. Yeah. I think we're talking a little bit in the blue we really need to know a little more what the links are, what the problem exactly is. Sorry. His last message he accepted, so he he's he's okay now. So we there's a lot of links. Right? I mean, there's, for example, URLs with the author block. And I know that I've like, there's, like, a gazillion like, not a gazillion, a bunch of documents that have, like, URLs are my home page that are not my home page anymore. Mhmm. But and I I think there's no value to fixing those. Right? So if I've been I think it's really sort of mostly that the The critical ones are the the the ones that are in normative preferences. about. I mean, those ones and, specifically, those normative references you otherwise kind of care there is, like, a little value in fixing them if they're still an archive around the can point to it and but there's those are no brainers. Right? There's those we can just place. nobody has to approve it. Like, 2 year blog posts or whatever. These Which are those ones now? can't be, like, anything normative or add a living document. Correct. So we should not father, father, father, father, We should just replace them. We should not bother ADs with it. who finds my new home page. go around -- -- new home page. We're going Should the to the RPC then to Internet archive and use that link instead what if my thing is in the near end archive? -- Then we don't have anything. Okay. It's it's So That's what I understood right. I I don't know. That's what we're trying to figure out, but that's certainly a possibility. If we can automate it, I don't care. if it's manual, I wanna limit it to really just the critical ones. because it's not like we don't have anything else to do. Mhmm. Yeah. But if it's straightforward, then there's, like, no consensus. it's if it's can we automate it? I think that's the sort of the because it's so many of them. There's, like, literally like thousands. I actually gave Greg a while ago list of URLs, to set up they're in the RFCs that are broken, and and these are just the ones that point to idf.orgip.orgirstated.orgensen. And that was, several 1000 long Right? This is just internal links that that basically got inconsistent because we didn't do redirect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "or something like that. And if you look at all, I'm I'm pretty sure the number is a lot larger. and we we can't do anything manual. for that sort of even for 100, it's too much. gotta cost the person a lot of time. It's It uses 5 minutes per URL. So you mean the RPC contour. No. We can't pay for it to be done because it costs money, right, to to do this. we have to crowdsource it. if we wanted to do it. Yeah. Yeah. That that's huge. Yeah. So if I could say back what I think I just heard you say, Lars. normative references, if there are broken links you would want there to be a review process. Anything that is non normative, if we could do an easy replacement, that doesn't bother you. but you wouldn't want to have, you know, an approval process in place for that. No. So so any any replacement we should do needs to be correct. Right? So and and so and for for and and if if we can can establish that. Right? if if you can if you can automatically get correct information. Right? I don't do it for everything. I don't care. I don't think we can. Right? And if we can't do that, I would So if somebody manual, he needs to verify that it's correct. I think we need a limited somehow. And and my suggestion how to how to limit it would be for the IETF stream for normative references only. the IRTS team might be different because they have a bunch of things that are more like research papers, And they might have only informative references, and we might wanna fix those. Right? Okay. Okay. We we would certainly need to fix the of references in the i r t f stream because of things like cryptopharm. I just basically standards."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "So sorry. We we certainly have to fix Sorry. I'm having a little trouble hearing you. the normative references in the IRTF stream because of things like CFIG documents, which are essentially standard, sort of, very widely referenced from Sandozrack. Okay. Do you have any feelings about fixing non normative Links. at best on a best efforts basis. I mean, equally for the IITF stream, there's a few RFCs there. It isn't gonna be the sakes all your time. I I would assume for If you just look at the number of broken links for the IAB, it's a really small number. Okay. So can potentially look at it, but, like, that's, I guess, that would be the information I many links are brought from the IAB stream. Does anybody else have any what I'm hearing is I need to go back and find a way to do some homework about know, finding just broken links in the normative references, you trying to figure out if there are ways to automatically replace the links you know, does the IAB even have very many to fix, etcetera, before I come back to have a further conversation or we start actually just fixing. you you may want to talk to the rest of the they're the the the the rest for research analysis and standards process is research group. which is a a research group looking at how the IETF processes work. Mostly, they've been looking at the mailing lists, but I believe some of them are also looking at the see. So that someone may have scripts to find all these broken links already. So it's at least worth asking. Okay. And then Great. And then, I mean, just let's keep in touch by email and let's Try to move on. Okay. I guess the other aspect to this is maybe more of an tab thing for the mailing list, but, like, do we even wanna do Right? Like, we're back to that, like, you know, we don't have to."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "in my experience kind of just on the web in general, there's a reason why we go and fix references. because it increases the likelihood that people are actually gonna use them. So think it was good that you raised it, and I actually think for the normative ones. Right? It is actually a problem if you need a normative refer something else and you can't find it. Right? And and so there's actually the reason the standard's reason why we wanna fix those. Right? Other than just convenience to the reader, So Yeah. So, I mean, I actually don't have a strong opinion about fixing. This is a good point, but, like, sometimes people can just use Google and find it on their own or whatever. So But, like, the one thing I would be more interested is, like, actually, our goal should be to have no broken things for normative reference. So when we find broken things for normative references, we should understand why this is the case and how we can why doesn't future that. I think would be more important. typically, it's because some the thing that we point to changed. Somebody over there that's something. Right? Yeah. Yeah. But so, like, often do point other SEOs and whatever. And, of course, they can change their web page or whatever. But maybe there is a way for, like, contacting me as the SEO and getting a more able reference from them because we're just using the wrong reference or whatever. so so You know, maybe there is a way to fix it. like, you first have to understand -- The reference is not the URL. The reference is the metadata in the texts. been Yeah. -- let me know. Like, you wrote papers before the web. Right? I guess -- but sort of the you you there was no URL that you included in. And all the other bit of graphic information that you put there, so you can find it. Yes. -- by going to the library. Like, for for normative references, I would expect there are very little URLs anyway. So in those cases where normative reference goes to a URL, like, it like, we are expecting usually I think the accuracy even checking that there should be a very steady steady URL. And if it's not stable, we try and understand why. So most moment of reference have a URL, but in most cases, it's redundant with the metadata that Okay. But those we don't have to fix. well, we don't yeah. Exactly. but we could. Right? Because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "But those, I don't see because they're those are what's that matter. here. well So I just I just heard an an enormous extra piece of work just trying on the RPC's bit there. that they should check the stability of the normative reference URL. So I don't believe that is that something you do? Yes. So we check the stability, but What that means is Pardon me. Is it a URL to something like HCM, versus somebody's blog post somewhere. or a personal website. So we assess it by, you know, is this a ongoing concern that business wise or SDR. And if it's not, we ask the authors if they can provide a more stable reference because sometimes authors trying to get around pay walls, for papers, we'll say, oh, go look at Joe's home website, because he's got the pre print PDF. and and we asked, we're like, didn't could could we have a better you know, URL for that. Sometimes the authors are like, that's the one we wanna use. like, well, okay. It works now. So And and if if you can't push back If they refuse, then you just go with the original one. Yeah. So Okay. So there is so does that match your expectations? Yeah. Got it. And, actually, if there is, like I wanna interject something real quick. If during that process, the author said, no. I really wanna use Joe's homepage. Is it acceptable for the RPC to say, can we archive Joe's homepage? And Linked to an archival link instead. Right. Like, it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "as a way of trying to future proof the fact that Joe's homepage is likely more likely to change something like a standards organization. That's also something you need to ask the others in the 80 because it might be on purpose that the reference should change. Right? I just said they could ask. But is that an acceptable practice? accepted practice. If we need, like yeah. and That would be a policy decision. I think whether we want to switch to proof URLs just to, like, and and and and basically use our archival versions rather than not. And just quickly about the practice of screening. So if there's DUI number, Usually, you don't put the URL as well. Right? You do. We'll just -- Yeah. Okay. Yes. And Well and also if you include the DOI, But without a URL, the way the XML works, constructs, a -- Yeah. -- URL using the DOI. this. Okay. Yeah. I think we need to wrap up. Thank you. close to Nida can we So"
  }
]
