[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "got wrong the Stu on is pretty good at nuts but um please do so and we are on the hour so um I think we can probably at least get started on the administ trivia andless Bernard is there anyone essential who you were expecting to have show I think it's okay to start okay cool and all right so welcome to the AV core virtual interim uh February 13th this is being recorded um let's see virtual inter meeting tips press the hand button which is at the bottom of the screen to join the queue um then press it again to leave um or I think as chair I can maintain that if need me um you'll have to enable your audio to be heard that's the microphone button at the bottom of the screen um you can also enable your video if you want but it's separate from enabling audio um video is encouraged I will practice what I preach yes there we are video is encouraged but not required"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "um oh my goodness my room is FY um and then um so um I'm turn off uh and so yeah so you can uh you can turn it on um keep it off if you're not sharing or presenting or speaking at the mic and use of a headphone is recommended otherwise sometimes you can get echo which is annoying for everybody uh the iotf note well please pay attention to this um you follow the I iatf standards um particularly related to IPR and code of conduct and privacy policy um particularly um do not notice note the code of conduct everybody here is expected to behave professionally um and uh if you don't like an idea just attack the idea not the people um if you feel somebody has violated this you can contact the iatf omit people uh about this meeting here's the that's Link in the data tracker that presumably you found this to get here um here's the notes tool as mentioned Stefan is taking notes but you can um follow that if you wish and uh add anything you think he might have overlooked um anyway here's our draft status we've published some drafts uh bp9 is still in misre because we're still waiting on frame marking um we don't have Mo here but we will try to get after him again I think it's a very trivial revised ID needed I think it's just the boiler plate but I will try to get after him um skip EVC is now in RFC editor yay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "oh excellent excellent yes so EVC is progressing so we are hope we have another thing there so and then uh I think we're talk we have more slides on skip later I think so okay we did a working group Last Call on v3c and adopted a number of drafts um on v3c we're still we did not get a lot of responses to that um so I mean mind you that's often the case for a payload format but we would really feel somewhat more comfortable if a few po people reviewed that even if it was just to say yeah looks fine so even though the working group class call is nominally finished if we get a few more people to read it over and say yes this seems like a reasonable thing for us to do that would make us a little more comfortable in that so um anybody wants to volteer do that or we'll put a call out on the mailing list soash yes so what yeah I'm bit uh I'm new so I don't know what is the procedure but I understood that last meeting we will have like a shepher for the document yeah I can be the shepherd um so that I think we've you know we'll talk about we've made a lot of progress on EVC and Skip which were consuming all my shepherd time so I can be the shepherd but the key thing is John said is the isg has dramatically expanded the Shephard questionnaire and there's all these questions about review and implementation so um anyway a little bit more review and also there's a there's a slide in a bit about the kind of questions we need to answer okay there's another side on that okay sorry I didn't actually review the slides this time Bernardo sorry about that okay the a Registries um I don't think we've made a lot of progress on this I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "think Magnus uh vestland who is not here was going to write up a draft to potentially retire the the uh I RTP payad format type registry um but hopefully we can this probably is something since it's a little broader that would be better to discuss at the at a non- interim meeting but it is being yeah we'll keep it on the agenda for 1119 yeah okay yes action items here v3c um vc3 uh I think that should be v3c right so um sorry for the TP yeah so we're gonna talk about the next go ahead yeah and also you um you were the driving this yeah so we posted this summary as uh Jonathan said the response with a little sparse didn't get comments Christ's rebut it and thank you to Christ I don't know if he's in the meeting here um so uh we have a GitHub repo so I think the thing to do is to start putting these issues into the repo um and also maybe getting uh as Jonathan said more review um the one of the things the isg has very even longer questionnaire now for publication which requires a whole bunch of steps uh including uh implementation documentation interrupt testing all kinds of stuff so that was one question is has this document actually been implemented um and interop tested uh theas go ahead yes so we we have our own implementation which is public us up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "Stefan so I just want to say that um unless that question has changed again the ITF require uh the isg requires documentation of these things they don't require that there is interop testing it requires that people say whether interop testing has been conducted yeah for example the the EVC draft has not had any inter testing and made it through the G anyway so um you know let let's not overthink this too much please thank you yeah we're not trying to overthink it but the isg seem as well discussed they've kind of gone overboard lately right I I I I completely and wholeheartedly agreed to that but uh um it's it's uh it's still that that all that stuff is not required except that documentation is required all right so yeah yes um and Skip um want so we've been working with the authors in the actually hold onos did you want to say something about p33 first yes uh thank you Jonathan yes we also I'm uh I'm presenting inter digital so inter digital also has v3c RTP demo and we also have the implementation for that excellent cool thank you yeah yeah so I think mostly it sounds like we're pretty good on there mostly just it' be good to have a bit more review of the spec most particularly from people who know RTP well so um anybody yeah and also if you could post that if you have links to the interop or any or the demos or anything that'd be great to post it to the list because what I'll then do is I'll take those links and shove it into the public and it just just helps build the case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "cool so skip do you want to talk speak to that ber yeah so uh um we're actually making progress here we're going to talk about it more in a bit but I'd like to commend the authors uh we actually had one of the isg members really uh and document is reading very well I should say I've reread it and uh one of the reviewers zahad actually was very complimentary and I think it's deserved um so we'll we'll have more on the progress but we had a meeting with the isg on Thursday February 8th it is my opinion and hopefully I'm not wrong that the technical issues are resolved now um and the Avail skip document availability issue appears resoled and we are mostly talking about editorial things um we'll have a discussion further and I'm I'm hoping my Rosie color glasses are not crushed here but I'm I'm feeling optimistic excellent okay so here's our agenda as mentioned first we'll talk about Skip uh j2k uh hvc RTP for quick s frame green metadata message timing configuration tics and finally wrap up anybody have anything to say or comment on the agenda us yeah thank you actually regarding the 118 minute takings so uh just I would like to ask one thing regarding the ort and region of Interest dependent delivery on that right so we uh uh I mean like there was a consensus that we will be taking that into from the draft stage to the working group stage uh but I haven't seen any followup activity on that so I'm sorry I don't know the exact procedure uh so I'd like to check on that uh yeah I think we we discussed at 118 having a working group adoption call um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "we just have had all our time sucked away by these by isg interactions uh on some of the drafts so please actually stepan you can note that in the minutes and uh we will uh probably should post a list of action items make sure we haven't dropped anything on the floor so thank you thanks a lot all right so any other comments on the agenda or or we get started all right Skip and Dan just tell me when you want do me slides yep uh thanks Jonathan um yeah as as Bernard mentioned we had a discussion with the isg folks last week um seemed pretty productive to try to finalize some of the some the issues that we've had um some of the blocking discusses things like that some of the wording nuances that we have so um we published if you go to the starting slide Jonathan yeah we uh published uh version 8 on February 1 updated the abstract introduction um to more strongly emphasize the purpose of this document which again is more for the network not so much for skip endpoints um re reorganized the payload format section um added a figure again a very generic figure showing the RTP payload is basically a blob but be more in line with some of the other payload documents that showed that even though it's basically very nondescript but it is what it is so we put that in there um added some comments regarding the congestion control um avpf and sapf things like that being optional for skip um again we added a section called the augmented transport protocols for I know we've had many discussions and comment ments regarding multiplexing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "bunding bundling forward error correction things like that that basically put in the document that those those things are optional with skip um and that um as long as you don't modify the payload then it should be all right but again we had a number of comments from reviewers regarding that information so we basically explicitly called those things out and basically stated that those are optional features that can be used with skip so um and finally added this in the security consideration sections the use of srtp again is optional um again skip provides its own payload encryption but does not do header encrypt header encryption or rtcp encryption things like that so um again those things are optional we labeled those as optional so uh next slide um again as mentioned version nine is in progress um it's part of the outcome of what we've been discussing with the ESG reviewers um trying to address the issues of um our security claims of what skip does and provides its confidentiality and integrity um trying to soften those words to the ascent of just saying that skip provides payload encryption and again the biggest um actually this is important Dan I uh I wouldn't remove any of your claims relating to skip because they're important for the argument of why you shouldn't mess with the stuff but just do the minimum that Eric I think Eric has suggested some text and I think you're there so just right do what he said and I think we're I'm praying that we're done right well basically I was we were changing the words confidentiality confidentiality that's where I think that could create problems do as little as possible because it's draft's looking really great it makes sense don't don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "overdo it just do do what the doctor said and no more right okay and the final thing was that basically their disclaimer that the I ESG wanted folks wanted in there and I mean the last text that we've gotten from one of the reviewers was quote unquote the iekf has not conducted a Security review of skip and therefore has not verify the claims contained in this document so I don't know if that's their final approved text that they want that's what one of the reviewers said if if everybody's happy with that we can put it in there and and run with it so yeah I think Eric my interpretation was that Eric said that but you can reread his email and just do what he said and I think I'm praying with all my fingers crossed that we're almost done yeah well yeah that was in his email this that he sent this morning or part of that claim so if that's the if that's the official iesg position and text that they approve and like I said we're we're good to go yeah in terms of the votes just to be clear you need three or more yes and objections and you have that now with the exception of the discuss because the yes and no objections that that's eight together I believe that's true right Jonathan so if as soon as that discuss clears I believe we're in a position to pass Jonathan is that can you confirm sorry I was muted yeah I believe that's correct Yeah so basically as soon as Eric's uh discuss turns into a no objection I think you're good okay I was just looking at the data tracker and it says has has a discuss needs three or more yes or no objection positions to pass so yeah as soon as Eric clear yeah that doesn't mean three more it means three total okay and you have one yes and seven objections so you have eight already as soon as Eric clears you're you're good to go okay well that's good news yeah I know it's it's a little confusing it looks like it might it seems to imply you need three more but no just three total and you've got eight so okay all right that's good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "right so I wanted to thank you guys by the way for your patience in this process and we're all uh as they like to say you're in our hopes and prayers yeah right and we we right and we appreciate your putting the meeting together because I think that was helpful we probably should have done that a while ago I guess but nonetheless it was very helpful to get yeah some oneon-one beware that even if you pass and get into the RFC editor the RFC editor will have their own comments and you know Stefan well knows that can take a while but just keep the faith yeah but yeah that that's generally just editorial they don't do technical review but they will have like you know language changes and things like that but that's usually pretty Cooperative so right right thank you thank you all right so J 2000 I uh this is sp I was in Q uh oh sorry sorry I didn't I didn't see the Q and and that and that's okay um that that's well hidden on the new on the new uh form just not well hidden but you just it's not where it was so you have you have to look another place um so uh I was just going to remind everybody that um the the way at least the way it worked three years ago when it mattered uh on a document I was uh responsible for um the when people leave the isg their ballot positions clear so so um so it will be good to um yeah yes we absolutely like to get this done before the March yeah board change yes be because because because if that doesn't happen then that's kind of an invitation for new area directors to read the document oh yes we would definitely prefer to avoid that so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "yesk thank you yeah Dan I just wonder if you have a specific date when that's going to happen uh during the I think believe it's the Wednesday of I of the next ITF full meeting okay so during that during that week meeting let me put it this way Dan you do not want to have to show up to iatf 1119 that is your goal in life yeah that's a long flight so yeah you yeah you don't even want to register remotely you want to be like talking to the RFC editor by then that that's that would be great all right so okay I think anybody else had anything on skip or shall we start on our D hi there can you hear me yes oh awesome great uh so very very quick update uh if you go to the next slide I think the primary update is uh we now have uh sample RTP uh packet streams that have been generated using a hardware implementation and that you know um use um most if not all of the features of um the RTP payload um I've have not received substantial comments on the specification since the last meeting and um my primary repo that they can put that in yeah it's still our private one I'd rather I mean um well our private I think Jonathan and I need to talk about getting work and group get a repo up but anyway we'll work on that yeah great action item for us uh yeah I think we we we have one set up I think that that we're using for we just need to clean it up anyway that's an action item for the chairs okay yeah yeah and again as we discussed last meeting as soon as that's available I'll be glad to move the spec there um so sorry for the notes what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "exactly is that action item chairs to um figure out the working group GitHub repo so that we can we have a lot of private repos but we should kind of get our act together iniz it all thank you all right uh so anyway so my priority um has been for the past couple of weeks to now that we have an encoder that can generate sample streams um I'm really looking to get a really independent receiver implementation um so that's my in that's what I'm focusing on so are those Dropbox links I me I think they're called the dropboxes temporary is that something we want to be hosting somewhere more i' be great yeah I I don't I think theref has ways to do that but I'm not sure exactly how that's done so and that should be another action item Jonathan it would be useful particular for for the HC stuff we also need a I have test vectors and junk like that cool investigate that if you could put that also for for the chair to figure out how to host you know test vectors and the like by large binary files anyway so that completes my report thank you all right thank you and uh yeah and I think it probably be good to for people to take a look at that especially if you know RTP well so please encourage the the group to take a look and read that document just basically say you don't have to understand jpeg just doesn't make sense forp point of view okay uh ATZ Bernard we F doing this okay um we'll both do it so next slide okay so we're going to try to cover a couple of things today I'll be talking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "about web codex and uh FIP will be talking a little bit about the HBC support in web RTC and then we're going to talk about some open issues that have come up next slide so uh where are we with the basic HBC support and browsers in in the uh encoder and decoder so in Chrome as of9 we support uh HBC Hardware only decode it's available on a lot of different uh machines of different types um and uh both you know all platforms although more uh Windows and Mac Mac is is good as I'll talk about uh the encode is behind a flag and at least as of now the decision has been not to enable that by default I don't know that that's going to be true forever but that's where we are right now so we have the hardware only decode on Chrome but not in code and then on edge um as of uh what uh version 122 we have both hvbc and ab1 decode support so that was restored it there was some issues it was fixed at 122 um so similar on so situation on Chrome and Edge is similar um in that we have the hardware only decode but not incode and fipple will be talking more about some of the problems that that creates in we see but next slide okay Safari uh here's the situation so in if you just have a stock Safari 17.4 um they are making progress on web codex video encoder and decter so the basic API support is coming in but at the moment it's only bp8 bp9 and h64 but it is across devices so that's good in the tech preview like R 188 plus that's where you see the addition of the support for the h265 and av1 in code decode in Hardware um av1 supports temporal scalability currently h265 does not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "there's also work going on in Discovery that is what we call the web codex is config supported API there's some bugs there uh so we're going on there one thing I would note if you want to test this you have to disable what is known as lockdown mode for a reason I don't quite comprehend if you put it in this high security mode it disables web codex and Safari so you'll go hey it isn't there but actually it is you have to turn off the mode next um so here's what you see if if you've got a MacBook Air M2 running somoma with a safari test preview 188 and I have a little test page you can go to and if you're not running lockdown mode you'll actually see this so basically um this is the hvc encoder it doesn't support hvc but it will put out a single layer of hvc and then if you look at av1 SVC you'll see you have temporal scalability modes L1 uh T2 and L1 T3 3 um at the moment this Hardware uh encode decode capability is not visible in other browsers like Chrome like if you look at Chrome GPU you will not see the hvbc and av1 encoder um we're looking into how to enable that next okay so that's so the encoding work is in there um I'll let uh fipo do you want to talk about where we are in wegc yes if you can hear so we have test Pages for media capabilities and get capabilities and in Chrome we have Li property support still work in progress packetization is merged dep packetization is in review and should be landing before the end of the quarter that includes mainly STP and the RTP payload format in webkit theing to tracking B it was recently enabled by default I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "believe it is not yet available in tech review 188 but should be testable in 199 but it still needs to be synced with the Upstream liy implementation so that is not there yet and I think Yen can comment more on the discovery that looks like it is going to require media capabilities correct yes there's uh there's a oh okay hi you when you want to talk about it yeah um what's the issue about media capabilities there I think there was a question of whether it was synced what was uh what what it was showing was actually what was in webkit um I think somebody complained that like it showed that HC was on but they had some decode issues I guess that's not surprising right that just it's just some we need a TVC to cook a little bit before enabling it and there's probably a few two bugs that we need to fix okay yeah thank you next slide okay do you want to take that one ber oh okay yeah so um actually before we get to this I do want to say uh overall I think um un Safari looks actually pretty good because all of the nice Hardware en code decode acceleration is there um so one of the things we'll talk about in a minute is Safari is kind of advanced it's going to be able to send and receive Weber with hvc chrome maybe not so much and fipple will talk talk more about some of the web urgency problems that this creates because you essentially will have one browser that will send and receive and another that's receive only it actually gets a little weird Okay so issue 20 is more clarifications on SPS PPS and VPS so um we've talked about this before we had problems in h264 where the encoders didn't update the SPs PPS ID even if the parameters changed so there was some confusion we actually had to create another weird STP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "parameter um which is kind of an atrocious thing um and uh we had trouble basically matching and applying the inband parameter sets and linking them to the IDR so in the current draft we said hey you should have these parameter sets before the ID great but then the question came up hey what about a CRA and a bla so C and bla are not truly independent frames is they can reference previous things and so uh the question was do you have to have the parameter sets before those as well in addition to the IDR and we debated it and I think the answer is that it's not strictly necessary but then we were thinking hey there might be some Corner cases here what if the CRA and bla change parameters like the resolution changes the frame rate changes or the number of temporal layers if you didn't have the parameter sets could you get confused and people felt hey we're not 100% sure that we can avoid this so the recommended text which is actually in2 says applies this requirement to all of the IDR C and bla they all must be proceeded by the r parameter set set in the packet with the same RP Tim stamp as the idrc bla Stefan so I think this is the right thing to do my question is is anyone ever using open Gos in in in a web environment the question is are you over engineering here uh do we have John Lin on one of the other developers who wants to uh comment okay um actually if you could put that comment into this GitHub issue Stefan that would be great and then uh we can have the developers kind of please someone please someone channel that because I'm I don't use GitHub and stuff like that you know so we can just put it in the put it in the notes of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "meeting and I'll I'll go in put it on your behalf okay thanks I think we can go to the next slide yeah I mean possibly you can even say you don't don't use C or bla for we already see it all but maybe that's yeah that was my question like C would this come up but um yeah I mean maybe you should just say could okay all right that would probably but anyway it's a good question I I don't quite understand where it would show up or yeah and I'm just wondering if they' cause other problems with switching in the like but it might anyway that that's a good thing to note also yeah all right so this one I think fipo uh can I turn this over to you because I know you've been investigating the whole mess yes so we ran into a lot of issues with codecs that are either send only or receive only and that's a pretty common problem in particular because for example for hvvc we have a lot of profiles that can only be encoded but not decoded and the other way around for h264 things like profile level asymmetry takes care of that so it's less of a problem but we have been pondering whether what we will run into when we get the situation that Chrome can only decode HC but not encoded and gets an offer from Safari and vice versa and obviously the desired result for send receive mline is for Safari to send hvc and receive h264 in that case and one of the issues was we ran into was with the US said codec preferences API which was requiring codex to be both in send and receive codex to be used to that API we relaxed that already but that causes backward compatibility issues for any web application next slide so the scenario we're looking at is an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "offer from Safari with a send receive mline preferring h264 so putting it first followed by h264 and we believe the answer from chrome should be symmetric to that so answering h265 followed by h264 and that should cause h265 to be sent from Safari to Chrome but 264 in the other direction does that sound like what everybody else would expect I think that's what the offer answer spec says yes but we ran into a lot of surprises in particular because it gets different if you take into account different direction and see codex the codec changes arising from that the other direction if we have an offer from chrome with a sent receive mline what is going to be in there because as a receive only codec Chrome should usually not include hvvc even if it was preferred with set codec preferences so most likely this will not be usable out of the box with send receive mline that can be changed if one uses M lines in a oneway direction that is what we are hoping for but this will need to be interop tested once it's available in both browsers um fpo uh you know I think what you're saying here is we might need two M lines one for each Direction yes do we have to do that with h264 sometimes it seems so painful it is painful and I think I don't think we can avoid it I mean we have for example different profiles that are only available for sending and only available for receiving but for example Chrome on Mac offers an encoder that can do h264"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "5.2 but it can only encodes that and decode is only level 3.1 not an problem for offer answer due to level symmetry but it might be different with hvvc so you when I don't know if do you have any thoughts on this it seems like nightmare but you or I guess the fun so I have a comment on this and that's more generic comment I I would suggest um not to try protocol design based on uh short-term snapshots of uh this week's implementations but rather uh do protocol design how it's right and hope that the implementations catch up I know that's not necessarily w3c style but I think that's that would still be the right thing to do so in other words don't don't try to design around corner cases that that um where things don't work even if the result is for the time being suboptimal um just document shortcomings and document them noisily and then hope that the implementation groups catch up uh in what makes sense thank you yeah I agree with that I hope that we will figure this out more we got into this whole Mass because set codec preferences was implemented differently or specified differently in the WC CPC and it was specified in JP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:05",
    "text": "so see Spencer yeah thank you uh I agree with Stefan I I did have the question um is this situation something that is violating current like the current way that offer answer Works uh or something like that uh or is this something that we need might need to talk about uh additional language and a specification for um I think this is more specifically on what JP says and maybe what web RTC spec says and if they agree with each other which is how that controls what ends up in the offer answer not what the offer answer spec says per se so this is more if the if the RTC web group still existed it would be in their scope but it doesn't so it's kind of ended up here by default yeah I I just I I I I was agreeing with Stefon about not not trying to uh not trying to come up with heuristics for somebody else's uh uh odd implementations but uh if if they're implementing something that's standard conformant but stupid uh you know maybe that's an maybe that's an opportunity to work on this back thanks I believe Harold is planning to file an erata on JP regarding that so we will work on this spe yeah I'm not sure that can you spell that standard for me for the no it's j fet what which one is that J JS JavaScript I forget what it sounds but it's the it's the core web RTC web I'm an idiot yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "thank you yeah um yeah so um sorry go ahead um next slide please I think that should be it oh yes that is quoting the JP text that we need to clarify or Define is a relationship to wec correctly problem is that we have these sent only and receive only codex and this is not fully taken into account by this text is 8829 B still open or what is it status in the right now um I think this is not published yet is it in I mean how how how hard would it be to make major technical changes to it at this point I don't remember where it is in the queue good question but might know I think Justin would kill us but maybe it's possible yeah because I mean it's certainly the things you've described sound like more than a nom to me that sounds like technical changes so but having Abyss open gives us more scope to do that but like I said I don't know pulling it back from the RC editors CU but maybe Justin would say so okay then fine but somebody else has to be the author your co-author anyway uh any sorry didn't mean to take over here Bernard or pH uh we can go to the next next slide which lists the issues if anyone wants to take a look at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "them other than that the question is what the next steps are berar I think we may have to discuss with RTC web and and the JP issue okay with that I'm done so I I vaguely recall that RTC web is not meeting at the next uh it I believe it's actually closed which is why the 8829 B is a um is an interv visual uh is a um I think ad80 sponsored or something so um yeah so that's I mean the list is still open I can't think discussion is going to happen there but the group is probally closed so um may I ask those people who understand the stuff to take a really good look at my notes um because I don't understand this stuff I can take a look uh so I'm looking at the RDC web uh page which thinks that the working group is still active oh okay maybe I'm was wrong but I just know that I I believe I I I believe I remember them quessing uh for a while but uh I think they are still I think they are still a they are still active in the data tracker anyway okay I just I I just noticed that 8829 this was this as individual draft so yeah yeah I I was mystified by that too but but it may it may be that uh choosing between uh spending time on a specification and spending time renaming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "the specification uh Justin did the right thing so the last two messages on the RTC web mailing list one was that Ted Hardy said on January 3rd that they are not meeting and the second one was from Francesca the area director say that RTC web is moving to the wit area so that sounds to me there that around yeah okay all right thank you yeah so it sounds like any anything with um issues that are with JP per se rather than the um it would definitely be in their scope so possibly we should this should be taken there but we can discuss with their chairs and maybe the area directors where there should discussion to happen also of course w3c all right so figure out where that discussion needs to go and we'll need to figure out how to solve it you know for whatever definition of Wei for the second so but I think is that it Phil is that's it yes okay cool yes all right then who's presenting or be quick so you Spencer mat okay yeah hi I am uh all right next slide please um yeah so let's start with a quick overview of the currently open issues and then go into details into some of them we currently have 12 open issues in the repositories and as of yesterday we have five b requests for them which we plan to merge soon most of them I think are already reviewed we plan to close three more of them in because we don't plan to do anything about them in this specification because there are enhancements that could be solved in a followup"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "specification or because um there are things that don't just apply to RTP over quick but also other things and that could also be solved somewhere else and then there's one issue which is kind of already half solved and we plan to solve the other half in another issue to avoid a mess and um yeah so let's go into the details of all of the issues uh next slide please um quick and ice I think we have talked about this in the past already um RTP over quii doesn't really care how the connection is established except for redefining an alpn so that is important but all the rest of our specification doesn't really care about how the connectivity is established and we talked about this in the last meeting and we think that it will be solved once there is a not traversal solution for quick and so we're planning to close this as won't fix here um Peter so uh basically you're saying this this will be solved elsewhere either with ice or without ice yes exactly okay and are you what if there's a conflict between the aop and used there and here that is a good question I I mean when you I think you're asking like if if we have quick over I that defines an another alpn that does not match RTP Mo Qui right correct because maybe question would be I think yeah sorry I'm just guessing that whatever that mechanism is might also uh be opinionated about the European yeah so I think when we have a protocol that says this is for example uh quick over ice that defines a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "different alpn then that protocol properly has to describe what will be the protocol running on top of that and that could be RTP over quick if it defines that this alpn is then another aln to say the same thing but I think it needs to say something about what application layer protocol will run over this quick connection does that make sense well I I yes but I'm I'm guess uh could you also just say that whatever mechanism is used to decide that this is Rock does not need to be an aop does that make sense like what you're saying is if we use normal quick without peer-to-peer stuff use this aop but if you have some other mechanism for using quick that might be peer-to-peer then it's possible that thing will use the aapn for a different purpose and then the way to negotiate Rock through that might be other than the aop uh like basically if you if you punt the peer-to-peer part just or you depend on some other mechanism then just say that that mechanism can also do its own way of detecting that rock is being used yeah I think uh that kind of makes sense I haven't really thought about this from that angle I think but I guess we have a OPN specified in our document because quick basically says you need to Define Ann when you define a application layer protocol uh if someone else writes a draft later that says this is RTP over quick over ice or something like that and that defines a different aln I guess that protocol could just say this is basically using the same en encapsulation and everything that's an RTP over quick except for that alpn and instead uses an alpn that is quick over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:10",
    "text": "eyes okay all right Spencer uh yeah uh so I uh actually met reminded me uh within the last two or three days that uh the reason we need the aln is for multiplexing uh and uh and uh so that's not that's not something we can do without the abil we we can't we can't do rock multiplexing without somewh we can't do rock M we can't do we don't we can't do quick we can't do rock over we can't do rock without some way to Multiplex and demultiplex which doesn't have to be an aln but that was the way we were setting it up to do it um and that's this is this is still this is still an interesting conversation uh so um I want to I want to at least thank Peter for uh the insightful questions you given us something to think about uh Victor Victor Victor just asked in the in the chat what are the actual alternatives to aop in for this purpose so um I don't know that I had know of one yeah there's additional mult I think it's worth exploring because if you have to have separate connections and separate APN that creates all kinds of problems with you know congestion control uh and things like that yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "it's it certainly it certainly it certainly creates situations with that uh you you know one of the things that the spec says is that you may want to uh be using a different uh congestion controller for uh for the RT RTP quick bucks uh aln or for the or for H3 Ln so that could be a good thing but it's definitely a thing so I think we have another issue talking about multiplexing and aln later so maybe let move that discussion there and I think for that aln part we can't do anything about quick and ice and so we suggest to close this one and then let's either keep in mind that we have this aln problem and maybe open another issue if we need to do anything about that but that may depend on the multiplexing issue I have later does that work for everyone yeah yeah I just I wanted to say I think um it's uh perfectly reasonable to say this spec is defining RTP over Rock quick if you're running RTP over something you know some other layer over quick then you'll have might have to do something different but that's not this spec um I think we can sort of um you know I think as we get close to working group last call we can see okay here the quick working group you know actually working on an natural thing and we can you know you know hold public this till that's done and say okay well if you're using that use this if they're not anywhere near it we can just say this is defining over BR quick if you're doing something else you'll have to do something else and that'll have to be a different spec um I think that's perectly reasonable um um I think you know you'd also the other thing that comes to mind of course is RTP over web transport but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "I don't think we want to necessarily get into that right now uh yeah I agree that that would be a good way I think and I think also RP web transport would be a different thing partly because of the LPN problem because they have a different one um okay but then I suggest go to the next slide which is multipath quick and we basically propose the same path forward for this one we don't really want to do anything about it we mentioned multipath quick in the motivation section I think that RP we could maybe benefit from it in the future but we don't say um anything more specific about multipath and multipath quick is still uh in being worked on and we suggest we can close this and if there needs to be done something about it we can do that in a follow-up document all right then next slide uh this is the one that's half open I think that was RTP and non RTP in multiple connections which we think we don't need to care about too much because it's different independent connections and we care about what how RTP works over one quick connection the discussion in the issue is however a bit different from that and includes a bit more multiplexing discussion also for multiplexing different protocols within one quick connection so we think it makes sense to close this issue because it's about multiple different connections and open a new issue for multiplexing because I also think there is something we might want to discuss again uh on the next slide uh which is about multiplexing different protocols in one connection next slide please um we have discussed that in the past two and it keeps coming up as in the issue I just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "mentioned um and multiex in currently works by using the flow identifier redefined which is prepended to every RTP packet and also prepended to every stream that is supposed to be carry something else um then there was one email in the past in one of the multiplexing discussions we had from Martin Thompson who said that we shouldn't assume that our framework will be important not to justify something super generic and I think that this super generic thing we currently have that allows basically to send anything next to RTP may be problematic when we get to reviews for especially from the quick working group because we don't really say what will be sent next to RTP and we don't say how will the applications know what will be sent because we would probably need our own alpn like mechanism uh to build that ourselves into protocol or somewhere in the applications because otherwise you could just send anything and no one would really know what that would be and the applications can't really handle it so one alternative that we could do is to Define one alpn that says RTP over quick and this is only RTP over quick and then have a different document that describes a protocol that should be multiplexed with RTP over quick in the squ connection and then this other document could Define a new alpn that says this quick connection will be used for RTP and this other protocol but in that case it would be clearly defined which two protocols will be multiplexed uh we have these two toy drafts that I already mentioned last time which basically do that to show that it is possible to do something like uh data channels or whatever next to RTP with the same connection um yeah I would just like to hear the working group's opinion on this whether it makes sense to change to this or to keep the generic version we currently have um because if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "we want to change it we should open a new issue for that and do it uh B yeah would it be possible for you to present uh one or more of those drafts new drafts at 119 uh sure I I can quickly say what what's in there I can also present them in more detail in the uh meeting at 119 so the quick data chns draft is just a very simple version of mapping data CHS to quick and the Rock qdc draft is just a draft that defines an alpn for multiplexing this quick data gen it's draft with RTP over one same quick connection yeah because I think Peter's gonna talk next but basically in you know web CH we chose not to try to just generically stick the web data channel on top of quick um but anyway I let I I'll let Peter go I think he probably has some thoughts on that sure so I also I I didn't mean to have those data channels as something that we definitely need it's just something that I needed to present this alternative LPN mechanism I don't know if that would be useful to anyone to have this data channels over quick but to to Showcase how the alternative multiplexing could look like that was kind of helpful to have but um I can present in more detail in 119 uh Peter I think it does make sense for this draft or document to say this is how we do it when we are in complete control of the quick connection we choose C OPN we own all the streams Etc and then say there may be future ways that we get to uh right on top of a quick connection that's set up somehow but we don't know how like maybe peer-to-peer with its own aln and we might be multiplexed but the way that that gets figured out later will be figured out later um I I think that's okay to do it that way okay that that makes sense so I would suggest that I will post the poll request to make this change in our dog and then change our do to say that a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "quick connection using the RTP quick alpn will be for only RTP and rtcp over quick if you want to Multiplex then you have to write your own document that says alpn for RTP rtcp Multiplex with something else and that would probably then also allow use cases like you mentioned earlier in the peer-to-peer casee where you want to define a different alpn to run it over um a to be quick connection so I would suggest I write that P request and post to the list and then you can have a look at how that would work all right if there are no more comments then I suggest next slide uh congestion control for sharing uh connection we disc discussed this in it18 we had a little bit of input basically uh we need some guidance which we already have in the draft um we have one poll request to clear up one of the subsections in this uh section about sharing okay uh just to briefly uh interrupt Stefan says he's been called away for an urgent discussion so if anybody else could take over um taking the notes in the hedg doog for a few minutes that would be appreciated uh this is Spencer I'm actually taking notes in the hedg dooc for this section for this topic anyway so okay wonderful thank you uh if if people can join me either now or uh when we get to the next topic please do okay thank you sorry mat continue that's weird Spen I don't see you on the uh on the hedg doog I see here only uh guest for cardi and SAS and that's it are you in the right hedg doog am I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "in the right hedg doog I'm taking I'm taking notes now and I copied the uh agenda into this one uh so I will I will I will I will chase that down thank you okay if you click you C for just a few minutes thank you yeah if you if you click on the Link in the if you click on the on the thing at the top of the meico you will see the no taking tool which is what Stan has been using I think actually I'm not sure now no it's not so I don't know what Stu has been using all right well anyway well we'll figure it out and uh we will unify them I'm posting the link I'm posting the hog Link in the chat right now okay great and that's perfect thank you Stefan okay sorry so please continue all right um yeah so we created one poll request for this already to do some Cleanup in that subsection um if there's anything else that people want us to note in the document then please let us know in issues or poll requests otherwise we will close this issue after merging that request Jonathan um I think if we're deferring talking about how you share a connection I think deferring of what happens when you share a connection is also proly reasonable uh yeah that makes sense too um all right next slide uh oh yeah then we have this issue for cesing RTP packets in a single quick packet so if you have multiple small packets they could actually go in one quick packet um we added some considerations for that but it's actually uh guidance for application"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "Developers for what their quick or what their application how their application might interact with quick Stacks it's a bit hard to say anything more specific because in the end it depends on what the quick stack is doing and applications may not really have a lot of control over that um yeah we have the pull request for adding these in the discussion section uh we would of course like to see input for from the working group we currently basically say I think that um applications can or need to consider for example delaying certain packets or that that packets may be delayed by quick STX to put multiple packets into one quick packet um but please see the details in the P request and let us know whether that makes sense otherwise we will close that issue and merge the P request um next next slide um congestion control applicability for real time or real time congestion control applicability was discussed at ITF 1182 um our understanding there was that we need to provide some considerations without being too specific on what exactly or what concession controls exactly should be used um we already have some of that in the draft we don't think that we currently need to do more about it if people think that we should then please let us know what exactly we should do otherwise we are planning to close this one as won't fix um next slide please Sor we have a lot of shs in the document and I think also a few other normative statements that are not really necessary so Spencer and I reviewed the document last week and went over a lot of these and now we have a pull request that removes a lot of those um we think that the draft is stable enough to make this change now that's why we deferred this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "until now but we did it now and the P request is open um I yeah I think there's not much to discuss about this anymore um next slide so in it F18 we also discussed datagram use and the discussion was basically whether we should allow sending streams and datagrams at the same time and our understanding was that it may or there were two contradicting uh opinions it may be um one of them was that it may be not may not make sense to send both at the same time or switch between them all the time like you don't want to send a stream and then send a few packets of datagrams and then switch switch back uh but that it may have some use cases for example sending iframes and streams and P frames in uh data Rams or F packets in data Rams or something like that so the draft currently allows these cases it doesn't really say much about what you should or should not do give some guidance on what are the advantages and disadvantages of datagrams and streams but it doesn't say you have to choose one and then stick to it um we currently don't think think that we need to restrict this uh if there are reasons why we should do then please let us know otherwi we will um yeah keep the guidance as it is now and then don't do anything about this anymore um because we don't see any reason to restrict it all right next slide um yeah this is about some wording in the motivation section which I think mentioned multiple passes where it should actually be multiple uh or multiple connections where it should be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "passes um we have a poll request for that that we plan to merge and yeah it's basically about wording this one uh next slide please uh appex B is the one that lists all the rtcp analyzes that we did a couple of months ago uh where we have large tables that list a lot of rtcp packets and how they could be map too quick in the end there are not many of them left anymore we have uh one section I think it's Section Eight in document that still lists a few of them which could easily be mapped but then we have the soul appendix that lists a lot more packets and says for a lot of them that it's not possible because they don't really make sense in quick it doesn't make sense to map them to Quick um we've reviewed this once now but it would be nice if some experts on rtcp could review this again um yeah we have the P request which already clears a few question marks we had in there but I think uh yeah it would be good if some someone who knows the details of some of these packets would look at that again um and yeah I think it's a good time to do that now because we don't expect large changes to that anymore otherwise um next slide please another reviewing task we have datagram as a word in the document quite often and a lot of times it's men it's used as quick datagrams and sometimes it's used at UDP datagrams and we should make sure that is that it is used consistently uh we plan to review this now because we think that we don't have large changes anymore that would make us review this twice so uh there will probably be pull request for this in the near future and again of course please have a look at that so we don't miss anything as well next SL uh this is also just wording we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "a p request for this where we mixed up term congestion control where we meant I think we used rate adaptation where we were talking about congestion control algorithms specific algorithms uh so we changed that um but there's a pull request with that which we plan to merge and close the issue next slide and then we have one new issue which is about some references which are missing in uh Thea sections and the appendix B that I mentioned earlier where we plan to just add some references to the um sections uh but yeah this is also more documentation and I think that's the last one next slide yeah so then uh we think it may be time to revisit as DP for RTP over quick again Spencer created this draft some time ago um then we decided to spend time on RTP over quick itself first before we Define the signaling for it and now it may be a good time to come back to sdp draft to align it with the RTP over quick specification uh Spencer is interested in collaborators for this um do you want to say anything else about this or uh only only that uh Victor uh has uh graciously uh offered to uh assist uh as well I got that got his email this morning before the meeting so I appreciate that Victor okay cool thank you um I guess the other question there would be whether we're allowed to take that into scope or whether it' have to be on music I think it would probably be easier to have them in the same document probably I have them in the same group you know the two things going together but um need to check Charter stuff and with the ads I I think what we just when we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "talked about this a long time ago because I got as far as uh requesting uh working group adoption and what we said a long time ago was uh do them in the same group and make sure that uh we ask uh m music to review it okay that seems reasonable to me so I I think I was agreeing with you but I I'm reminding you that you're that I agree with what you used to say too yeah no I I I I that sounds like a smart smart comment of mine I must have been smart backr it was a good day yeah yeah all right next slide um next steps so this is the first time in a long time that the next step slide doesn't list a lot of issues which we're going to work on next because we just went through all the open issues um we would like to hear the working group's opinion on whether they agree with the direction we are heading and whether it makes sense to publish it after the changes we just presented we're going to make um and if there are any blockers that uh are there for this document um theyard yeah I'll just say uh just give my opinion was it's obviously early but it's useful I think it would be useful to have a published document out there um we probably should have a conversation about the level um because you know I I don't know that it proposed standard is the appropriate thing because there's so many questions it might be like experimental and uh but we can talk about that of course these days do something that's sorry something experimental they usually want to ask what the what is the experiment sorry St think we and and well actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "actually that was a very helpful thing for you to say um the the thing I was going to say was uh that uh the the people that I know that are curious about using this uh especially in other sdos are looking for a stable specification not necessarily for a standard track spe ification uh if if if people if people if if people know someone who needs it to be standard track that would be a good thing for us to know uh otherwise I'd be I'd be fine with a stable exper uh experimental draft or RC yeah I think we should uh probably chair should discuss it because as Jonathan said the isg is asking for more info I think they want to Define you know what open issues were and what people would work on during the experiment you know exactly what but um you know let's continue talking about that but the good thing is with experimental you don't have to feel like you've answered every question like we've you talked about a bunch of stuff We're Not Gonna cover that's all cool here's what we didn't do we can do it later you know it's it's just more flexible yeah that that like I said that works for me yeah I agree I think um that works for me too maybe we should open an issue on kind of uh you could call it next steps like things that we're not going to cover but things that are interesting um and Jonathan and I will try to figure out what the isg wants and you know to define the terms of the experiment but I think probably there it's like about questions that need to be answered that you don't know the answer to something like that yeah we should probably talk to our ad see now that we have now that we're in a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "new work now that we're in new area should talk to our new ad or not exactly new ad but still good job yeah but I think I think trans you know in so far as we're inheriting the legacy of Transport I think transport is pretty comfortable with things like here's a new congestion control algorithm we don't know if it works but we're publishing it so people can see and I think you know this is kind of the same thing yeah and traditionally in transport area that that has been published as experimental or yeah or as informational but not standard track yes yeah so yeah I think we should probably you know try to take this up you know discuss this with the ad at some point um and then figure out uh you know whether they would prefer basically we don't think this is baked enough to be fully standard track but would they prefer experimental or informational the nice thing about experimental is it can it can later be promoted to proposed that's true without having to actually do any without having to so that's kind of nicer yeah okay right um the other I I'm sorry I had a I had a clever thought that just went away please please continue all right I think I'm done with this for today okay well thank you and thank uh thank everyone for their their feedback on that uh Mr chairs um so Stefan was taking notes in something that was ABT core-- z00 I was taking notes in something that's a core-1 uh if you open the uh if you open"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "the uh notes tool in uh uh here that in uh beo you get Z1 would you would you like me to combine these notes and uh if so which one would you like them to be in uh yes yes please and I think the one that's showing up in the in the uh window it might be easier I don't know probably I don't know I mean where I don't know where what what link Stefan followed the got the 0000 one I I would just copy copy Stefan stuff into into this one because I see Spencer's notes I don't see Stefan's um and uh like I say that's that's that's because it's in a different URL yeah I'm I'm back and I took my URL uh from the data tracker entry and not from me Echo because I set that up before I joined me Echo so maybe someone should put a a note into the tools team that they still have bucks and my standard answer to that meat Echo is a bug and should be dumped anyway yeah Spencer you you consolidate right uh yeah I I can consolidate and I'm so far I only have to consolidate part of my part of my stuff so um okay so then then I will notes from now on in d0 and you copy your stuff from your d01 into the 0 please I think that's that's the easiest because I have already a lot of notes there yeah there's take I see I see them yes I yes okay cool great okay thanks then we will we'll grab the minutes at the end from the z00 sounds good thank you thank you s frame and Peter I guess all right next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "slide so next last time Harold brought up a new problem or we thought it was a new problem that the inner payload type as opposed to the outer payload type which says s frame the inner payload type being I don't know vpa is encrypted so an SFU can't read it or rewrite it next slide so I thought okay the solution is to put that inner payload type into each outer packet the one that's produced from this document or from an implementation of this document so that this if you can read it and rewrite it and I realized that's what's already in the document so this first field on the left media payLo type that's what that is and the only thing into in encrypted in this document is that part that I grade out called fragment everything else is encrypted hop by hop so the uh SFU would be able to read decrypt read rewrite re-encrypt the other portions the media payload type Etc it could also rep packetize which is one of the reasons uh for this document so I think think that last time when we talked about this we just forgot about this but maybe there was something I was missing so my question for everybody is does this solve that problem or am I still missing something it seems like it to me if that's Hy hop then you know that's what the whole point of hopy hop things is the SFU can read and rewrite them so okay any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:08",
    "text": "opinions well unless somebody notices a problem with this then basically the thing that Harold brought up last time is solved or was already solved um so we can move on to the next slide which returns to the old problem that never really got answered and I think is the only remaining issue uh which is when we convert basically from the uh unencrypted packets to the encrypted packets we have to copy over header extensions and the question is do we copy over all of them and if we copy all over all of them then the SFU can read and rewrite all of them which is great but the downside is that maybe there's too much duplication so then the question is is it worth trying to avoid this duplication and if so how do we decide which things don't get duplicated so the easiest thing would be to say just duplicate them all and then we're done uh but we just would have some amount of duplication I mean the other thing you sorry Stu on you let to keep it for um so my immediate gut reaction to that is uh if if this is a question of of um bandwidth right I wouldn't worry um I rather have the flexibility to put some stuff out into the um uh into a header extension which I may not even know what that is in the future uh but which which I need access to uh for for whatever reason yeah so layer ID some some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "um weird um you know if you have an uh what is called stereoscopic thing and you want to put only one of the images out or multi all that stuff right um we don't even know what what needs to be exposed to make meaningful uh decisions in the SFU for for newer payload types so I would rather I would rather say whatever's in there needs to be copied out so that people who actually um write those possible headche extensions um can rely on that that someone else can see it you know uh I hope that's not creating too much worries from the security Forks but then again um no one will deploy a super secure SFU that doesn't do its job right so thank you okay thank you yeah um and yeah so I I was going to say I think my inclination would probably be to say you know you should generally should unless you have some strong reason not to um but I think you know so I leave some flexibility to implementations to do some to do you know something sensible even if it's but you know the bias should generally be towards do it and you know if you have duplicated information maybe remove it from the the inner um rather than you know and rather than removing it from the outer but why would you do that I mean I I I can see the point of of um of avoiding putting too much unencrypted stuff outside because that negates all the security uh blah blah but um I can't see this for the purpose of saving a few bits yeah just one comment we're we're a bit behind now so I think we need to W stuff up and take it to the list all right I I think yeah I think I got enough feedback here so let's let's just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "move on to the last slide which is uh last time when I asked about implementations Harold said Google's interested in implementing this but un sure of the time frame so I'd like to know if anyone if that's changed if anyone's interested or has a time frame but you don't have to answer right now if you don't have an answer because we're behind time but if it has changed let me know and that's my last slide all right thank you and Harold's not here anyway okay so AG that next I guess all right thanks uh next page yeah so we received comments from in last meeting mainly about how to handle the request for temporal and spatial resolution that is great than what it was negotiated in sdp so when uh some comments suggest to describe what the receive does which works better than try to control what send is doing and it is also desirable to send some response so the sender won't keep retransmitting So based on all those comments we update the draft mainly to include the scenario that the temporal and the spatial resolution may be great than the the sdp value so there's two update one is in the message format because in the uh draft the encoder um may not change the frame rate or picture resolution under certain conditions so in that case uh the the return value or the notification value may be different from the request one previously we only include condition that uh the for the pre-encoded content or that in some cases just encoder cannot change so here we add the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "scenario that when the request temporal and the spatial resolution are larger than the temporal resolution negotiated by sdp and second update is in the security consideration we include those uh scenarios into um into as the the first uh message first is the severely increased picture resolution due to false uh TSR message that set the picture width and height to a value that is larger than the value negotiated by sdp second is about frame rate same things so those are two update and hopefully it can address the comments um raised in last meeting yeah that's all any comments or or questions just sounds good to me yeah we update uh upload the uh second draft in last October so far we didn't receive any major comments so may I ask what what's the next step um I think if all known open issues are resolved The Next Step would be to do go to a working group last call um so we we'll need to figure out what the U I guess the chairs will need to figure out what the um what our que should be for various things that that are ready to go but um I guess just put in the minutes that uh we think it's ready for let call and chairs to um issue one when we think I think also this this relates to our GitHub action item to figure out how we this this one doesn't have a GitHub or does it I I don't think so okay anyway we can we can figure that yeah I mean you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:04",
    "text": "don't yeah go ahead yeah next slide please yeah so this is the uh first draft we uh published uh last week uh related to rtcp feedback uh message timing configuration so motivation for this uh publish uh publishing this uh um draft is uh rtcp for a specific feedback doesn't uh currently we can negotiate the uh interval or like uh timing configuration uh through application uh so there is a a provision TR int exist uh through RFC 4585 uh but that's specific to only um a regular rtcp pack packet uh which is full compound packet and uh there's no other um uh negotiation uh applicable to like a particular feedback so what we are proposing uh here is uh as part of STP uh a new parameter uh a feedback meantime uh is uh negotiated where uh we can provide in millisecond uh what the feedback message meantime uh would be so uh depending on the type of uh rtcp feedback uh you could have uh either it's a interval or it could be for a event based uh nonperiodic rtcp feedbacks it could mean uh when to trigger that um based on this main time next slide please so uh few of the examples uh uh to give the context uh how it is applicable uh for example transport CC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "uh feedback which is used for congestion control um so now receiver can uh configure U the periodicity uh through STP for example 50 millisecond and in cases where application sees it fit uh slightly more uh frequent or relaxed based on its Uplink uh behavior and applications adaptability to low latency uh or uh latency considerations it can have a slightly aggressive uh feedbacks time configured so that's the one targeted use case other one is uh picture loss indication rtcp feedback uh where um you configure 50 millisecond again as the um time in configuration which application uh as in the the stack could use the to generate pis when the decoder is starving for 50 milliseconds uh so this would give more again low latency scenarios where it is not acceptable to like wait for longer time they can uh fine tune it to uh their desirability um for knack for Knack request uh rtcp uh messages uh you could have a timing configuration uh which would mean that when would you want to generate Knack based on packet loss uh not every packet loss need to be triggered um uh Knack request because uh you would have out of order packets and some Jitter in the network uh the application can uh fine-tune this uh the the rtcp feedback uh Knack request uh let's say 1 millisecond so the the stack bits for at least one millisecond before it it it uh generates The Knack request for that uh packet loss next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "please so along with uh the time configuration uh one more optional parameter uh sync counter is proposed uh basically sync counter is trying to synchronize the feedback uh with the uh RTP timestamp change which is typically the frame boundaries uh there is a value add in uh generating some of the rtcp feedbacks when there is a change in RTP time stamp being you have a a boundary of uh frames so that uh the feedback has most data in it and uh rather than a partial data from overlap between different uh frames so this is a optional field uh proposed uh along with uh mtime uh and so this syn counter can is more like a u a good to have but a time constraint is more uh is the more which is going to take precedent whenever syn counter does not take uh uh is not present or even if it doesn't uh validate yeah uh so this is a proposal uh first draft so uh hopefully we'll get um some feedback on our proposal uh any comments yeah joh um yeah so just I'll take advantage of my yeah my ability to run the slides I'm a little confused here because it seems like some of these it's saying um send like it said the first one says seems to say at least send at least every 50 milliseconds but the last one s says send at most every one millisecond so it seems like there's two different semantics going on here or am I confused uh so basically so for periodicity uh feedbacks uh that's a mintime interval and for other things other feedbacks which is event based uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "that's more like wi Min uh wait time to like uh generate uh the feedback so if it's if I decided feedback minimum time 50 milliseconds but I decided no I feel like doing it every once a second that would be in conformance with the spec uh I mean uh if the application doesn't spef if I uh the stack can still go ahead with 1 second uh I would say spec if the application requests 50 millisecond I think it should already here to 50 millisecond but what does it here mean if it's minimum the minimum is yeah um that's what I'm confused about because it seems like the which way you're bounding it seems to go in different directions with the different examples so do we have here an sorry for jumping in but do we have here a presentation problem or draft problem um do you know I don't know I actually I would I would like to read this draft this is too new for me to read a comment on it I would like to read this draft first before before dealing with this yeah I agree sorry I'm sorry for not reading your draft I should have um yeah the other question I would have is how does this interact with rtcb bandwidth constraints but I will see if I try read that in the draft as well I'm sorry okay yeah so sounds like you know we should people should read the draft and comment on in the mailing list is the next up I will have one comment though and that is um my usual IPR Watch Dog role um self assumed um you do know what the note well says right and you do know that you have to make a patent declaration if you have a patent on this and early and we are not in the ID want to do it late you have to do this type of stuff early you you're aware of that I hope thank you yes uh I mean we don't have anything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "pending on this to be published here wonderful thank you hello can you hear my voice hello yes I can okay thank you um hello everyone um I'm H and today I will present about ill for haptics so next slide please uh next slide please oh okay thank you um yeah in the last leg meeting in the Prague we had a presentation for this draft and we quite quite good we got a quite good feedback thank you and uh after that we got some comment from the Spencer so uh based on that we Weis the draft and the public draft version1 on the February 5th and in that draft so we little be update some terminology and abbreviations and havec definition And to clarify the definition we little bit uh repay some text uh for the next step so we are as you mentioned before we are preparing to share the fdis document for a core groups and then the everything is done after this presentation I just want to reest for the working audition call uh next slide um so uh based on the sponsor comments we added the full name for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "abbreviation and um in the previous uh version of this draft we included two word with the same meaning but uh this cause confusion so we replace them with one single word so uh we unified all the sync word under the Tom independent and non sync uh we unified all non sync Tom under the Tom inde dependent uh next slide please and um we also added some Tom in the definition section three and the order the Tom reference the iso haptic document uh next slide please and uh to clarify the definition of the AR the header uh we moved the example of the header usage to the another sections um next slide please uh and then we are added uh add is original parameter information to indicate your source and then we also um um update haptic um hmpg with IA information so you can see that in the section uh 10 and the six and 6.1 um next slide next slide please uh and in terms of the implementation we repa the text to reflect the scalability of the hpch technology so we uh you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:03",
    "text": "see that in the section for that three and next slide please um about our future plan so uh one of the main document which is relate to our draft is 23090 D31 so this is a hatic coding so we'll be ready for sharing with the um Ab Core in couple of weeks so uh maybe you can you can check the that you can check this uh document uh before March I think um next slide please so uh um so and then we we plan to update the draft shortly with a tax on agregation and security considerations uh but I think it's not big part of it and the our suggestion and the feedbacks are welcome and and then we also we are looking for the people interested in reviewing and implementing or the participating in the draft so uh uh please leave you the desp and then everything is good I I'd like to want to reest for the walking gr AUD Co thank you uh any comment um yeah I think it sounds like this is probably in shape for adoption so um Berard and I will I guess note takers please put a note to us to uh do to discuss when we're going to do that option okay thank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "you thank you okay I think then that is everything unless anybody has any other business they would like to discuss all right well everybody thank you for participating and as mentioned please review drafts as appropriate for um yeah it might be if we have a a minute or two just go over the action items we have from the notes just make sure we got everything oh that's good idea yes all right uh let's see okay let me let me try you want me to run this or you run this Jonathan you want um if you can just say what they are and then yeah I'll I'll try um yeah you can just say what they are okay um I'll have to this Hedgehog doesn't allow me to use color coding so I have to to find this by going through the noes so one is um regarding uh the hvbc profile uh the next steps there is to discuss with RTC web uh and specifically the jsap um um this draft right that coordination uh oh before that U for the j2k we have an action item for the chairs figure out the working group GitHub repo also need a place for test vectors and the like and um the next one there were a number of action items regarding RTP over quick uh that the authors take care of like closing issues and starting a new issue and the like right uh I don't have those uh detailed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:05",
    "text": "out s frame uh nothing uh rtcp green metad data the chairs should consider timing for the working group last call then uh RTP CCP feedback message timing confirmation uh nothing and tap takes uh again just sorry for for for um feedback message timing we we were requesting um that you know people try to review the draft and come it on the list but that's oh yeah okay well that's that goes for everything but I proba do that okay done and uh again for ha takes uh you guys want to discuss a timing for the adoption call and make the adoption call and I think that's it all right that sounds good okay thank you everyone we have somebody people in the queue you ah hi um go ahead I'm I'm sorry for I'm sorry to forget it but the I just want to clear that we had IP declaration uh two months ago so you can see the detail in in the draft thank you thank you and us yeah just wanted to add because from the previous meeting we had that uh we had the agreement on the viewport and region of Interest dependent delivery of the v3c media so working group adoption call for that as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "well uh I'd like to request to put that in the action it so that we don't forget that okay just give me a check a chance here that was that was up in the in the um uh at the initial uh chair slides right yes yes yes yes yes okay I miss that to to tell you um I'm looking looking looking looking yeah I see I see that I see that on the it's not yeah yeah oh yeah that's I I didn't mark it as an action item but it is of course an action item here uh action item uh so B group adoption call soon is what it says sure thank you okay good yeah thank you it's it's has now marked AI it's now marked with AI thank you is there anyone else in the queue uh no anybody else have anything they wanted to say otherwise we will finish up yes thank you everyone and uh we will see you at i19 virtually or physically yeah thank you everybody for the feedback it's super helpful thank you bye-bye thank you guys thank you bye everybody"
  }
]
