[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I think we can get started welcome to the DMM working group this is the organ obsession so today a couple of things my co-chair dapeng is not here and this is a shriek and overly from Cisco and or ad suresh should be joining any time but we can get started so a couple of things this meeting is governed under some IETF rules and regulations these are captured in various IETF specifications please be aware of thought regarding IPR policy and with respect to what you say right please be mindful of that and before the meeting I think blue sheets waiting for Stephanie you know we don\u0027t have the blue sheets yet but maybe we can yeah I didn\u0027t I asked one of the guy he said little pink I think she\u0027s in a meeting but now it\u0027s mine so welcomes rational and minute takers I think you know right yeah Hassan and Pablo and just some background the deadline for the slides was Saturday and surprisingly they send the slides on Saturday morning but they put a ETA one or two that threw them back to the next day and they won the award for the you know note takers so thank you sir Thank You Pablo so a couple of things I think the status of the various working of documents I think the first thing is on-demand mobility document this as you remember this clear at the IETF last call and it also cleared when - pretty much it\u0027s it\u0027s not the a degree you know not idea last concert the working of Lascaux but it\u0027s on the ad and there were few reviews what is he what is yes fine maybe expert review yeah to see you dot yeah suresh krisshnan rakendu anand the working group on this is not very clear because there didn\u0027t seem to be much support at least on the mailing list and so so one of the things like i thought would be useful was like you know some kind of implementation commitments because we spoke to Danny like she and I spoke to the lead author and he said like you know somebody\u0027s considering "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "implementing so that would have been like a nice way to show it I also thought of like an alternate way of doing that would be to do like a quick check on the mailing list saying like hey like are you interested in this progressing and that would be like how things fine with me too so I don\u0027t mind sending a mail to the mailing list like that\u0027s fine with you I\u0027ll just send a note saying hey I interested in this track progressing because I do want to see like a trail of like people who are interested in this progressing outside the author said really and that\u0027s pretty much it so III I don\u0027t think like you know just a commitment from OS vendor is something that\u0027s required right now but I want some kind of interest and I also had another chat with like the authors like one of the things in idea we haven\u0027t done okay so we used to do this a long time ago but we don\u0027t do socket interface stuff okay and this came up in interior yesterday as well and so the actual sea socket API definitions are being done by POSIX not by us okay so like so another thing that probably needs to get done here is like make it a bit more Kendrick in a take out the hash include night a night like stuff and things like that right so those things probably have to get ironed out a little bit so Danny are you here Danny\u0027s not here so I think we know how to go forward from there okay that helps rich thank you for that update yeah sorry on Charlie Bergin see ya if we can\u0027t use sockets is there some generic guys API that\u0027s approved by the is G just do we just use function names paren parameters close paren and then we can make some magic statement about typical include files are to be used okay yeah so like again this has come up as a design pattern in multiple places which didn\u0027t work right we did the Miss API didn\u0027t get through right like PVD miss PVD API didn\u0027t get through and and so on and the one thing we know like for sure works I think is the gssapi so I think we can probably get inspired by that like that\u0027s kind of successful example I think fair I think I agree with what you said so rich only thing I want to be little bit sensitive is the amount of time the authors have invested because you know I think there is this because it\u0027s so late in the game I want to be little bit sensitive on that aspect because there\u0027s a element of frustration that I think we should address it properly yeah Suresh again so III think that\u0027s a fair point right and I really think we should I know this thing came during the chair transition so like I think it\u0027s kind of slipped in between but our really expected like this decision to be done like much further ahead I think in December 2016 so this document was working group last called in December 26 ice okay so it\u0027s almost two years since so that\u0027s really I would have said like okay at that point aside like to take this forward or not Legrand I do think I understand the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "sensitivity yeah definitely on the socket thing even normally on a good day I would definitely I don\u0027t have progressed this but it\u0027s it\u0027s not my decision yet so I think yeah we have a way forward on that let\u0027s see how those discussions come now next going to the deployment models this is one you know I think I was one of the co-author on this but for you know this came would much earlier but we are not seeing much value in this and I mentioned in IETF one or two and I don\u0027t think it brings any value to the industry or to anybody at this point to progress the document so therefore as author and also the chair I thought you know withdrawal is the right thing I\u0027ve notified the quarter and I think this was also notified in the previous idea but just to be you know for the process to be completed we\u0027ll close it formally and we\u0027ll remove now the next one is services for mobile user I think good work is going in but again a couple of things I think two things haven\u0027t the discussions are still light maybe maybe it\u0027s still more reviews are needed that is one thing I think the I think offline conversation authors wanted to include end marker support but I think for to eliminate any feature creep on this I want to be extremely careful here not to you know we are okay with the additional documents but not wrote this document but that\u0027s my view but you should take yeah so the other one impose I agree that the end mark I mention in these stars make kind of a being Sita kissed and yeah complicity I think it\u0027ll be good to have another document to describe in tomorrow yeah because n marker has so many configurations like as big easy as gateway relegation you know all of these modes to complete that this is impossible to capture in this document so I think that\u0027s one thing but in general subtle is on when do you think we\u0027ll be able to I know your presentation but just quick word what is the timeline looking light because you know for closing this work I don\u0027t mention later but let me say a little bit um I think they all be almost done I mean main part so I think we need to improve the clarity and readability so okay I think it would be a big part so I don\u0027t think entitle sick we need much more time so you think this needs to be run to spring working group as well or you think okay as a dino it doesn\u0027t need to run through but I think we\u0027ll get a routing director to review at some point in the process but I kind of want like a little bit more review in the working group so I think he\u0027ll be good sorry if we can take some names of people today like like you know you go to last column - okay the next one is v6 there is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "colosseo Carlos any update quick update one minute update on this I know you have presentation but still I will present later but basically we have a couple of detailed reviews since last ITF you know you mentioned there was some minor update we type two updates based on the producer we have foreign Lyle and from Danny so that\u0027s been going on yeah but no discussions on the major I think this you know you know before we officially asked for reviewers but I think you\u0027re at this point you guys need to solicit some reviews and get some feedback at this point I mean that we got two reviews posted on there mainly so I agree that we need more but I mean that we actually could I think the FPC we will talk about this I think I think in general authors believe it\u0027s in a complicated state but we\u0027ll talk about it and finally the anchoring I think that\u0027s also I think Carlos rewrite but pretty much you know I think at least the document looks much much much better than before but still it needs more reviews I think finally one previous work item which is a memory document I think it\u0027s is your prove it now it\u0027s published as RFC 83 Sun one congratulations chart it\u0027s probably this was first published maybe like you know all right yeah so with that I think we call for the first presentation and I think [Music] [Music] [Music] Fatoumata Mejia I bring some update on the it\u0027s a basic form of ELISA frame bathroom number zero three I missed ITIF C\u0027s number so then I got a lot of the note-taker thank you very much sure pretty XY thank you so here\u0027s somebody of the update from Division two to Division three so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "we define the one argument as I said at the part of the segment ID which is called args dot mob dot some session for the assadist mobile is a plane that indicate the qfi and rqi and PD session ID that supply has a seat argument q-final rqi it\u0027s defined in CPP document but PD session ID is actually not tied to the CPP specific specifications but but in the context of a CVP sophistication we put it on T ID but it could be it could see open to other mobile control plane control control plane protocol protocol so the seat may use the argument if required by UPF so next one its modified encode map function so previously we just defined this function to swap the seat just only destination hit but this version include the the future if the mapped a seat and puts our policy include one more one or more si D in the reserve policy so the third it we added new terminology section for abbreviation and the convention so that makes people help to understand and to Barry SR basic specific terminology and convention so rusting the we added new terminal detection for predefined a service function so it\u0027s also helpful to the people not aware of the service externally any function so that come from the screening document so this is a brief snapshot of the argument of the art Mobb session format it is a 40-bit argument that we you can see the qfi in in the raft and the one bit is read out and another bit is in decay I\u0027m sorry one bit indicate rqi one bit in bit seven it\u0027s undefined and the best sagittal bit is to indicate video session in the seeds poppy context it it it could be filled by tid so next so next step we need to extend function coverage but other I talked before the end marker will be good to describe in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "another document and the some ID or the exist using orbit in decelerator or we have a indicator of the SL in the marker or other gtp you related methyl message in the seat and the other is it will be nice to her but if we can it\u0027ll be good if you have another concise an example of how to use your ideas our basics it to the required user plan function but I don\u0027t think it\u0027ll be necessary to be in the document so so we did certain improvement in terms of clarity and readability thank you for Chari and but I think we need more review from the working groups so they won was it one of them it\u0027s the anchor anchoring clarification pointed out by canoe and other would be have another mod opinion so please know I\u0027m Charlie Perkins could you put it back on the org mob session slide yeah that so I believe that it\u0027s useful to have te ID and you understand why it would be handy to have that as part of the data available to the segment routing but args is a very very general term and there\u0027s you might it seemed like to me that it would be better to find a more specific name for this I mean you for instance you could say this is the te ID dot mob dot session format or something like that because that\u0027s really what it\u0027s about is to put in the TE ID and sort of for convenience you had the qf ID so you can know how to handle the flow and then there\u0027s a special meaning to the are bit that has to do with whether or not you can infer by directionality for the flow well that kind of stuff is not obvious to people reading this document and I found out about it was about plowing through some 3gpp stuff that wasn\u0027t cited and so that\u0027s not a good situation and I think it would be at least more expedient if we could find a name for this there was much much more specific for its purpose thank you yeah and the concept of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "this naming is come from the the custom of you what SRP CX dot men or they define so then we follow that custom but yeah I think a much more clear idea could improve the readability and help understand for the people okay yeah this is Ken Theresa from to tidy see what say you name again please Kentaro can Teresa thank you no actually I have to comment and I sent two of them to the mailing list this week one is that I think we\u0027re trying to implement I found that sue decoding for and m GT p 4e is either inaccurate or or hard to understand and actually I sent the one which I think correct so if you could review it and update if is inaccurate and one more comment is that about T dot n dot T mass name this dysfunction is translating my db4 GT in place every six which corresponds to end mg T P six dot d for ipv6 GTP and if I\u0027m not sure if there\u0027s any reason you did not put gtp in the name but if there is no reason then I I would suggest that with gtp in the name to qualify that this is about GTP and not other type of tunnel Sakura Sakura I understand your opinion and that\u0027s exists of the ability to naming space so yeah I think we can improve okay thanks for the feedback let\u0027s so make sure that artists okay okay one of the things I was concerned about is the SRH insertion stuff in the in the draft it\u0027s like you know we had this really long conversation in six-man and I really don\u0027t want this to draft to get ahead on that okay so I have a couple of ways to resolve this okay so one of them is put the header insertion as a precondition for this to go forward there\u0027s a graph about Harry insertion which is the draft wire header insertion right but just to make sure I understand Sarah you\u0027re talking about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "correct so like and it\u0027s a main the draft but it\u0027s in the raft it says me okay okay but it\u0027s in the raft so Alice we know how to do this properly I cannot progress this draft okay so as I said couple of ways forward like either keep it out and add it in later and when that other thing happens or just like I\u0027ll take care of the dependencies myself so you keep this and let this go on but I want a reference to graph wire in this because this draft does not have a reference to draw fire okay so just add that and then I\u0027ll keep track of the dependencies myself and the other thing is like you know this thing has a strong dependency on on SR v6 itself that\u0027s one thing and it has a dependency on draft fizz fizz network programming which is not even a working group draft anywhere so there\u0027s like quite a bit of dependencies that are required so I\u0027m I\u0027m a bit worried like but buddy Oh with the what I wanted to say is when you are ready push it don\u0027t wait for the other things to happen I\u0027ll make sure the other things happen before this progresses further okay yeah sweating the may part yeah the glass specifically says like you may turn on Suresh insertions so I was under the impression it\u0027s only then kept more now right now we are using the Suraj but the dress is that so that\u0027s why I did check so it does say that so just like mmm make it a decision that\u0027s fine either way is fine as long as this consensus I\u0027m going to take this forward but just remember that this other dependencies on this Isis thank you I think if we can deal with with those issues also dependency we can minimize the dependency to going forward the BOK thank you thank you son now we want some reviews actually can you know can you guys like you know who is can some of you volunteer to review this document please okay please okay hopefully can get their names Carlos and Amir circus on top yes\u0027m thank you so much okay thank you sir thank you I think [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "[Music] son update on the destroyed mobility and [Music] okay so hi everyone in California and I will quickly review the state of this with the mobility and Korean draft so the status of the draft well has been significantly updated in London that was the main the main change for a while and as I mentioned there and as I mentioned in Montreal we came from 46 pages to 15 and now we are in C in 17 pages so we tried to reduce complexity and try to make the comment simpler because also the cost of the documents were not that complex it was about introducing the distributed and Korean concept so then in Montreal we got or after month well PDI after months are pretty soon after mantra we got a detailed review by Lyle thanks for that and we address the comments at of that review now so it will summarize later well the dreyfuses available on github for anyone of you wanna take a look and also contribute there so this is the overview of the current version so basically as I mentioned we try to simplify a lot the content and now it\u0027s basically everything around this describing the three main cases for the for the encoding which are the know Mary case the Mobility case with traffic regulation and the mobility case with uncle revocation which is what I summarized on this slide so basically in a mini cases where there is no others continuity require so basically when you move you change your IP address and that\u0027s all we have to Mobility cases one is the traffic redirection case well basically you need other continuity I\u0027m basically the way you achieve that is by getting or by getting by getting the traffic from the previous anchor forwarded to the current anchor and then there is and you keep using the the ol IP address of course and then there is this additional case we see colon quarry location where you require a discontinuity but then you have real mobility of anchors and it\u0027s a bit more complex of course so the three cases are documented with some general diagrams trying to use simple notation and because the first version were a bit heavy on on on the notation I was hard to follow so next steps we believe that the document is table has gone through several detail reviews including the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:22",
    "text": "one from line in the last site colon and the one from Marco before I was very helpful to try to simplify the the document this document has been there for a long time so I honestly believe that is the moment to make it go forward basically we will never happen that\u0027s my honest opinion so of course I\u0027m open to get as many reviews as possible and to address comments but I only believe that we need to really go for the new Blas Kali we really want to move the document forward right yeah thanks godless so I know it\u0027s been there for a while but if you look at the last rewrite it\u0027s practically reset the whole thing all right it was a significant rewrite yeah but that\u0027s that was in in London so we\u0027ve been already a couple of reviews from people that that computer right so I think now is it\u0027s simple to read it should be I mean it\u0027s a very simple document no no high expectations of what are these documents about and I think that the energy is going in the room to other topics so if we keep this thing there for a while you will probably I mean okay so that\u0027s my main concern sure let\u0027s close it from but from your point of view you think this is technically technically I think the technical correctness there absolutely sure that no shit yeah well get some reviews and okay any questions yeah so again for this document we need some reviews and I think folks can you please volunteer we need help from the working group otherwise we cannot produce documents this is you know I think we depend on the community so Charlie Perkins and John John and any we need one more review please at least Marco okay okay good perfect thanks alright any any anyone else all right thank you [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] okay so I\u0027m kind of run over again present in the proximally piece extensions for the SU the mobility management okay so this is the outline I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:31",
    "text": "will quickly go through the story again and stay to a very quick overview and then next steps if somebody wants details about the solution there are some backup slides but I I think I will omit unless somebody wants to go into details so this is the status and story of the drug he was allotted working with document after London in the 0-1 version we address all the comments that we received early in the working coop adoption call then in the 0-2 version that already happened since Montreal we address a Lisle detail review and then in Silla three version which is the current one we also addressed the Danny\u0027s comments I will summarize the comment that we reviewed in a next slide so quick overview so the document is about a network based solution for DMM based on team EEP so basically we push the mobility management to the to the edge at the access router level so instead of having one single anchor we have multiple anchors for the data plane and we have a one control plane entity so we have centralized control plane which kind of anime that is called C and D and then I through the data plane so it\u0027s accident router where the movie not can attach to become a Mac from the data playing point of view on us as an LMA for the end point of view for the addresses that that passes router delegates to the to the momo a note it\u0027s time it attached to one of these these root identities it will obtain an IP prefix from that anchor and it will remain getting continuity for the other addresses that it got on previous access router so that\u0027s why this is routed entities play the role of Mac and LM a for the data play okay so it\u0027s seen you since last IDF so in C wrote two versions that was basically addressing live comments we improve terminology based on his review we added a lot of text on the registration that was something that we even focused much or enough on the previous version and we also had a lot of clarifying text the Encino 3 version that was also based on a detail review from Danny we also did a lot of text improvement based on the suggestions from Danny so thanks a lot for that and we also try to improve the way some procedures that were had done with figures were described in the in the text we have the figures but the text and combining the figures were not that as good at it should be and we we trying to improve that to improve readability so again we we believe that I recommend is a stable of course we will appreciate more reviews but at this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:31",
    "text": "point we as from the author\u0027s point of view we really need to get those reviews because we don\u0027t believe there is anything else we may need to be done but to of course address any review that we we make it ok thanks Carlos can you talk about the implementation scripts implementation status well we have on implementations for quite a long time ago because we actually shown that implementation twice in ITF like four or five years ago I don\u0027t remember so implementation there is implementation available and we actually show it there I don\u0027t remember in which I TFS was in battle in 2014 that was one of it and the other one I don\u0027t remember so there is code available and recent publicly available on github so it\u0027s not I mean it\u0027s a public implementation if people wanna try is available so let\u0027s get some additional reviews I think last time you asked for few reviewers they signed up I think your last time we\u0027ll go to reviews Daniel and Lyle yeah I think we need additional reviews on these folks again okay no one in here folks yeah John thank you are you not just I don\u0027t know if you want overloaded with more but that would be a positive course marker is not Ian looking I know okay okay thank you all right yeah okay thanks our Gardens bingo and I think so Irishman wanted to present remotely so I don\u0027t know let\u0027s see if he can now I\u0027ll try if he\u0027s there otherwise we let Oh perfect [Music] oblah that Z is kisses [Music] punishment my name is Arash Mujahideen okay perfect "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "yeah no you married to repeat tyrant if you said something yeah no we can see you alright excellent however my name is Arash mundaka vane I\u0027m going to talk about the the demo that we put together for the SRB six user Playmobil core based on the user mobility draft that situation and the rest have put together as can we go to the next slide please the the effort was was put together but the park was to put together as an effort by a few people around here change and Pablo helped a lot to provide the base code for this and change and provide the actually implementation of the rest of the codes that we put together I put the setup together and during London and Montreal I showed you the the progression from from existing gtp based system 20s or v6 based system the the POC that we put together basically contains the first two steps in the in the set of the demos that we gonna put together as we go forward next please yes so this is this is what we\u0027re gonna cover so the the starting point for us is basically a set of s are the six gateways and the reason we chose this approach is to show that we can actually drop the S or B 6 data plan in in place of gtp without changing the the control point 3gpp control plane so this is cool this goes back to the mandate that 3gpp put forward city for in 3gpp build forward for us to only touch the the data plane and and the control plane was out of the scope based on that we picked up this approach to show that we can actually use SR b6 and smoothly migrate the exist in GDP based user plane - to SRB six based user play next please next setup starts so I\u0027m gonna talk about like this is this is how things are gonna work in in the 5g I don\u0027t have a 5g set up just yet but if this was supposed to be done in the 5g network we have an s MF out there that we\u0027re gonna be using with the end for interface to connect to you PF s and then we\u0027re gonna drop to s our v6 gateway right in the middle the SR v6 gate which could be virtual could be physical boxes or at the end they could actually get incorporated into the UPF s so that we don\u0027t need an actual virtual a box or an another entity in the middle "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "of the network so the idea is basically to pick up the the gtp packet as they come in and pick up the source address destination address and the gtp tunnel ID and pack them into the into the interstate and since in this particular scenario and perhaps for for a long while we\u0027re gonna have to deal only with two UPF therefore we will simply using the RP v six destination address as our CID - to send this information across the across the network once we get the the packet on SR gateway - then we we pick up the destination address we decoded into into it\u0027s original gtp format and shape it to the to the UPF for processing so the UPS in this scenario will basically do not know that there is there is any GS or v6 in the middle the the control plane in 3gpp remains intact and this is simply changing the data plane without the control plane to satisfy 3gpp requirements next please so the idea basically applies to today LTE network as well and this is what we used in our proof of concept you have an even would be and we got a combined SP GW and that\u0027s the link that we are showing it is of course is entry that I\u0027m showing not the N and nine the reason for this is because we are using open source software that combines the SVG WI needed and you don\u0027t want to spend too much time decoupling the the service gate day from the packet gateway and and that\u0027s why we be trying to show the same work on the entry interface which is also applicable easily to 2n9 again the same idea the gtp tunnel extends from a node B to SVG W and we do the same type of decoding as we did in five gene in in 4G LTE network to accomplish the work next slide please so this is the this is the setup that we are using we are using way I open source software along with VPP modified version of the BPS our v6 code there is a USRP SSB 200 the phone that is connected to the to the system we got a couple of war shark the points that actually to to show the packet trace to actually show the conversion that happens right after the e node B and right before the the packets enter the the second second routing gateway you recall born as our gateway a VirtualBox as our second gateway and the the second VM the third server is a combination of service gated "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:34",
    "text": "packet gateway Mme and HSS this is the bundle that we got from it and I I have a more elaborate version of this thing in my lab but if you didn\u0027t want to muck around with the oh I saw for packaging and we basically took it as it was again you will see that you know the packets actually arrived as a as a GTP tunnel packet to to to first service gate to the first segment routing gateway and then get translated across and then get decoded on the other side next please so a couple of couple of screenshots that actually shows the the pink to to the Internet the the far left basically is the is the outside of the e node B as you can see the gtp tunnels are you highlighted the information that is coming in the source address destination address you got the UDP 21:52 port and then the the TU ID on one side or on one side uses incremental te or IDs on the other side it uses the the random number as a TI as I show you the next slide the middle guy basically is like the edge of the second segment routing packet you see that you know the practice information into the into the said we got the source address destination address and the TU ID pack into the state along with an IP prefix that that that is at the beginning of the city coming out of the coming out of the service as well gateway to at the beginning of the entering the this packet gateway that the packet has been returned to to his gtp format and we process the packet at the UPF as if nothing really happened so the UPF the idea is that the ups will not see any any control plane changes next slide please and this is the this is the reverse traffic coming out from the SP GW go into the enol P as you can see we\u0027re just doing the exact opposite the T or ID here is a bit more elaborate because as I said the UI software basically randomizes the te o ID on an away from several Skateway to 2 e note e and but the process is identical we basically sent the GT packet to 2 s or gate number 2 where it basically gets packed into the CID and ship to the he no would be but you taught me guess lien would be on the other side the packet basically has been modified to his gtp format by the SR gateway one and the inner would be basically receives a gtp GT the packet so I believe Chen Jian is in the room he probably you\u0027re right after this is gonna go and set up the the demo outside the room on a desk or something do you have a compact version of this demo that we can actually show to people who are interested so I encourage people to go and have a look and by all means provide us with comments we need your comments to actually go forward the next step I the next step of this demo will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "perhaps deal with a combined mixed ipv6 ipv4 equipments again this is the first phase of migrating the aim of this this park is to show the first phase of the migration path from the existing gtp based system to an S or v6 the next step would be in showing that okay so once we have done such as equipments will turn to ipv6 people perhaps will show a mix ipv6 ipv4 network and be show how things can actually interwork between the two two domains okay so very good any questions yeah I have a couple of questions right so first one is the ASR gateway to prefix so do you assume that it\u0027s going to be a / 32 prefix because like anything longer will not work right because there\u0027s like 32-bit each IP addresses and then 32-bit Eid so you need a / 32 for every node that yes yes for this particular gtp instead of working we have to actually set aside some space for the year for the source address destination address and the tu ID so the rest can be basically did is is allocated to thee to the prefix which which probably works for for for many of the networks right now okay and the second thing you know I found it curious you\u0027re swapping the addresses order is there any reason for that oh I just wanted to make sure that I\u0027m following the draft user mobility using mobility draft because there\u0027s a there\u0027s an encoding in there that has been suggested I\u0027m following that basically okay one quick point O the this of the sit-in generally speaking the structure of the city we can suggest suggest as structure in our in our in our drafts and an IETF can actually propose that thing but I believe that at the end is gonna be 3gpp who\u0027s going to decide us or how this said this structure is going to be done so what we do in OIT F is suggestions to to 3gpp it would be probably changed once it gets to see it it gets to be to the 3gpp and they will decide how how to restructure these things okay um that is the I think the most important question so what happens if you get a v6 gtp packet like if you have a v6 better on there any get a visa to gtp packet yeah so that\u0027s why I\u0027m saying in the next the next step of this demo is gonna cover that because we was getting the the mix ipv4 and ipv6 basically packet and at that point the ipv6 will get an S RH so the SRH with one still basically go in no but how do you carry the t ID like so the this thing will this all the things you put in there will be inside as ID you know yeah if I\u0027m carrying I\u0027m using gtp inside ipv6 then of course I don\u0027t have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "enough room to actually do this then I have to actually create another set within the SRH and carry it okay thanks any other questions okay excellent so Irishman what are the next steps slow so your implementation will continue to expend we\u0027re planning a queue to continue with this and and I have really received interest from several companies to actually work on this with us and hopefully the next the next demo will be a collaboration with between different companies and we have more names on the on the on the POC okay so I think it\u0027s good to document any issues that you know as part of this effort I\u0027m pretty sure your observations and all of that right maybe one of these meetings will get you know another meeting where we can present those issues okay so situation again so I so what\u0027s the plan like do you want to do any work in idea for this to feed this back into satoru sons draft as like results because I see like lot of work to be done here in 3gpp and not here that\u0027s how I see it yes yes so the idea is to basically closely tie this up with settlers on draft and then take this to the next step which is the 3gpp ct4 and basically create the create the mode some some some momentum in there I think it has to be more like a feedback I think you know I think what does this investigation that we are doing it can be a great input the 3gpp so yes yeah yeah mostly at the final consumer and they are going to define the specification but but this yeah that\u0027s why I was always I was alluding to the fact that you know yes we can actually suggest all sort of the structures into the said but I would like to actually when I think when we go to see a city for I want to mention that they are the one who gonna be having the final say in defining all these structures we are just showing them the way they will they will have the trans to actually standardize this the way they like it alright time for sleep good night thanks a lot and again the the demo is outside and we are preparing it to pull you guys to actually see if you were interested sure thank you alright next we have the FPC update from mark I think um so come on does amount of effort went into this document I think I think abut from the chillest point of view I think the situation is you know something not clear exactly you know where we are it\u0027s about this line I remember viewers so it mentions one chair so I\u0027m curious is this you or so you\u0027re clear about it so that\u0027s Epsilon so let me just so since like cannot be here just about recap and the status so we went through twelve revisions that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:37",
    "text": "the version you find on the repository right now we put quite some effort in making the core part clear which describes the operation and information models in the back we still have the young model so since why we have Charlie on board who put some effort in making the core part clear so it doesn\u0027t help if authors say it\u0027s it\u0027s ready for working group last course so we want none of us to understand what\u0027s written in the core part and that\u0027s why we need reviews we got a library view from from Carlos for that we need a little bit more review on a deep dive on the information Marla so if this is understandable reasonably so that kind of feedback would help us a lot to get green light to proceed so I think another may be that key another burning question seems to be able whether the yang model should be separated out what\u0027s your view on the yang model should be separated out or would that help in reviews or I\u0027m trying to see because anytime you know it\u0027s hard to get reviewer commitment or a hundred page document I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a fact right I think it is a big document right I\u0027m just thinking to really you know for the time being is it okay to break that remove the yang stuff and maybe people getting this document will not start reading the young levels they want to start from the beginning tell you what a document is about what the solution does so they start reading the core part so I think separating or keeping the data model together with information model and operational description that\u0027s a separate discussion yeah so I I did do like sad reading the document already I read it so nothing really crazy in there so like it\u0027s I haven\u0027t done like a critical review of the document which I will when she pushes the button but I didn\u0027t see I think the document has improved quite a bit like from the last time I read it and it is much bigger too but III do think it\u0027s gonna be challenging in in ITF when it goes iesg because like Roger the document the larger the attack surface and like more comments people are going to have and III don\u0027t have a good suggestion of trimming it down like you know nobody like she said maybe it is this is something you can discuss like with something and probably like then that\u0027s Bret\u0027s out the expertise that somebody requires but that\u0027s also a negative thing if you split it out the other person has to still read the Nanyang part anyway to understand the yang part right so I\u0027m pretty neutral on this so if you want to keep this together or not but IIIi personally don\u0027t see any major issues in the document other than it not getting review that\u0027s like what worries me I will try to get another review outside the working group like then when it hits me I will try to get a review on this but I\u0027ll send a eval because I do have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:38",
    "text": "like I did have questions and everything I\u0027ll put it in but yeah I try to get some reviews in the working group so maybe I\u0027m thinking this is law to the policy like you know maybe dine guys might be good reviews right I think unfortunately on he\u0027s not there but maybe somebody from some folks from dying what do you think like it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a pretty quiet working group again I like it it\u0027s really like you know it\u0027s not like useful but maybe I can push like a yang doctor review or something at least for that part right that\u0027s something we can probably try to shoot for so that that part gets done but even the yang doctor has to read the rest of the document so it\u0027s not that they just check the yang model right because they need to understand but in general I think this document went through law I think it\u0027s just that like we seen this this is like a common design pattern like you know we saw l2s em right there\u0027s a document people are just tired of the whole working group was tired and they just managed to just get this past the finish line and died right that kind of level of thing which was like in 150 something plus page document right so I just I want the wasn\u0027t keep going but like I want like people to review it out of this policy Thank You charlie I\u0027m charlie and I really really think we ought to split the document and I think the reality would be that the the Nanyang part would get done before the yang part is done and so people we would get the solid architectural and information novel done that could then be shown how the information model is applicable to PMF and 3gpp architectures just the fact that the information model encompasses both of those shows the power of it and also the well first I said I mean somebody might only be interested in the Pima model for the yank stuff or only be interested in the 3gpp part but anytime I\u0027m if somebody asked me to review a hundred fifty page document something is high to me saying no and I\u0027m not going to do that but so that\u0027s it already and that maybe that\u0027s just me but I think a lot of people feel that way okay Sally stay here so which of these two do you think should be canonical so let\u0027s see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:41",
    "text": "if you progress one thing and we start playing with the other thing right and it kind of gets out of sync I think clearly the yang stuff would have to be considered to be subordinate to the main part of the document like that\u0027s kind of the issue right like so Suresh again so somebody could easily consider it the other way saying the yang is more precise so it should be the final definition that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying that\u0027s something to be considered too like I\u0027m not taking a position one way or another but that\u0027s something that wouldn\u0027t give me set aside working group that they would have the yang stuff before they decided with no like usually it\u0027s together right like and and if it becomes big then it becomes difficult like you say right but if you split it up and then they get be synced somehow I don\u0027t see what they would lose synchronization because he\u0027s a nobody when nobody would work on the young mother unless they cared about the information model in the first place okay maybe I think let\u0027s set get some feedback from benoit\u0027s well you know been more might have some long yeah alright thank you I think we\u0027ll discuss daughters and our deputy and we\u0027ll move forward on that next one is essentially shouldn\u0027t say kiss on yeah that\u0027s fine yeah yeah this is a use of plane protocol and architectural analysis anybody I emissions Coahoma entity I repose a plate of user praying protocol architecture on Isis on CCPP I which is system so on thank you very much for library discussion from email list we think the contents improved by discussion okay so firstly I will explain the background of this book so this work is related to user plane protocol study in CT PP 64 and this is became reasonably part of the eternal apply from diem am working loop to CPP 64 and this document has mainly too much patience first is a unifying understanding level of IDF to specifications and an architecture of CCP 5g system and secondary is a showing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:41",
    "text": "to be showing it to CPP that IDF has enough level about enough enough knowledge about 5g specifications and our proposal have enough value to be considered and in this book we unearth the gtp specification and architectural requirement of 5g user brain and also we extracted some Asian aspects from user pain architectural requirements so this is history of this document we presented to walk this walk in both see TPP and IDF in the last dry and we updated this document twice since last idea meeting major major updates are listed in the following two slides so in the first division we modified mainly modified GPU observation based on the feedback from CCP PCT for LS out so for example gtp you is basically a point-to-point tunneling protocol but some implementation will be have as much point-to-point protocol tunneling protocol well there are no definition about the order of extension header but the specification document describes a note to recommend putting qfi information at the first extension header and we describe the note in the document in the second division we leave little bit feedback on the discussion on email list a mailing list so for example we received a question about termination point of gtp you so we describe a concrete description about the termination point of gtp you did Bill is used on industry interface between Gino to PDF and 90s between different ups so we have this Drive has adapted this update are provided at second division so version number should be zero - please note that and in the second division so we provided supplementary explanation for example regarding - IP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:45",
    "text": "connectivity we describe that in terms of wide coverage ipv6 would be better and we should consider how to interconnect with legacy 5g system are all to distribute ups and select the destination UF flexibly so it may may be able to achieve optimizing loading like a keylock protocols so but the specific specific processes are not defined so either look maybe proposal to the usage as a tuition we received point that there are no summary about the texturizing architecture and we added the overview of network stressing architecture is EPP EPP rice is composed of fundamentally composed of SMF rounds ups and the DNS but CBP focuses on just only mobility management also transport network or other external network otoscope CTP PD study so finally I talk about status and in states so we caught up feedback from both IDF and CCP and these we bleep that we received enough feedback and we would like to request working group adoption of this document and it\u0027s just question I would like to confirm whether this document can be information RFC if so we can polish this document at this contents more right Thank You shin citizen that was a good update so I think before we open up for the questions I think yeah yeah so the one like I\u0027m finding it like you know adopting this if needed but I just don\u0027t have a visibility into what\u0027s happening in 3gpp regarding this so I kind of want some kind of official communication so if status on is there or if you are there probably like you know get another LS out from there and probably get it down the dependency list because if 3gpp is going to make a decision based on this I want to see it on the dependency list the official definitely list that comes out from the Evoque items in 3gpp okay so I can talk to you - we can talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:48",
    "text": "to Gonzalo and and girl to make sure so we can see because it\u0027s not on there right now so like we can do it make sure that like you know GPB knows it and we know it and you wanna see something so was there any discussion it\u0027s steady paper or any contribution will be on based on this as far as creation of study item study document is proceeded in a proceeded in CCPP City for so it refers this I just want to just get my um the 3gpp years and you adding this to the study will not help you for dependencies because the dependencies are only for normative specifications and so I mean it it doesn\u0027t put any pressure from sweetie psi to ITF to progress this work as long practically as long city for hasn\u0027t taken a decision which way to go so on the other hand of course I have to be careful how to phrase it but I think there are some there are some people in City for that sometimes doubtful how far the work in ITF in general has progressed so everything that gets working group adopted and sort of gets gets the indication that you\u0027re working on that and you\u0027re progressing that makes the decisions in City for of course easier because there\u0027s either is real people behind it and it\u0027s also interest from behind it so from that perspective not from the dependencies but from the signal that you are sending towards 3gpp it might be a good idea to to adopt such I think thanks I think that helps a couple of things I think from my point of view think the document is a very well written I think it\u0027s a good work actually I think it can be good informational spec I don\u0027t think it can in my it should not be a standard spider but that\u0027s discussed but so if I understand okay so now I have a better view after like Garrick spoke right so then I have a different issue right so if the only use for this document is to guide the study item what is the archival value of this document in the RFC series right because once the 3gpp study item is done then 3gpp just moves on right so who\u0027s document use fallar in India ATF so that is like the second question we can we can do this all during the mailing list discussion right but that would be my question so if it doesn\u0027t have value by itself to guide 3gpp and 3gpp is not waiting on it and they\u0027re doing their own evaluation then I don\u0027t see the value in publishing this I really see the value of this document but not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:49",
    "text": "publishing in Taurasi so keep the document up data like we can even are out to test a button right and keep it going but then after the decision is made we just drop it right that\u0027s kind of just setting the expectations right up front okay so I think selicia think if you look at ipv6 recommendations for 3gpp back I understand but there\u0027s a difference okay so the documents she is talking about is I think 33 RFC 33:14 okay 3gpp asked us okay what is the prefix length you want to recommend clear question we give them an answer at 64 this one 3gpp didn\u0027t come and ask us hey can you recommend as a protocol if they did that would be a different reference like Garak said okay so 3gpp is doing an independent evaluation they\u0027re not asking us to do an evaluation so do you understand the difference no I think but I think if you look at the analysis finally you\u0027re not recommending one specific thing it\u0027s say that analysis is what the value is it\u0027s not about a specific protocol recommendation right I understand but 3pp is making the decision in the study item right so I\u0027m not I\u0027m something this is very very valuable I don\u0027t have a question in that but if the decision is going to be made in a 3gpp study item it respect your what we write here right then I don\u0027t see the value that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to say I I don\u0027t know if like what the dynamic is going to be going forward but if 3gpp is not expecting us to give them like an analysis of like what\u0027s good or what\u0027s wrong and things like that then I don\u0027t see the value so I think if you go back to the LS statements that we have received from 3gpp so far they all talked about their work item that\u0027s the study that\u0027s happening there in general they reckon courage etf to make progress on on these work items so based on that I think we need to make a call whether this kind of work has value or the should I eat is it just a publishing and that\u0027s what you can decide like I\u0027m not gonna stop the wooden boy from deciding but I do see like a hard time testifying a publication of an RFC for this especially since it has no archival value so like one of the things if you look at like let\u0027s say the last six tele chats right there\u0027s a lot of documents that have been sent back to working groups because they don\u0027t have archival value now that it doesn\u0027t have value so one of them running an sctp document right which contains probably like five years of work of like things like clarifications and errors that have been discovered that got sent back to TS vwg recently because people didn\u0027t see the archival value of it so like who so who will read this document in five years that\u0027s the thinking right period I\u0027m not gonna say anything more so I\u0027m not gonna like you know like you know push something through the working group here what we can decide but that\u0027s what I\u0027m giving you how this is valued later I think let\u0027s yeah certificate on I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:54",
    "text": "gonna put up the city philosophy and I think the the document really berry welcome for us and because he we already have input from an IETF side so the the all of the idea of the use of all so that\u0027s that\u0027s a be sure the wizard the IDF is aware of the CPP act so that the sukima show the good ribbit-ribbit understands that good but after that I think would be valuable if the this document could be good difference to introduce what\u0027s the CD PP 5g architecturally ik and also that much deeper ability T P you so that would be the body that\u0027s my that\u0027s the only concern I have is this paper I think you you cannot assume that 3gpp will reference it and you you cannot assume that we will review it right so any content will be your content it will not imply any changes in our architecture it it might be used as a guidance that is fine but I agree in that sense we suresh that the guidance will mostly come from the study we are currently doing in CT for again the CT for study is not the whole business once if CT for agrees on something that doesn\u0027t mean we will adopt it there needs to be other working groups included in this discussion and so on but it you have a good chance then so if this document is valuable for your own purposes then I think you should go forward with it and you should show that by some way of adoption or whatever I\u0027m not so familiar in detail with with the processes but please don\u0027t assume that from suite EBP side we will reference back to that or will review it so maybe let me ask a question here would you object to publishing no no I first let\u0027s say would would anybody raise an eyebrow let\u0027s say it right we will not and I I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think so I mean it\u0027s practically you doing here what we are doing in our study so yeah fine go ahead and you you need to notice if it if it in the end should be an RFC that\u0027s well that\u0027s you have set aside right but this is this is nothing we we have nothing against you doing work especially if it\u0027s really related is not gonna say no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:56",
    "text": "to anything we can do like something which says like should people live on Mars and publish a graph and 3gpp owns anything so that\u0027s not a good question no but it\u0027s not three okay so like I\u0027m gonna like talk something to Satoru son okay so imagine I\u0027m giving you like a completely crazy alternative scenario okay so working group works on this adopts the document finishes at the dock man she doesn\u0027t work in a class call everybody\u0027s happy with it okay and then we take the texture of this document put it in a layer since statements n83 gbb okay that\u0027s option a other thing is we go through the RSC publication process seven months later we have an RFC do you see a difference in value between these two that\u0027s what that\u0027s my question okay I don\u0027t know the answer is but I want you to think of that question in mind because that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to drive it I think with that logic I think you know I\u0027m not saying you know whether this should be published or not I think you know I think there\u0027s a separate discussion I think but I do want you know you know if you don\u0027t publish work I think in that sense you know any document does value is going to use it make sure so Dave Allen Eriksen I\u0027m confused here all of the discussions leading up to the liaison was they asked us for specific protocols we were working on it was agreed that we were not going to send them analysis we have a draft whose purpose is to attempt to say we understand this well enough that the analysis we provide is credible we liaised it to them my understanding and based on some of the dialogue I saw was the A\u0027s back saying we didn\u0027t want analysis but we are persisting so no I think clarification right I think what we said in the past was we are not going to recommend one specific protocol and say that you know this is provide the technical feedback I\u0027m kind of encountering this everywhere where somebody liaises asking a very specific question which typically is like what can we consume in the time frame of we 16 or whatever and everybody\u0027s sending them the moon in response and this Tomita seems to be another example of it I remember reading quite specifically they asked that ct4 liaised here what we sent them back I do not believe begley correspond to it and they called us on it and working we\u0027re persisting on going down this path I don\u0027t think this is a good idea okay thank you final coming yeah yeah I\u0027m I\u0027m a bit it\u0027s it\u0027s a bit strange you you\u0027re mixing these two types of works so strongly up in your argumentation I mean we have to CT for work and that\u0027s rolling and I I mean the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:56",
    "text": "only way you can interfere with that is that you make your you\u0027re technically drafts that are under evaluation they\u0027re more stable that I guess that\u0027s the unambitious that we might have liaison exchanges on on certain dedicated issues that that\u0027s one thing but this is your your work this is your own working group evaluation and so on why shouldn\u0027t you go on with that I I but what I don\u0027t understand is what\u0027s the relation of this to 3gpp that\u0027s all the time mentioned here like like it like impact to sweetie for I don\u0027t see that I see that this is very valuable work on standalone what you\u0027re doing I think we need to close down yeah I think finally this very quickly at the very beginning that purpose of the draft was explicitly stated in the context of the relation to 3gpp it was not a DMM work item so if it\u0027s gonna be useful for DMM and it\u0027s the ending context of the IETF they need to change the purpose their advertising she goes right now it makes no sense okay thank you final final comment yeah I believe the motivation with this work it come from the situation in the IETF so we have a lot of the very interesting comment whether someone said oh I couldn\u0027t leave the award document I just see the text we need to take I do have a Microsoft rise that\u0027s why we need to yep that describe the words that the CVP system requests in the IDF - okay thank you pink Thank You shizuka-san I think we\u0027ll so how many just I think yeah she we are not going to issue that option called distension sukhasana okay next Marco this is a new draft that more collaboration number two published and update on that draft this is a new trough as rien onst and it\u0027s actually complimenting the discussion we had so far on the data playing in product caused by applying the protocols on the table to apply to the n6 interface which is a little bit under specified in 3gpp maybe for good reasons so you can please [Music] it\u0027s not perfect alright so background and motivation so far we discussed the new data plan progress in the context of the liaison and cd4 and the candidates are other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:56",
    "text": "tunneling protocols I do like separation protocol it\u0027s locator rewrite protocols so these Broncos supply to the interface that\u0027s what the study is about so everything in between the anchor use a big function and the extra data network services do we need to repeat all right so that that\u0027s what the draft is about so in the view of future use of 5g network and in the view of efficient support for industry where it goes we see that there may be some demand for more flexible deployment options for customization and also taking some control on traffic steering and polishing on that n6 interface so what this draft is about it enables decoupling of the Anchor ups from the actual data networks for more flexible deployment and enable the control and enforcement of traffic steering policies on the NSX interface in particular on transport network nodes which are associated with the data networks and that\u0027s not being discussed in 3gpp so can we adjust this one so to previous cases just to motivate this so this is a deployment per today\u0027s 3gpp directions and mobile applications may be associated and take services from distributed applications in distributed data centers so 3gpp 5g control plane allow us setting up multiple user plane function anchors like you see here to talk to the different data networks so these UPF scan enforced traffic steering rules for uplink traffic to achieve that this traffic reaches the data networks at on the right way but there is no guarantee that downlink traffic happens in the same way so there may be kind of misleading route taking the wrong UPF in case the two n6 paths are on the shared links so we need some control on the downlink routes inside the data networks here to actually select the most suitable UPF photonic traffic that\u0027s one case another one is a little bit more dynamic in the view of flying we just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:02",
    "text": "just as one example one case where we apply user plain function serving as a PD accession anchor to the very edge of the network and just to support services in the edge cloud here is the connected car scenario so in addition services running in the central cloud use this video session anchor on a long distance and six interface so in case the car the user equipment in that case moves then maybe your relocation offer user plane anchor maybe also aligned with the relic ation of the actual service just to keep the low latency kind of agreed service levels and in that case in case I P address continuity and previous session continuity is required we need to align the downlink routes in the different data men anchors data networks which use this use a plane function in terms of the unyk traffic guarding so we move actually the IP address being used by the device from a routable to non erodible address and here segment routing I do lot protocols can be applied throughout the traffic to the new anchor so that\u0027s the second use case the scope of this draft is that we first want to motivate this work by use cases discussing the operation then second propose an architecture that basically closes the gap between the policy enforcement points associated with the data networks and provide an architecture a function of 3gpp as a binding element between this actually out of scope data network item and the 5g control plane because these darling routes not only raw as per also Q s whatever you need in terms of bounding traffic treatment policies need to be aligned with a five system so we need a binding element here so the draft is about the architecture how to bind the 5g control plane with a control of the downlink policies second is how to enforce these policies in the transport network of the Dana networks so FPC maybe one candidate here either discussion or specification or information level or on the data data models the third thing is to see if 3gpp can expose on its control plane the required attributes and semantics to allow us and forcing the policies we need so this is something which is treated orthogonal to or 3gpp does if we came out with some attributes or some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "control elements that are required from the 5g control plane we may end up in a proposal to 3gpp to extend whatever can be exposed from their interfaces and that helps us to do that kind of polishing of traffic so the semantics and the data models for VPN traffic treatment policies on n6 that should be in scope of this draft the current draft is a little bit focused on describing the problem the scope there is not too much on solution we have some architecture being proposed in sections but more work is required here so the summary we could discuss this draft before posting with a couple of people got valuable feedback like so n6 aspects are on the specified in 3gpp so it\u0027s treated as valuable work we should clarify the works on n6 and now interference with what 3gpp does is intended here if we come up with a few extensions in terms of attributes or semantics that is required we can make a contribution to http here there was a comment to include the isometric route case referring to as this text slide number three so that should be in the draft and highlighted a little bit then there was a question if we should be specific to the n6 protocol whether it should be segment routing ila whatever kind of channeling approach so here we should be generic in my opinion and just treat this as a policy being enforced and under control of the control band which protocol is being used there was a good point about that some data networks will apply load balancers so this is not seen on this line and six between the user plain function serving as a PTO second anchor and the actual server in the data network so there are some considerations to consider but I\u0027m pretty sure we can easily handle that and also yeah one comment was actually supporting effect to decouple the anchor UPF deployment from the actual terror networks so more comments are of course valuable but in particular we are interested in if this is considered as useful work complementing what 3gpp does and we are future deployment of 5g and if you think it\u0027s useful work we would like to get more input to update the draft with details okay Thank You Marco so 3gb currently doesn\u0027t recognize anything on the n6 right on the on the GI so you think that\u0027s going to change anytime soon well ITF can contribute that part "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:02",
    "text": "here but in strong collaboration with 3gpp okay questions comments what do you expect the function to be deployed in any six because here nowadays at 5g architecture that hub the UPF function like a Porsche enforcement and charging certain set of the function as defined already in UTS so the I don\u0027t much Korea about the what functionality deployed in the m6 in the 5g architecture can you clarify that so based on the use cases primarily we see the need to apply traffic steering policies the control on steering traffic to probably relegate at UPS anchor there may be more so if we decouple the UPF anchor from the data network and move it to the very edge so n6 becomes very long so we may have to apply more policies to that traffic like MPLS labels or AK us kind of treatment so these policies also need to be enforced for downing traffic on the data network CP n DB n is a heavy-ass which can be a provider at router so we should not be specific here which kind of data plane oak we assumed here but you should be programmable and the policies come from the control plane so there may be some basic policies which we derive from the use cases in the document and for that we are specific but we should be open same as busy traffic okay that seems there\u0027s some sort of the option even that CVP provides an interface to get the earth the policy from an application function to control the user plane but your pops on probably not to use that functionality that policy deploying in six parts is a correct understanding okay can you just repeat I didn\u0027t at the last point so one in the 5g architecture the fabric on fabric core provides the interface to allow the application to touch the airport she effect effect to the contour to the user presses the 5g control plane but that couples come from the optic a application function but your proposal it looks a abdication function does contour directory or the user friend so we just show this here using the AF which is in the 3gpp specs and most generic function but the interface between AF and 5g core is being specified on 3gpp so we see AF as one binding element between the 5g core and the data plane policy control "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:04",
    "text": "the AF may be associated with any other controller like for example the MFA controller and serese-- draft or something else right so I\u0027m not sure we should be specific here but actually consider the two interfaces and work out the details here okay thank you John from Huawei I\u0027ve talked to mark about this quite a bit offline and I just wanted to add that in 3gpp most of the time the UPF and the AF and so on are quite tightly coupled in some sense and the architecture that Mark was exploring here is a little bit loose Lee couple where there are really two domains and then you have to have some way to exchange the policies and make sure that these two domains I mean each of these two domains are rich in their own interaction they each do traffic steering and so on but to make sure that the traffic steering that is done for example by 3gpp does not contradict what is done perhaps by the application domain yes so like so part of this has like effect towards si and passive this towards CT is that the goal like because I I do see both the kind of things in the draft right like because you\u0027re trying to change some architectural stuff - and I let like you know York talked if he wants right but I do want at least like a clear separation of like things like a bigger things you want to change and like more like the bits you want to do because like the initial promise was like this is not like clearly defined right so that\u0027s a different thing because we are pretty much used quite a bit right like we did like twenty nine to seventy five like she and I whether to say okay for a stage three spec that for something like you know VK we we are kind of used to that mode of things changing the architecture itself we don\u0027t like have very good track record in that right so I would be happier if like these two things are kind of split up like what you want to change in architecture versus like it the protocol bit you want to change maybe some more brain cycles need to go into here but so I could say that interface between a F and a data plane and the data network that\u0027s not covered in 3gpp what\u0027s covered is AF to PCF SMF kind of reference point so that\u0027s something we want to leverage not change maybe extent is required in terms of UPF I don\u0027t think we break what switch because it does but it\u0027s definitely assuming a different kind of deployment so if you deploy it in a different way I\u0027m not sure if it conflicts with the 3gpp specification of today but if we achieve a goal maybe that\u0027s something that can be discussed also yeah yeah and several things on that well first of all you have to decide whether you want to have to censor each EVP or not or but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:04",
    "text": "that\u0027s one one path to go but that you say well this is something we do and our goal is to have it in 3gpp in the end like so HBP would reference it as something to be done or if you say well we do this and if it\u0027s not appearing in a 3gpp specification it\u0027s still a solution via offering rights would be standalone if you want to have it in 3gpp you need your agents in 3gpp now that practically say we require this so you need to start from stage one actually somebody must has to say there\u0027s a technical order as a requirement to have these functionalities then this trickles down to the architecture group that will maybe look at your what you\u0027re proposing in this paper but practically they will let us do their study on their own and only then the proper call groups get involved so what we have so far is the discussion on the n9 interface there is a replacement of an existing protocol that is fine they\u0027re there you can go directly to the protocol group and say look at the pros and cons and so on but what you\u0027re doing now is something completely new and if we want to if you want that then you really have to go strictly by the process that we have we don\u0027t take technical solutions for the beauty we need really people who come and say and put pressure on us and say there\u0027s a requirement so you need companies in 3gpp that pushed it so you\u0027re saying you just come all the way from they say one then they say to intend to trickle down to city for yes so you need you need to have a high level requirement from a users or network providers perspective that you can formulate without your your language of interfaces and so on where you practically just say that there is a requirement or there are several requirements and those will be discussed in essay 1 and that might take a time they have their own style of working and only then it goes down to the two through the architecture group so I think if you want that you have to do sort of the same here you should get clear on the requirements you should really think of what do we want and then before you start working on the very technical details and describing everything you should wait on what\u0027s the outcome of the 3gpp process as well because that is the way you can work best hand-in-hand that\u0027s just a proposal I\u0027m not saying you have to do that but it would sort of look natural to me I think there was a good comment but I also think how much impact we have to 3gpp procedure depends on the use case it\u0027s at the very first use case may be something that\u0027s entirely complementary just to achieve down in routing and to achieve the best route second use case was a bit more impact with 3gpp and here understand we should first approach sa one with use cases and maybe do key issues kind of description and then make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:04",
    "text": "a proposal towards Shu NCT so what what I said was just really like if you want to go down to 3gpp root if you say this is something that can work standalone and you don\u0027t have switch with the impact that\u0027s fine I just wanted to make sure how it you know make sense thanks for the trabecular yeah so I think yeah let\u0027s continue discussing this document and you\u0027ll see how to proceed Thank You Marco next is ciarán from the stop yeah haiji backhaul Network VPN I believe it\u0027s a new document it\u0027s the first time presentation yeah my name is Ken I did not write this document I\u0027m representing my colleague kuma and he presented it in ITF 102 he presented this document in a rush last time at 102 and since then what\u0027s the motivation behind it so we talked a lot about user plane and control plane here what we are focusing on the mobile UPF mobility that comes in 5g network and the impact or the contribution of transport network in it so what we are trying to solve here is we have different slice and service types they are going to use different kind of SLA guarantees and how are we going to provide that from the transport network perspective so quick rip recap so in order to have those kind of first SSDs and SLA guarantees we are proposing a new reference architecture in which we include a TNF which is transport network function in the 5g architecture this that this function will be responsible for distributing the te path specific information to UPF and G note piece and we can use the clear mapping functions to integrate video sessions with different te paths so what will happen is something like if you have three different type of SSDs they will be mapped to three PPR IDs on each a node P so this way you can get the SLA guarantees for each kind each type of service and slice type so and we don\u0027t make any changes in the user plain if it is gtp based or whatever based that user plain remains intact we are only providing an underlay solution and so in in terms of a survey "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:04",
    "text": "6 we are not focusing it\u0027s completely orthogonal in our case we don\u0027t try to replace gtp layer at all and what PPR is that information is already being discussed in LSR what we do is we provide we compute the TE path at the controller level and distribute the PPR ID to the router nodes in the network and it has resource pacific information so if you want to provide SL s that information is distributed and corresponding resource reservation is made on the nodes and in comparison to SR what we do is we reduce the overhead on the transport and all that de characteristics are included and we have described the table for this in the draft in addition this I already mentioned that for each type of SST we will have PPR IDs and what we have done in the document is we have described all the three mobility modes SSE mode one two three and describe how PPR ID could be used there and these are the changes since last time what we have done is explained more clearly how QoS is used and how it will be carried over the N 3 and 9 interfaces and there was lack of clarity on the bearers information that has been modified and the clear definition of transport network function was missing we added that now and made some minor connections and I think we have moved some of the information from the main draft into the appendix section so these are the next steps we just want to get the feedback from the group if this kind of work should be brought in want to have more discussions on the mailing list as well thank you any cushions comments John from Huawei I don\u0027t have a comment about this per se but there\u0027s some work in actn which is also also somewhat similar to this in the sense that I mean not similar but complementarity yes so we are actually thinking about this how a city and n tnf function will kind of integrate or work together so there are here it\u0027s TNF and there I think it\u0027s about money they\u0027re roughly this but techniques are different but techniques a different I think we\u0027re running out of them and ok I think we\u0027ll discuss more this one what you mean yeah okay I think there\u0027s a new proposal I don\u0027t believe there\u0027s a draft on this but authors wanted to quickly you know get some feedback on what they\u0027re thinking okay yeah fine it\u0027s like you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:11",
    "text": "know talk about the time since you network applicability for fine G Pierson as a topic it\u0027s it\u0027s not something new if you see on the wireline side it\u0027s very mature but with ultra-low latency kind of an applications coming in and there is a heavy dependency on the wireless so that\u0027s where the TNS applicability to Phi G is scanning lot of fraction so even if you see the recent I threw brilliant ITU summary like you know we kind of thought accepted that you know a lot of work to be done so they\u0027re already drafts like I Triple E 8 not 2.1 TSN where where it talks of rate not to 0.1 cm mainly explains about the fact all standards like how we can leverage TSN on an Ethernet kind of a it\u0027s a net media to kind of make it more deterministic in terms of leveraged for friend hall but but as part of my presentation I\u0027m trying to highlight some of the aspects beyond Frank like what are the topics we can look at for the future consideration in terms of for proposing a draft so with that without spending much time here this is something you see on the 5 g sy ultra-low latency application category is gaining a lot of traction that\u0027s this the important bucket from operators point of view which kind of opens up the b2b opportunities so on the speck like you know 22 to 61 it kind of calls all V alpha low latency the parameters the stats what we are talking about is like you know in milliseconds we are talking about like you know the network the network should be able to provide a millisecond deterministic latency that\u0027s that\u0027s the ass coming in from the the 3gpp specs so if you see to be the the challenge is what we have is like most of the deployments are it\u0027ll at least and and it\u0027s and it\u0027s extremely impossible to get that kind of a latency what the ultra-low latency applications are looking for so the idea here is like you know the maybe just summarize you know guys the idea here is like you know so like I said on the 5g point of view from pts and you know this already a lot of work going on in 2.1 cm in terms of how we can leverage the TSN protocol stack you know on Ethernet media to kind of achieve the deterministic latency which is kind of a prerequisite for a unique and different applications so the point what I want to highlight is you know this lot of verb you know things we have to look at from the end-to-end network slicing point of view if you see the slicing of we are talking about an end-to-end slices it\u0027s not about the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:12",
    "text": "slices on the back hall or a packet over or telco cloud kind of thing it should be an end-to-end so today if you see the work so if you see the the work here like you know this this already like you know in city and kind of a controller recommended as part of the year time since you network II but there is a holistic piece missing like when you talk about the slices it should be an end to end and end to end slices requires an Orchestrator a kind of a centralized Orchestrator which kind of integrates with the TSN controllers so that is where you know I feel this lot of work required in terms of defining the standards how we can integrate multiple domain controllers that includes the TSN as well as the deterministic networking this lot of good work going on on the that knit idea for working group like you know how all these things can come together and make it in their outcome in terms of you know achieving an end-to-end slices and able to orchestrate the whole thing so I think I mean it to any final thoughts just so yeah any comics guys you know you know my ask is like to the team is like if any of you guys interested to work on this you\u0027re welcome so we are in the process of defining the stuff this is more like a problem statements we are working on the solutions and stuff for maybe in the next presentation we\u0027ll come up with a detailed proffer on this problem statements okay yeah thank you cuz I think next time this is the last presentation yeah so my name is Pablo Kumari do from Cisco and very quickly I\u0027m here to present drafts are basics mobility use cases so okay so actually as happy six mobility is progressing we have a six-mile draft of this working group which has some of the motivation behind it we also have the the 3gpp city for study item that is focusing on a nine and then we have some talks going on like the one that RSP percentage before but we realized that we believe that there is a lack of one single document that is documenting their motivation and applicability for us our v6 mobility so what we did in in these draft is we try to look at all the use cases where a sorry six could fit in so we divided this into two big blocks so the first one is it would be serviced by the network simplification use cases and then the new mobility use cases and we started trying to divide what would be the use cases for asar so the first big item "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:13",
    "text": "starting from the top will be the radio curanto so for example can we improve how the front whole interface can we try to do a state of load or a state transfer can we do well that the reaper replace DDP use case that it just simply were placing GDP with it\u0027s a v6 then we have other use cases like antoinette work as slicing since that\u0027s our v6 can cover the overlay and the underlay then sir retaining on the n6 or potentially on the a9 interface and idyllic isolation then if we look at the new mobility use cases we have been looking at some use cases on fixed mobile convergence on a stationary iot devices and we will look at the ultra remote reliable low latency use pages as well okay so i think quick pass sorry how are we doing with the blue sheets blue sheets did everybody sign it okay please yeah thank you yes so there is actually a table of content but is what I just said so the draft is in our very earliest stage we some of the use cases are still not very tender we want to look at the idea of isolation and the n9 interface there has been a lot of discussion on these written mobile enforces the one ultra you see and then we also want to do further study analysis on if services can be used to optimize the end for interphase contain security and the security implications on benefits we would like to do right now since it since this document is very early stage is just to call for participation from people in this group we believe there are many use cases there will be used cases where of course as our v6 will not fit and we want to identify this too and we just welcome anyone to to join this RAF if they want or it just will provide feedback ok Thank You Pablo any quick one question sir I\u0027ve got a number of comments which I can probably post I\u0027ll make it quick I think there\u0027s a minor thing is this drive intended to be a standard stuff I mean standard strike maybe not I mean I don\u0027t know what its marked as but ok we will do it yeah that\u0027s so two broad comments I\u0027m like I\u0027m getting from my CT for guys as well is that in many places in the draft it looks like it\u0027s going to change the come see the 3gpp control plane sometimes it looks like it\u0027s going to be only 2035 or one base but then and other places and say that the path the head end is going to do a lot of things same thing about the state and it says that it can reduce state but if you got a reduce state you gotta change the 3gpp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:15",
    "text": "control plane because that\u0027s what\u0027s holding all the state so there are lots of other detail comments about like hair pinning and other things which I can pose to it so John can you post those comments into the mail so just to reply in short so in essence there will be some of the use cases that might require to change their 3gpp architecture but what we are trying to do here is to identify the use cases we are not trying to propose this as a standard is justify the use cases some of these cases will will PCs have a fresh a v6 home node and then based on it we can evolve on there is our basic values that\u0027s fine I think I guess the only request is to separate those two so that it can be seen what is modifying what at this point is very confusing if you are usage yeah anyway thanks everyone with dart Thank You Pablo we closed the meeting [Music] "
  }
]