[
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:50",
    "text": "okay we got one it\u0027s a switch actually okay it would seem that these other one oh there we go I figured out there\u0027s like a little power that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s power okay test test test is Tony awake testing okay so I need a jabber scribe still are you gonna do you\u0027re gonna bawl tear the jabber thank you I thank you very appreciated so this is the second twerking group IGF 100 Singapore please note well flew papers gone around anybody not signed the blue paper I think it\u0027s all over the place there we are anybody else not signed the blue paper okay oh so first item on our agenda is business the agenda this work any agenda bashing else well okay yeah I I think in the what I\u0027d like to do is we have a number of presentations I want to go through the material and maybe have a little bit of discussion if you have time otherwise it\u0027s push sort of the broader discussion to the end because I think there\u0027s there\u0027s a fair amount of open issues which I was going to change my last item there that it\u0027s management API discussion is really going to be open issues discussion and so the first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:51",
    "text": "person up is Phil which is onset which there we go over to you Phil okay let\u0027s go to the agenda slide the next slide so I basically wrote this presentation based on the draft three update so I\u0027ll give you a little bit of background for the people who haven\u0027t been following all along we\u0027ll look at the current status and where we got to the end of draft three there has been significant discussion about what to do going forward and I\u0027ll push that to the end and depending on time we can have some discussion initially in those deck says we\u0027ll do more later on there\u0027s definitely a lot of discussion there next slide so security events started about two years ago we were looking at an observing in Tokyo that we were all writing drafts for log out for token revocation for skim events for risk events and Justin had another group for I think was healthcare consent called heart we were all using jot and the comment was in Tokyo maybe we can have a common foundation draft that sets out all the security considerations and privacy considerations and the basic form so that we could take current libraries for ja and enhance them to do sets and that would lay a foundation for other specs like heart like risk to specify events that work in their communities that design assumed independent development there is no formal reconciliation mechanism that was how it was started events themselves something to point out that when we\u0027ve at our first meeting some people from the broader IETF community pointed out that there are very different perceptions on events so some people believe an event is something like an antivirus thing where I\u0027ve collected a bunch of data and drew a bunch of historical data and made a conclusion that\u0027s one definition of an event another definition of event is it\u0027s a command that one party sends to another yeah so this group is neither of those things it\u0027s really simply one domain sending a trigger a simple statement from one domain to another that can be interpreted by the receiving party to decide what to do so we\u0027re kind of smack dab in the middle of doing that there\u0027s lots of good reasons for that if you think about major providers don\u0027t necessarily want to talk a lot about how they came to a conclusion nor do they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:51",
    "text": "want to be in the business of telling their competitor what to do so skim kind of defines its event right down the middle so the timeline at the bottom was this work we started writing the drafts in November we were initially looking at an ad sponsored track and then quickly after a joint meeting with the skin working group in Buenos Aires decided to work on a charter for this group and so now we are here today next slide [Music] sorry so this is just listing the examples I just mentioned before skimmers perspective was that you had a RESTful API where a client wants to send changes and pull data from a service provider but what we found was a need for the service provider to be able to send signals or triggers back to those clients so that the client can decide what to do about things if you think about a service provider they have many clients or thousands of clients each introducing changes and the service provider wants to coordinate some of those changes in OAuth we\u0027ve been talking about but haven\u0027t started work on how do you revoke an access token there is an RFC to tell the ASO you want that token revoked but there\u0027s no method right now for the a s to let the audiences know that that token was actually revoked so that\u0027s a back-channel not listed here is the back-channel logout which is simply how to facilitate a logout and a back-channel risk is you have security systems want to share security generated events between parties and then hard as I mentioned is it\u0027s the ability to share consent events in a signed format so we\u0027ll go to the next there anybody representing Hart here okay did I get that right Justin I just said it was ability to share consent events in us it\u0027s a little more sophisticated it just says it\u0027s more or less the same I think we should also school through this so let\u0027s yeah so for draft two there was a working group last call put out we took the feedback from Oh - and we generated a no.3 as history we\u0027ve now had four working group drafts and that was preceded by eight individual draft updates starting from two years ago as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:52",
    "text": "far as the implementation goes and the draft goes up until now it\u0027s been what I would characterize is functionally stable next next slide there were a few editorial changes there were a couple of old terms we had we used to have publish and subscribe as a term and there were a few left over subscribed words left so I fixed that we clarified that an event receiver is in fact the same thing as JWT recipient however for editorial reasons we decided to keep it consistent as transmitter receiver rather than actually switch over to recipients so I made the clarification and the definitions it was also brought up that we were redefining not before for a different purpose and as a general rule we\u0027ve not like that so we decided to remove NBF and define something which is what people really wanted which was time of event this enables things such as if you notice a week later that something happened like a password database was compromised you can issue the event after the effect so the time of the set and its issuance may not in fact correspond to what you believe the actual time of event so if that\u0027s important there\u0027s a registered claim and Ja now - to do that that\u0027s it so this is the part that\u0027s happened since we posted oh three Thank You Annabelle and Annabelle\u0027s thought was what if we just take the events attribute and make it singular William Dennis pointed out that there may be some confusion that we have the word call the claim events meaning there are multiple things inside that JSON attribute but that we\u0027re still conveying one logical event Annabelle would like to simplify it on both levels I think which is to say make it singular so that it is one event and we are actually conveying only one set of information the proposal also was that the extensions would be determined by the profiling spec as to how they want to handle it we\u0027ve had lots of discussion back and forth and we can pick that up later next slide harder little so basically it\u0027s the same except that you now have a vent and you do not have multiple payloads instead you have attributes of the event directly in there\u0027s one specified to be called an event type which is how you indicate what type of event it is and then any of the other things you want in there can be added in so Annabelle had translated the skim example and this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:54",
    "text": "what it would look like with the new format next slide so the argument was one event is simple and that it\u0027s simple because some receivers don\u0027t know how to handle multiple payloads they might get confused over which payload is the actual event or the primary event and so processing multiple events is seen as complex for some so I\u0027ll leave that there and Annabelle can add to that later because we\u0027re not always in sync on what I think she\u0027s after so this was the comment that William made that events does suggest multiple events but if you look at the spec it doesn\u0027t actually permit distinct repeat events because you can\u0027t actually repeat the same event payload you can only specify at once so you couldn\u0027t actually say use asset to convey five separate transactions you could convey five different pieces of information or any pieces of information about the same logical event that works that\u0027s allowed at the moment next slide so the oath redraft the way it\u0027s written it kind of my feeling was is that the the allowing multiple event URI payloads allows you flexibility with what how you want to handle versioning flexibility as to how you handle extensions in other words an extension payload looks exactly like an event payload they\u0027re processed exactly the same way the downside to that is confusion over which one is the actual event that matters I also was thinking about this saying you could have a utility profile on the example from the risk group is do you define a top level claim like the subjects claim which is has some complex substructure to define things like email users versus oh I open ID connect users versus telephone number users or do you create a profile that would be a utility class that holds those claims you could construct it either way one of the other features that that many people have had from the beginning is the ability to develop specs on the fly which is why we chose event types as expressed as URIs rather than you are ends and a lot of people said ok I might take a skim event or a risk event but I might want to add more data because the partner on sharing events with is really part of my administrative domain and we\u0027re going to share more data I can\u0027t see a reason why not - and that seems reasonable I have example of that later we also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:56",
    "text": "thought that there was a concern that if you\u0027re conveying multiple pieces of information expressed across multiple sets then the expense of checking n signatures is more expensive than just one signature of a larger object so that was one comment put forward that\u0027s basically for that you say previous consensus on this Phil this is what does that mean this was the view as of when o3 was published that since changed so it\u0027s an example I looked at there\u0027s an event from the old skim profile draft where there\u0027s a password reset function and we described an extension to that as a hypothetical extension where you say might also be useful if some providers want to tell their receivers the number of password resets that have occurred and out of counter to that so go to the next slide does the bill so this disorder describes an event where the extension is really doesn\u0027t stand on its own it has to be shipped with the primary event the password reset but if we look at the perspective of another community the risk community they have some overlap and they have an event that covers this but in a broader sense and go the next slide so the risk account credentials require somewhat overlaps in the sense that that change might boil down to a password reset or it might be something else it\u0027s a broader context event one of the differentiators is that risk tends to come from a security calculation whereas the skim event is often triggered in the normal course of business the user asked for an account reset and that\u0027s what happened whereas in risk generally but not always it\u0027s the feeling is some security system perform some calculation and came to the conclusion that an account credentials required so if we go to the next slide the question then is if I send these all together in one set the scenario could describe that the event was triggered by the security system and that security system as part of that same transaction it has caused a scheme system to do a password reset as part of that or an other interpretation is that there\u0027s a count change required because there\u0027s been five resets it depends on the relationship and what the sequence of events but this becomes possible to Express there\u0027s an option ality concern that some systems are risk only some systems "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:56",
    "text": "are skim only and some simply just don\u0027t care about the others we\u0027ve talked that a stream might send both and if that\u0027s possible that\u0027s useful but the concern is if I convey these as three separate events there\u0027s no signaling to tell a receiver that there\u0027s more event more information coming about this same transaction so if I don\u0027t know that it\u0027s coming the only way I could check for that would be to wait a long period of time so next slide so this was just an example of looking at the Jason and it\u0027s one simpler than the other I\u0027ll just go to the slide and point it out for those who are not there so I\u0027m going to leave the box for a moment [Music] okay so on the left in the current proposal we have events and the format is that under events the next object is an event URI attribute and then this JSON object is what we\u0027ve been referring to as the payload the second payload is here which is the skin or the risk event and its payload below that says here\u0027s what\u0027s going on and then this skin Password Reset it\u0027s complete here the extension is skin that says the reset attempts are there so these are processed in JSON parsing terms at the same time so you end up with a hash of three events each with independent objects that are fairly clean in the comparable example as I understand it with the event you would have a single event an event type and you\u0027d have to choose which event you\u0027re going to express and then if you\u0027re going to somehow send the other events they would have to be as extensions so if skim defined this they would have to define what they allow in their extension one thing I wonder about is what is the format of this section does which looks a lot now like that and what is the format over here you have multiple formats that might not be the way skim does it that might not be the way risk does it but the concern I have is there would be no standards for Interop own extension mechanisms maybe that\u0027s good maybe that\u0027s bad next slide so the question is does a single set convey the whole picture does having all three payloads add value versus getting them in two or three sets would you draw different conclusions it\u0027s hard to say and I think this comes about because the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:58",
    "text": "skin working group is working independently from the risk working group which may be also overlapped by another future working group from the payment card Association or some other indriyas industry association so I kind of suggested that we have some flexibility that when things overlap you can convey them together to give the bigger picture of the bigger hole and let the receiver draw the conclusion Phil you just mentioned the skin working group yes mister I don\u0027t think there is a active skin working group so the skin working group is closed at the moment in its charter it has an unresolved issue called event triggers what actually happened was we started working on that and decided to broaden broaden this back and at the skin working group it was agreed to move forward on a sec events working group as a separate working group so at the moment we have not resurrected the skin to complete the skin profile because the work was transferred here so are you saying that the skin profile is part of this working groups Charter it was an input document to this working group okay well I\u0027m you mentioned that the skin working group versus the risk working group is doing two different pieces of work but there isn\u0027t a active skin working groups that\u0027s a confusing statement from my perspective this is the working group because the work was transferred here but I do not know whether we will publish it is unclear yet whether we will resurrect the skin working group to finish the skin profile or whether we finish that under this working group but I would leave that to the directors in the chair okay next slide there go so this was just the author\u0027s recommendations for a number of reasons we felt that you can accomplish a single event if you want to the optionality is there I spoke to Annabelle just before the meeting and the optionality does become a concern though for some transmitters who may not be able to send a combined event receivers can say I just want a risk events and risk events only or skiing events and scheme events only that that\u0027s already there that\u0027s in the spec there\u0027s nothing saying that that that the event can\u0027t contain a single event the issue is does it require a transmitter to combine events if that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:59",
    "text": "what the receiver wants and I think that\u0027s the concern from a process perspective my conclusion looking at it that we would be starting with a new internet draft proposal and starting over if we want to go this way so because of all of that our recommendation is to leave it as is maybe we have some clarification on optionality and that\u0027s it so the next slide is discussion and we can do some of that or do it later well we\u0027re out of time for the slot now so we\u0027ll bring that up later thanks Bill oh sorry go ahead you\u0027re at the mic hi Justin richer as progenitor of the current syntax in the document after having heard Phil\u0027s argument for keeping the current syntax I\u0027m actually leaning towards Annabelle\u0027s proposed new syntax specifically because the idea behind the current syntax was to make it easier for the receiver of the set to be able to as Phil said you know go in I just want this one thing I just want this one aspect of this event that I care about it was never intended to carry multiple events in a single payload it was meant it was meant to carry multiple aspects of a single event in a payload and that\u0027s why it\u0027s expressed as as a hash the way that it is today I think that we want off the rales in terms of extensions and all of this other stuff and sort of primary versus secondary events and all of that complexity is now leading me to believe that we really do we would be well-served to pull that back into something that is more no this really is a single event and agree on common fields such as time of event and things like that in the event payload that would actually describe those events commonly across different systems okay anybody else want to comment now we\u0027ll talk we\u0027ll bring this up again later yeah I\u0027m Tony nedelin we believe that these actually need to be together so they\u0027re risky so we have cases where we have risks risk event followed by skin events in the same thing in the same payload and it right now if we get a password if we get a you know account change or something we will also throw in the skin events into the same payload so it just makes it easier for our engine to determine what\u0027s going on as a whole than to have these single eyes de vents coming across the way and you have no no way to know what the correlation action is between them so are you suggesting that you would force that they would all come together Tony can you go to the mic again I\u0027m not sure I would force but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:05",
    "text": "think if you if you receive them you have to understand so I mean it\u0027s gonna come down to that I mean if if we happen to bundle them all together you would have to understand the bundle together if you send them separately we all have to understand them separately right so okay so if well there may be advantage of them being bundled unless you always bundle them then you\u0027ll have to deal with them being unbundled as well yes just again this is that is exactly the problem that that I\u0027m realizing that the the current data structure has and that\u0027s that if people are making giving semantic weight to multiple aspects being in the same payload and treating that differently than if they had received them separately that I think is problematic that was never in our use cases that was never the intended interpretation and so I did not anticipate that being an interpretation when we when we originally put that forward but if that\u0027s what people are doing I think that\u0027s a bad idea and they should be carried separately there\u0027s there is some Jose overhead of multiple signatures and things like that but I think that the the clarity gained is probably worth it so there is a way to have your cake and eat it you can just make the grouping semantics explicit and create an event group mechanism right I will allow people who want to do simple sort of one-off events to do that and people who want to group them to do that right I actually myself I couldn\u0027t quite follow and I couldn\u0027t quite understand what you\u0027re saying Lea Annabel Backman I believe the suggestion was that a an event type could be defined that is a grouping of events so it\u0027s a single event within that event there is a list of events that are all semantic semantically tied together in okay so essentially you create a a new Luber event it\u0027s a Meta Knight so you have one event that means has three things event bundle exciting them but you\u0027re essentially you\u0027re understanding the meta event and the the point of that is that you make the grouping semantics explicit instead of implicit okay I we\u0027re low on time I\u0027m going to move to the next one yeah go ahead all right good afternoon everyone marisco disco from Google I\u0027m gonna do an update on the delivery spec changes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:05",
    "text": "that happens inside EF 99 and a couple of open questions alright so changes since IETF 99 I point to the current draft the previous one there are very few changes one notable change is that the verification even definition moved to a management API so this is a special event which allows transmitters to just verify that the line or the best delivery is still alive or allows receivers to to request one of these just to make sure that the connection still works now moving on to open questions so one big open question is that we define the spec defines to delivery methods one is ATT HTTP POST define a push delivery method the other one defines the polling delivery method and many transmitters expressed the fact that they want to implement one or the other are not both they are both defined in the same spec it\u0027s not clear to us if IETF encourages allows that or what are the solution in these cases so feedback from the community would be very welcome in this case another thing is these delivery methods all require some attributes I give some examples there so for the push deliver is an endpoint and potentially an authorization header the polling delivery method needs an end point but this end point it\u0027s written is defined by the transmitter and we are looking at formal methods where the Divali methods can define here are the attributes needed for an implementation and then management api\u0027s can define ways how these are set and retrieved donating internal adilyn so question comes back is what did you mean by making calling optional what does that mean what is that actually okay can you go once like that so as a transmitter do I have to implement both push and pulling or I can choose and implement one of them and how do I achieve that that\u0027s what I mean by optional either would be optional I know that\u0027s a requirement that many people express I agree with that but my question is because the feedback we got so far is that IETF doesn\u0027t like specs which has optional components to it maybe that\u0027s acceptable and if that\u0027s acceptable it\u0027s fine if not then we need to find a way to achieve that I think it\u0027s Phil here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:05",
    "text": "I think the optionality might be the wrong sense to think about this is that you it depends on what your network scenario is if you\u0027re trying to get through a firewall that you can\u0027t otherwise get through you don\u0027t really have but there\u0027s no optionality if you\u0027re going to send an event polling is the only thing that\u0027s going to work so it\u0027s more of a you got to use the tool you have to use to get it done and that\u0027s why we have two optional specs so so I think the question a better way to phrase it is is there any value in having one of them mandatory to implement that\u0027s really the better way to phrase it in IETF terms sure Anabelle back men so I think that concern I see there\u0027s if an implementer says I support set delivery over HTTP what does that mean if I\u0027m trying to inter up with them what does that mean to me if both are optional then that on its own doesn\u0027t really tell me anything I need to know okay which within the set delivery over HTTP what did you actually implement did you actually implement polling or did you event push or both so having that kind of variability in the spec itself I think weakens the utility of the speck as a Interop tool did you propose that these we separate specs I didn\u0027t propose anything I just brought yourself as a potential I think the concern is that the client the receiver doesn\u0027t have a choice he\u0027s either A or B they either have an openly accessible API endpoint where they can receive events or they don\u0027t so they don\u0027t have a choice they have a requirement that they\u0027re expressing and then it\u0027s really up to the transmitter to say do I want to be able to send events depending to that receiver given they don\u0027t have a choice maybe maybe somebody Arif eyes for me or this is a framework and so a profile would be staying saying what somebody an implementer needed to do not do that that wouldn\u0027t be in suck event that you\u0027d have to do that would you okay so it could be something that a profile with a profile would decide whether but the profile may also do also say that either of these are are the options are available rather of these will work its fill again to clarify I don\u0027t believe it\u0027s a profile issue because whether it\u0027s risk whether it\u0027s skim or heart it really depends on the network reality that\u0027s out there it doesn\u0027t have anything specifically to do with profile although it may be true that some profile out there doesn\u0027t have any network differences that they have to be concerned about so they could rule one out but in general I think at the SEC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:07",
    "text": "events level it depends on what the client needs and whether you want to support that client Annabel Backman up it\u0027s true that the network\u0027s situation that the receiver has is kind of a limiting factor for them that doesn\u0027t change the fact that having one or both of these is optional in the spec introduces ambiguity for them as far as understanding what\u0027s available to them if you are a receipt who cannot expose endpoints such that polling is a requirement for you then again seeing a transmitter describe themselves as supporting set delivery over HTTP still doesn\u0027t tell you can I interrupt with this person do i or do I need to try to get them to implement polling or do I need to find a third party service I can use as a proxy you still have to go to some other resource to find out what they actually mean when they say they\u0027re implementing that spec yeah no I think we can move past their attributes and here is an example of how attributes would be used for example in an API which allows you to query the state of an existing stream I highlighted in bold for example the delivery method URI a URL parameter which is the endpoint where events are pushed or post to post and an example authorization header just to have a visual example of what these attributes mean and since I mentioned HTTP authorization header for the bush method we keep we proposed several authorization mechanisms but we are proposing a very specific one the main requirement for this one was it comes from preventing denial of service attacks and basically this proposal is to allow receivers to space it specify the full authorized HTTP authorization header and it\u0027s up to the receiver for example it can define basic auth or API key or even an access token is if it\u0027s longer-lived and they can refresh it periodically so what\u0027s the question here as to whether it should be in the spec as they had are at any key yes and if it\u0027s a good idea to have a general configuration like this turning idling are you saying that the authorization headers only used can only be used in the push no I\u0027m just saying that the the proposal is to allow for push for receivers to define put to set "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:08",
    "text": "header has users in many other cases but the proposal is strictly for that delivery method so what were you implying I think what you\u0027re saying Tony is that due respect both push and pull and due respect how we authorize within second or do we leave that to the profiles that\u0027s a question yeah okay really yeah I think if you leave it to the profiles then we really are going down the path where you can only send one event and you\u0027re going to have to have multiple streams working on different protocol capabilities because each profile is defending defining different configuration and we throw away Interop at that level just enricher at that point one has to ask the question of if everything is going in profiles what are we doing here but I\u0027m not saying it should be done other profile vote is right this proposal that is for so you\u0027re making an open question yeah your main question question and this is my response to that question if that is what I keep hearing the refrain of oh that\u0027s Ana profile oh that\u0027s in a profile oh that\u0027s in a profile and it it really makes me wonder what\u0027s left in a security of that so when we first came together to talk about security events a lot of you already know this it was it was fairly simple concept in that you put a bunch of stuff in the envelope that says this is what the you know this is kind of about the sender of the event and where it\u0027s going and whatnot and then there was a payload that was going to have a bunch of common fields to every event but because it\u0027s JSON and therefore schema by Fiat a bunch of other stuff in there too that bunch of other stuff could be profiled we\u0027ve gone a long way from there now and I am really afraid that this mantra of oh we will make a profile that specifies you know how we authorize the push call or something like that how we do time of event how we do subject how we do anything is leaving precious little for the set to actually define because it\u0027s kind of stripping it down and saying it\u0027s just JA and so if you have a bunch of independent working groups that all agree to just use jots why do they care yeah that\u0027s a good question I mean that\u0027s a core part of what I\u0027m going to drive is a conversation later in the interest of time let\u0027s move to your next presentation Marius all right so me again so I\u0027m gonna present an event management API we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:08",
    "text": "going to talk about two management api\u0027s today this one it\u0027s a it\u0027s a simple one breast inspired not necessarily a REST API but it\u0027s a simple API with some all consumer clients in mind so we have a proposal for this one at IDF 99 we presented it it\u0027s an individual draft I will present the API at a glance because we are going to compare it to another proposal and then go to some future work and open questions so I\u0027m pointing to the true drafts the current one a previous one the main changes since IETF 99 we added the steam configuration update operation we split out a stream status operation the verification event definition was moved from the devel respect into this one and then a security consideration sections was added all right so now we\u0027re gonna look at the API I\u0027m gonna probably go quickly through these slides and you let me know if you need to stop anywhere but so get stream cook config this is the request so it\u0027s just a get to an endpoint yeah and then you get back a JSON blob which is describes how that stream is configured and you can see here there is an the audience obviously and then there is a delivery method and these are events supported by that given receiver and then some possible errors interesting one here it\u0027s a 404 that means stream has not been configured for this receiver for example update the stream config this is a post back to the same end point with the JSON blob to update some of those views stream status this is a lightweight API it just gets back a status telling that is the stream enabled post is in fail mode or in what mode that is and it\u0027s meant for monitoring or alert systems okay now so on that set would you use that same pattern to modify other attributes or is that another separate command yes this could have a an update as well to force the status to work well I mean if you want to change another feel like authorization header is that a different operation yes there would be a different work all right so there are two add remove subject to operations to add and remove subjects I\u0027m going to show request response error codes and then another request the idea is for an implicit receiver to be able to manage the list of subjects or the set of subjects they are interested in events there is an example here of adding a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:10",
    "text": "subject based on an email address again the exact way the subjects are identified it\u0027s expected to be done in a profile you know here it and the phone number below it are just pure examples but basically it\u0027s supposed to an endpoint and then some way to identify which subject needs to be added next and then possible errors just wondering for the other profiles is this command even makes sense Justin for heart do you need something to say hey I\u0027m interested in getting information I don\u0027t think it makes sense to know I do you CRO auth because those have implicit flows yeah I don\u0027t think it really makes that much sense either so we a toy around with the idea of a what we were calling the shoebox endpoint so in in most of the heart use cases think of these event token things as being receipts for something happening during a transaction right so I give my doctor access my doctor accesses things those are discrete events things happen and I want some record of those things happening so the subject was implicit in some other flow as opposed to Evan be explicitly May exactly exactly so I don\u0027t think it really made sense for that to be called out in the same way fill behind you thanks Justin yeah on the skin side it is possible we might use this particularly when skin is used in the consumer environment in the enterprise environment you tend to be put into a group and the group defines whether you\u0027re going to whether events are going to be sent for that person on the basis of the group or there\u0027s some filter on an entitlement attribute that says we\u0027re sharing data about you with Salesforce because you\u0027re configured to have a Salesforce CRM account and it\u0027s all set up so we don\u0027t have the need through the control plane to manage it necessarily but I wouldn\u0027t rule out this as a useful thing either oh and so your question as well so for the removes subject maybe move on to the next one one more okay so for the remove there might be a use case even in the oils use case right when the user actually wants to opt out and there is explicitly a receiver note do not send or do not process risk events on my behalf and there might be a use is there where an explicit call IDs might still be necessary it\u0027s not clearance so this is the corresponding remove very similar to add also Annabel Backman also for open ID connect scenarios if the end "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:13",
    "text": "user severs the relationship on the RP side so instead of using the IDP to sign in they\u0027re going to have a local password then the the RP may want to at that point on enroll in events for that subject yeah normally the RP would revoke the token on whatever tokens they have grants they have right which would achieve the same thing but maybe I\u0027m not sure those are semantically equivalent all right the verification event was moved here from the distribution draft so this is an example of how a verification event looks like pretty straightforward there is an event URI and there is an optional state parameter a few date next what does the state parameter represent you\u0027ll see on the next slide so there is a way to for a receiver to request a verification event so they just post to a specific endpoint and they can specify a state parameter which should be echoed back in the event when they receive it so they can correlate it was a good question some future work to allow receivers to specify supported events and to allow transmitters to declare the supported events by them so basically a transmitter can say I support these five events the receiver say I\u0027m interested in these five but only three of them overlap and then the actual on the actual stream potential only those three events what would be flowing this is a privacy feature and allowing receivers to be extremely explicit about what events they want to receive and this is an example it may not have to be this elaborate but basically in a stream configuration you could have a list of events that are requested by the receiver the one supported by the transmitter and at the bottom what actually might flow on that stream we need to future were to maybe to add more clarification of how subjects are defined in profiles and to define maybe some attributes which define a subject schema and so forth we\u0027re going to see some examples in future in a bit later when Annabel is going to present how this is done in risk one need one thing we need to clarify it\u0027s how to distinguish between read-only and readwrite configuration parameters when we get the configuration of a stream using an HTTP GET we get an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:15",
    "text": "a JSON blob some of them are read only some of them are read right when we posed back to the same input to change some there is space for confusion here and it\u0027s not clear how we should deal with that next and also there is the we keep talking about a discovery document it\u0027s not clear if this management API is the right place for a discovery document the current proposed brainstorming is to have something very similar to a discovery document done in open ID connect a very similar well known and here is a JSON blob is describing such potential discovery document for sega dense describes the issuer the endpoints it could describe some other what capabilities for example what delivery methods are supported and we can imagine other attributes there next all right thank you Annabel\u0027s up yes it\u0027s after after you okay so I\u0027m Annabel Backman I\u0027m going to be presenting how we are profiling what Marius just talked about in the risk working group where we\u0027re at with that so we\u0027ve had a lot of talk about this we\u0027ll go to the profile that\u0027ll go to the profile let\u0027s walk through an example of what that might look like so just to get everyone on the same kind of baseline the use cases that risk has for a management API are these five here for what we call in risk implicit relying parties these are parties such as Amazon where we do not directly depend we don\u0027t have an open ID connect relationship with Google but we have a lot of customers who use their Gmail account as their forgot password mechanism so we sort of implicitly depend on the security of that gmail account for our piece like us we need a way to explicitly enroll and say hey we want we need events about this this account because they\u0027ve started using our system similarly I think unenroll events we talked through a little bit about that about the use cases for that just a Mon ago so you heard that those apply to risk as Marius showed there\u0027s a need for receivers to specify what kind of events "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:16",
    "text": "they can receive or they want to receive from a transmitter so we need a mechanism for that we need a mechanism to say how we\u0027re gonna receive these events what endpoints and then we want to have a mechanism to make sure that a particular stream is active and functional there no issues with receiving events over it so one of the things we talked about earlier it was authorization and the need to figure out how to profile that well there\u0027s also the question of how do we authorize the management API so we\u0027ve said in risk is the management API will be use the HTTP authorization header and we\u0027ll use bearer tokens the presumption and the conversations that we\u0027ve had between people involved is he\u0027s probably using client credentials grant these are tokens that are issued really between service to service there\u0027s not a customer or user identity involved here but they are bearer tokens so there\u0027s three main types of subjects that we have talked about in risk marius mentioned the need to be able to define different subject types so this is what we\u0027re looking at in risk right now there\u0027s a subjects that are primarily identified by email address subjects identified by a phone number and then subjects identified through an issuer in subject pair as you would see in an open ID connect relationship we\u0027ve defined a structure here that there\u0027s a consistent way for us to represent these this set of fields collectively identifies a subject and we have a type in there to specify this is the schema for this particular subject so I just want to point out to everybody that you know this is quite different than some of the other profiles that are viewing that they can have a simple string identifying the subject that this is really an object identifying the simply yeah one of the issues we have with the what specified at the jot level and the discussion around sets and the use of the sub claim is our subject don\u0027t just follow that format necessarily so we need to have some more complex way to to identify that and this is just an example of what one of these how we would use that one of these subjects in a set we\u0027ve defined a risk subject claim at the top level of the set and within that we just the value of that is one of these objects "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:16",
    "text": "that we just saw on the other slide so a few examples of these showing the only thing about those sets that changes is is that risk subject content and then here\u0027s what that would look like on an ad this is an ad request a remove request would look very similar the other last thing I want to talk about here is discovery and what we\u0027re looking at at the risk level for that there\u0027s a lot of things that we could think of when we talking about discovery just to be clear and the first thing that might come to mind is the event stream capabilities what types are supported what delivery methods are available we\u0027re not talking about that here next we\u0027re not talking about that here what we\u0027re interested in or these this other point this question of how are we discovering the management API and secondly how are we discovering who to talk to in the first place given an identifier earlier I talked about Amazon wanting to receive events about a gmail account that\u0027s pretty easy because a gmail account is Gmail everybody knows that\u0027s Google who who runs that but there are a whole lot of other email addresses out there and then there\u0027s things like phone numbers where it\u0027s completely unclear given the phone number whose authoritative for that or not so we need mechanisms to identify that for different identifier types next slide yeah so something we\u0027ve discussed is having specific discovery mechanisms for each subject type that we define there are some mechanisms out there already open ID connect gives us you know open ID connect discovery that you know it\u0027s a discovery mechanism off issuer and subject it also talks about doing that discovery off of email address there are some further proposals in that space around other ways to do that discovery mobile the open ID open ID mobile connect group also has some pieces in place for discovering from phone number as well go ahead Kathleen Moriarty area director are you thinking about the privacy concerns and have you looked at our fc-69 73 for some guidance on that do you need help in this space I think privacy concerns are definitely something that the working group has spent a lot of time talking about that\u0027s one of the big concerns is how do we get users the benefit of this information sharing without creeping them out because we don\u0027t do that I\u0027m not familiar with the RFC you specified but if if you have input you want to provide would definitely be be interested to hear it be happy to talk to you about that after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:18",
    "text": "the session since it\u0027s more risk oriented yeah so but I\u0027m happy to help of course just clarify Kathleen this is this is in risk which is no idea this is the risk profile yes this sheet Annabelle\u0027s going through how risk would use this to go and help understand expect that area this is is giving context to all of these things that we\u0027re saying oh profiles will do it profiles will do it well what does that actually mean what does that actually look like this is an example of that nevertheless I\u0027d be happy to I\u0027d love to talk to you after words if there\u0027s if there\u0027s information or guidance at a ETF has learned about at this area that maybe we could take and use over there that\u0027d be great to hear yeah so the use of identifier z\u0027 in particular is a really tough one right because you can identify people and you can trace it to activities and that could be quite revealing and it could be harmful right right one of the one of them anyways one of the challenges we have in risk is how do we communicate enough information that we have a meaningful signal while not over communicating and that\u0027s something we\u0027ve had to be very very cautious of and how we define events and what what gets put in those events and what those events get packaged alongside so I recommend looking the HR PC draft that is in the IES or the RFC editor queue as well to learn about you know what they have what they\u0027re recommending for protecting anonymity for human right you know if you live in the wrong country right right and you can get traced back to doing some simple things that we take for granted it could mean your life right so so identify as tied to people something that we\u0027ve been very sensitive to in is G last call reviews right right one of the other things we\u0027ve discussed I didn\u0027t show it here except the use case isn\u0027t that strong was communicating via hashes of identifiers rather than the identifiers itself that be particularly valuable in scenarios where the two parties maybe there\u0027s less clarity over whether or not this user is already using that identifier with that second with that other party so using communicating using hashes will give you that sort of capability thank you I it\u0027s Phil I was going to say that as well and I think in a lot of the other cases where they\u0027re sharing the identifiers it\u0027s usually done on the basis that it was already shared previously in the case of open ID connect through the ID token so risk may be sharing PII but it\u0027s data that\u0027s previously been shared so it\u0027s not exposing new information and but we actually I think in most cases are trying to figure out still can we actually share less information than was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:19",
    "text": "originally disclosed because the security system might not have been part of that original Federation thank you good next yeah if there\u0027s any questions about this again this very open ID risk specific so happy to talk to people outside of the second vents context as well if you want to hear more about that this is Justin just a quick syntactic question because this is a profile why are you mucking around up in the root of the job instead of putting the risk subject down inside the event object itself is there a reason for that why does it need to be in the events or in the event body because it\u0027s part of the event so is sub which is why we shouldn\u0027t be using that sub up there I\u0027ve made that point the whole time I think that\u0027s a dumb idea too so the the the sub that\u0027s in the root is the subject you know from the view of the issuer of the event not necessarily of the event itself which is why any subject to the event should be in the event object yeah generally within risk you know that\u0027s the same thing the the subject from the perspective of the transmitter and receiver they\u0027re identified the same way otherwise you don\u0027t have a functional system so that\u0027s the way we\u0027ve approached it but if that\u0027s you know contrary to what is being mandated at by the set spec then there isn\u0027t really a problem for risk to move that down into the event body itself okay right now the set spec does not make that clear though okay that is something that I would encourage the editors of the set spec to clarify then if that is in fact the direction the working group yeah I believe there\u0027s nothing in the set draft currently that says that events or profiles should not add content to the root level of the job which seems to be what you\u0027re suggesting right yeah just for data cleanliness if nothing else it would make more sense if you ask me for profiles to stay in the event object and for set to define the envelope and common elements in the event object itself I know you do bring up a there\u0027s a challenge here given and why some of our discussion around set is there if it\u0027s inside of the event given the current structure you can\u0027t have any other top-level property at the top level because all the top-level properties are the different URIs inside of events and and then if you put it inside of that object and if you have multiple things and how do you know they\u0027re about the same you\u0027re redundant on the subject so if you\u0027re trying to say that all these about the same subject well then where does the subject go it needs a it can\u0027t be inside of the event object itself oh because it has to know a sub object that\u0027s get inside of GRI yeah which means that you\u0027re duplicating the subject yeah potentially in every "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:19",
    "text": "URI yeah and so then could you potentially drive it up to be above the event right with that that\u0027s all that\u0027s that\u0027s solving a problem we don\u0027t have yet which is to say sets getting too big with an optimization that makes the data it\u0027s not just a size problem it\u0027s also a semantic problem you introduce the possibility of different events actually within the same set actually identifying totally separate subjects and what the hell does that mean which i think is another argument for Annabelle\u0027s change of syntax yes I agree she her example was in the flavor of the current set spec and highlights some of the challenges of the current suspect yes bill I think there\u0027s I mean if we have another mysterious draft comes from somewhere else they may be talking about the same entity that would be implied even though they have different subject terminology for them so for example scheme uses URIs for resources yet they may still have a connect subject in an email so there\u0027s three different ways to talk about the same subject and so it might be reasonable to have you know in payment card industry using credit card numbers so it might be reasonable that the payment card payload contains the credit card number the connect payload contains that and so on and they\u0027re all tied together because they\u0027re tied together one can infer and maybe that\u0027s a good thing or a bad thing that if these are all things related about the same thing the follow so just I just want to jump so pick up Krang Kathleen\u0027s point around privacy right with multiple events all tied together we\u0027re now creating a bunch of correlated identifiers is on the same user and saying that this is all the same user where if you had different events you wouldn\u0027t know that they\u0027re necessarily correlated unless you already have that correlated data correct but risk is already talking about doing that within its own domain and if you\u0027re already deciding to share payment card event in a and a risk event then by concealing it are you actually creating privacy or not I don\u0027t know it yes well you\u0027re not creating it but you\u0027re maintaining it there\u0027s no guarantee that the other party the recipient of that knows that that credit card number or that credit card information and that subject go hand in hand that email I guess playing devil\u0027s advocate I was thinking about if you send them separately then the left hand doesn\u0027t know what the right hand is doing and I\u0027m not sure that that\u0027s always a good thing when the left hand and the right hand have to communicate at the same time then it\u0027s clear what you\u0027re communicating as an organization when when they have to communicate then the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:21",
    "text": "the receivers that need to do that can build systems to do that but if the format requires or mandates that the information gets correlated then the receivers who don\u0027t want it correlated their their hands are tied they don\u0027t have a path forward for that the other thing I wanted to bring up about putting subject in the event body so I can please okay so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a problem if if the receiver doesn\u0027t care about the other data they wouldn\u0027t know if configured for it so if they don\u0027t want the privacy issue there if the receiver gets data that they\u0027re not aware of now right yeah so nobody\u0027s saying that they should get data they didn\u0027t ask for so if they say I just want risk data than as long as there\u0027s a mechanism by which a receiver can receive those events separately then that is true I\u0027m just saying that that requirement exists well not just separately so they don\u0027t have to receive it at all you know if I just want risk events then I should be able to get just risk events right what I\u0027m saying is that you could envision the other way where a malicious receiver says they want a whole bunch of stuff and now they\u0027re getting a bunch of things that are correlated that they didn\u0027t know true that\u0027s that\u0027s up for the business sharing agreement to sort out I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a protocol we\u0027re eight minutes behind yep allah let leave it to phil i had the slides up earlier okay let\u0027s move along so first i thought i addressed the question why skim when i looked at the requirements it looked awfully familiar skim as a provisioning protocol it was meant to provision users and security subjects it\u0027s actually been used quite widely and extended to Internet of Things provisioning applications lots of other areas skim is a restful design that defines a resource lifecycle and one of its key points is maintaining referential integrity so as things change over time you don\u0027t lose your references to objects if you were trying to remember them this was a problem with other protocols such as LDAP another thing that we were quite concerned about some of those features seemed useful here it has some good implementation and open source availability if you want to look for a list of those you can go to simple cloud info there are a list of skim one and skin two implementations and I recently checked and there are over 20 skim two libraries available now yeah go on the next slide so it\u0027s widely used I\u0027ll leave that for later we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:23",
    "text": "the same design requirements let\u0027s go on so these examples I\u0027m going to give you cover off both risk and skim in fact they\u0027re mostly risk one of the key differences is that skim uses the HTTP methods in the restful sense to to create the operations to create search replace modify and remove a resource so one of the fundamental differences Marius was showing you was that when you for example want to remove a subject it\u0027s more like you\u0027re passing a parameter saying this is the subject I want to remove in skim you have to know the resource of that subject to pull it so that\u0027s a bit of a trade off but there are some advantages where the receiver can keep track of the subjects it\u0027s registered and delete them on request if it wants to skim uses JSON documents as the resources the structure of those documents is defined by RFC 76 43 it already has things defined like attribute types mutability marius was talking about is a configuration attribute read-only or is it updatable is it right only things like that skim defines how you handle composites the example Annabelle gave about subjects being either a Kinect user or an email address that\u0027s something familiar to skim it also deals with attributes that may be visible or not visible in other words I can enroll a subject but I can\u0027t necessarily see all the subjects that are enrolled that\u0027s something that skin deals with you can also have attribute values canonicalized so that you can say these are the valid values for this attribute it also has an extension mechanism so if I was defining an event stream I could use that extension mechanism to define and a place to put configuration parameters for each delivery method that gets defined over time so let\u0027s go to the next slide in order to figure out what things are available in a server what event streams are there there is discovery to find out where is the container for event streams it tells me what the primary schema is for that and then I can go to the schema endpoint and it will tell me all the attributes that are part of an event stream what they\u0027re mutability and readability aren\u0027t things like that these are these are standards and these are standard skin features that you already have I do standard skin endpoint yes resource types yeah service Rider config really just says tells you what features are available at that skin endpoint in skin certain methods are optional to implement this is how you find that out next slide so like Marius showed we have defined air conditioning handles so rather than "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:24",
    "text": "get into that I will say one point in the processing rules we work hard not to throw errors the issue is if you understand what the client wants to be done you don\u0027t necessarily have to throw the error so if the client makes a mistake by trying to update an attribute that\u0027s read only if you feel that you understand what\u0027s going on you can accept that not throw an error this gets around complex problems where a client seems to think a parameter is writable but it\u0027s not the real reason for it was we wanted to be able to do I get make a quick change and then I just want to throw the object back with a-put we didn\u0027t want to have that be complex so next slide that reminds me of the early days of the web other browsers were poser correcting us so you know people that coded it wrong and it figured out and guess what you wanted it\u0027s not the idea kind of yeah so the create is just a post to the event streams endpoint this is we\u0027re saying that I\u0027m creating an event stream and I\u0027m also creating an extension called web callback the parameters these would be the standard parameters that we would define in the second inspect for configuration and then down here we could put method methods specific configuration parameters since this was a late add I didn\u0027t actually give a full example of a delivery method specific parameters but this is how it would look under skin next slide so in response to that you get an object created it gets a permanent resource identifier some long gooood basically that number is the same here as marius shown we have the event URIs that were requested the event you are eyes that are available that the service provider supports and these are the event your eyes that are configured you\u0027ll notice the square brackets which tells you that\u0027s an array I just didn\u0027t have multiple examples for this one so when you create an event stream you\u0027re going to get back the identifier which is the full URL and then you\u0027ll have to use that for future operations you can or you can search for it if you didn\u0027t keep track of it so you can do it yet with a filter to say give me my give me my event streams and it would give you that back so you can go out it either way so the example there if I want to get it if I remember that URL I just do it get I can also do it as a filtered query and I just want to check I just want to return the status if it\u0027s not equal to on if it\u0027s another condition I want to see the error condition and what happened return it if there is an error so in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:26",
    "text": "example we got the we\u0027ve got the response back the status wasn\u0027t equal to okay it\u0027s now fail and there\u0027s a couple of attributes here to signal what what the error condition was that\u0027s preventing the event delivery oh bakwin\u0027s line you may notice that there\u0027s this block here which is metadata in skim anytime you see that that\u0027s really stuff that says when was the record last modified or last updated that kind of stuff that\u0027s that\u0027s what I mean by skin meta attributes so this is something that was difficult to decide on when the skin group was doing it it wasn\u0027t initially liked we like to put better but over time this has become the favorite method for updating any resource and the idea is you say I want to replace an attribute that the attribute I want to replace his status and its new value is paused pausing on the status I could similarly just do a put and having previously got the skin the configuration of the event stream I could change the value of status and just put it back that\u0027s the other way to do it skin doesn\u0027t care you can work either way so now we\u0027re into the the risk part of the presentation in the skin case we tend to use groups we tend to use filters because the user objects are actually part of the skin server so in the event steam configuration in the draft you\u0027ll see there\u0027s a bunch of ways to configure that in the event stream configuration but I\u0027ll give you a few examples of how a profile such as risk could do handle the use case like subject management other profiles could use skim in a different way what we\u0027re trying to show here is the extensibility that skin has built into it to do it in different ways so just to clarify Phil you\u0027re saying that each profile would need a profile how to use skim or yeah what what they\u0027re with essentially what your profile is defining as a data model how do you want to represent the contents of your stream right so in this case risk defines the contents has a set of subjects okay and so the deck here is this is some ideas around what risk would specify you\u0027re not proposing this would be part of CEQA that no it\u0027s already there as part of skin so it\u0027s not new work it\u0027s just there already you get it free so in the poll that that\u0027s super confusing okay we\u0027re specifying something but you\u0027re saying it\u0027s already there and I get it for free there\u0027s no work to do this this work is already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:27",
    "text": "defined by RFC 76 43 and 44 so why is this why are we specifying anything then if it\u0027s already there this part is not in the draft this is I\u0027m showing you how it\u0027s there as an example in the draft it\u0027s not normative text it\u0027s how risk could choose to model it which would be a spec for how risk add subjects sure okay sure but it\u0027s the spec is of the nature of a data model not as a it\u0027s not defining a protocol it\u0027s an easier thing sure okay so this models somewhat similar to Maris\u0027s primeras in Annabelle\u0027s presentation where we do a post to an endpoint and I provide the email the stream ID and this because it\u0027s skim you have to say what is the object that you\u0027re sending so that\u0027s there I would just specify that in which in response it would say great I\u0027ve created that so this subject enrollment in that stream becomes a permanent object that can be referenced you can update that you can delete it so if you want to change the email that user changes the email you can go back and update it and change the email what why would the stream 90 not be in the URL for your other examples on the post it could be oh I just decided to put it as a top-level object you could also say stream IDs is plural so I can enroll a single subject in multiple streams if that\u0027s what I wanted to do like to delete the subject you would just do an HTTP delete on that resource identifier the downside is you have to know what that identifier that path is if you don\u0027t know it you can query for it using it get and get that identifier so in this there\u0027s a new identifier there but he needs to track us - what\u0027s the identifier you have for the user adela this is one of the this looks it\u0027s simpler from the standpoint of the HTTP operation is simple because of the life cycle issue you end up having to create a permanent resource identifier so it\u0027s one of the downsides to this particular model but I wanted to show it because it runs in parallel to Marius and Annabelle\u0027s design next slide so this was this yeah so I\u0027m just looking at your subjects here at the top subjects as resource post variant subjects as resource just so as variant what this is all I\u0027m trying to do here is show you how you query for the subjects we\u0027re still talking about the subjects object how do I query and say what is is this example user part of this stream so there\u0027s how you would express that filter and get that back and a similar thing where issuer is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:28",
    "text": "gmail.com and the subject equals independent ID expressed a different way next slide so one of the other possibility that\u0027s in the spec is you could make this subjects an actual attribute of the stream configuration so subjects would be a multivalued attribute that has a series of sub attributes so that I could specify email based users open ID based users Sam Samuel phone numbers and so forth [Music] it\u0027s a simpler data model but it does mean you have to use Jason patch to update it next slide so if I want to check that a particular subject is part of a stream I can I can ask this the query and that tells us there\u0027s no match if there\u0027s no match I get total results equals zero if I go to the next slide [Music] and I can get a match it says there is one match and the ID of the stream that matches is here the reason I\u0027m only getting ID is that I only wanted the attribute ID returned so I don\u0027t have to eat the whole elephant I can just ask for the stream ID and get that next slide so this is an example of how I would confirm that an open ID Connect subject is part of a stream what the complication that open ID Connect presents is that it\u0027s a two-part subject you have to have both issuer and subject and in a database you can end up with inner outer join problems so the way skin resolves this is by saying subjects is the parent attribute and I want to do a filter against on the same record if value equals this and issue or equals this then I\u0027ll get the correct intersection on the correct value of subjects will work so that avoids nasty inner outer join problems so that seems complex but it\u0027s not because the protocol is complex it\u0027s because the problem is so on the event stream then the subjects attribute has a value attribute it has a type attribute the type tells you what the current content of the subject is is that an email address is it an open ID connect and if it\u0027s open ID connect we also have the issue attribute is that clear just a couple more so if I want to add a subject Alice at example.com to the stream configuration I\u0027m updating the subjects attribute and the value is got two sub attributes type and value and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:29",
    "text": "that\u0027s how you add somebody to a stream and this is the same example done for open ID connects of the type is open ID Connect so the value this is an open ID Connect subject value and the issuer yes we complete information so wouldn\u0027t open ID Connect be implicit like you and my missing confused they\u0027re open ID Connect would be implicit you wouldn\u0027t be explicitly adding an open ID Connect identifier would you be you might I think we discussed you might have to remove it right which I this is a bad example so this is an ADD example but there\u0027s also a remove operation so it worked the same way here\u0027s the remove right so the advantage that I like about this is that I\u0027m just specifying a filter to say this is the subject I want I don\u0027t have to query for that ugly event subject resource identifier that in the other model in this model I can just say just remove this row that matches this so I\u0027ve rushed through that so hopefully we get some time back Anabelle back men up how much of what you just presented from the skin protocol is mandatory to implement [Music] which are you referring to I\u0027m referring to all of the examples of the skin I don\u0027t think that there is a fixed proposal here correct me if I\u0027m wrong Phil you\u0027re you sort of propose here\u0027s a couple different ways of forcing management there\u0027s probably in infinite ways it could be modeled right but we saw we saw several examples of capabilities of skin things like the filtering and querying how much of what we saw their capability wise is mandatory to implement you have to do the object creation and put and got have to be implemented you don\u0027t have to implement patch you do not have to implement patch what about the schemas and other standard endpoints that you talked about earlier that has to be implemented but that also has a you still have the requirement that Mary is discussed but you have to find a way to figure out what configuration parameters are required and optional and its other parameters read write or ravine write the the endpoints that you\u0027re that you present it I mean doesn\u0027t skim our fire yeah the endpoints I present if you mean for resource types and schemas right and meta attributes yeah that\u0027s just how skim expresses it and how discovery of configuration is done so when you have a new transmission method come "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:29",
    "text": "along you would be able to find out if that service provider supports we talked about polling just a few minutes ago if you want to know does Amazon support polling I could check the schemas thing to see if you have that defined the allow it if skim were were to be used for the management API that you\u0027d have to be using skims it\u0027s discovery mechanisms yeah schema management mechanisms everything I only carry me and I see that your distribution is similar to the blockchain do you see what is the difference between your distributions as far as the endpoints to what is the difference between yours and watch-chain I mean I see that it is similar in blockchain yeah I\u0027m not sure I mean when you go in and you identify what all your integrals are that\u0027s the same way of the blockchain is distribute the connectivities and authorizations it\u0027s possible if it is it\u0027s a happy coincidence I\u0027m not aware that\u0027s news to me I mean he had this you know I mean these type of discussions skin it skims origins started as an informal SPECT under skin one that Salesforce started with paying in a few other companies and it was formalized a few years later as skim to so that\u0027s where it came from so and as I recall that would have predated blockchain by a long time so I possible it\u0027s just a coincidence or possible they took some of the model from skin we struggle they just I don\u0027t want to redundant I said to RFC\u0027s coming up well the skin is one of the perspectives here you make a good point because one of the perspectives when we were starting stock events and yarns brought it up over and over is why don\u0027t you use an existing protocol for managing this stuff like Netcom my answer was we are reusing a protocol it\u0027s called skin because many of us are also skin users as well but net comp to the people who are interested would be brand new to everyone it\u0027s not saying that that net count comp can\u0027t work but maybe it\u0027s maybe it\u0027s the neutral speck maybe we should look at both of them and if there is a similarity if your paper or their paper they should say that hey these are same Tinga the problem I think comes up is that for the skin community any change means an additional protocol they have to support so I\u0027ll admit it\u0027s a shortcut for the skimming community because we don\u0027t have to do anything new we already have it but I know there\u0027s lots of people in the room who are a risk you\u0027re saying skins new to me and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:31",
    "text": "have to implement that skim stack and I don\u0027t want to so they might be just as equally amenable to net comp for something brand new I thought that\u0027s news on dead already I\u0027m sorry I can\u0027t understand what you\u0027re saying could you repeat that this game is new to some of their other peoples they should go back and read it I mean it\u0027s not your problem if I don\u0027t know it it\u0027s my problem I think that was the point I was making what the first couple slides by saying okay yeah white adoption and lots of libraries but yeah just briefly to that point it\u0027s not necessarily our problem but it\u0027s the problem of the people who are ultimately going to have to implement these things and play with this Interop if we want these protocols to be adopted then they have to be at least four risk or we need something that\u0027s going to be easy for the long tail of parties out there to implement yeah I think it\u0027s hard to say what is easy because people are starting from different places and have different objectives so it\u0027s tricky yeah well it\u0027s always relative if you\u0027ve already if you already got skim deployed and running it so I\u0027m on my slides now which you chewed in ten minutes you ten ten ten minutes into my slides so just uh Phil had this and the profiles before that we have a bunch of different profiles and you know as I look at a lot of the traffic on the list Kathleen I\u0027m looking for some guidance here and some of what we\u0027re doing like it seems at times that sometimes we\u0027re trying to ram a square peg into a round hole and some of these things that the requirements from different different parts of the working group are radically different than other parts of the working group and that you know I wonder whether there\u0027s enough overlap for this or not you know people have different problems and they should standardizing the problems and if we try to ram too many things together then everybody\u0027s unhappy or one group super unhappy like the square peg right now in that picture Kathleen Moriarty ad so one thing that we\u0027ve been working on in the ACE working group is making a list of things and comparing things it\u0027s not an exact comparison to what you\u0027re talking about because in their case they have I think the word profile triggered this they have several profiles that have to be compared to see what they want to prioritize to move forward and there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:32",
    "text": "all different requirements and use cases that would feed each of those as well as interest in implementing and deploying right to understand how to prioritize and and what should be worked on and they\u0027re doing that on the wiki of the working group every working group has a wiki is there something here where you could it could even just be a session or interim where you run through these priorities doesn\u0027t have to be wiki it might not fit into that type of of comparison but if it was weighted out and shown like interest well I pulled the other some slides to talk about what I\u0027ve gathered as being some of the open issues so I was just going to run through those just to sort of highlight what they are just to help guide the conversation I was sort of leading off is there overlap as a question and then what they\u0027re going to get into the pieces you know and I could hear the intention through the room on different problems so okay before you launch into that I\u0027m not so sure it\u0027s a question of overlap between skin versus heart versus risk what I am sensing at least from my perspective is the the square peg round hole issue it has to do with enterprise versus consumer within the risk space so risk is not as doesn\u0027t have as strong as consensus at this time as maybe it should and that\u0027s bleeding over into this working group as as to trying to lay the foundation requirements that cover them all yes I think I think you\u0027re characterizing what some earlier discussions have been accurately they\u0027ll thank you that it doesn\u0027t seem like we have strong consensus within second aunt and some of that may be the lack of strong consensus within risk so just what some of those open issues on set there\u0027s sort of the singularity and plural our reality of events on the subject where is the subject how does that work there seems to be a fair amount of contention around those aren\u0027t set delivery there\u0027s push versus pull and then as as Mary\u0027s brought in there\u0027s do we specify how you attend occation happens or is that left to the profile if it\u0027s left to the profile then you have you know lack of interoperability but then could you even spec it in suck event you know I look at skim skim doesn\u0027t specify how to authenticate and so if you\u0027re using scheme you\u0027re probably going to use whatever mechanism is already being used in skim and reuse that in suck event you\u0027re not going to want to go and get have suck event specify how you authenticate and skim if you already got away in scam stream management you know for people that have deployed skim and are trying to use SEC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:34",
    "text": "of int for skim it\u0027s very logical and a very straightforward model to use skim to manage it for risk you know you know the it isn\u0027t as straightforward for doing a number the risk ones and the api that mary has put together seems to make sense for the consumer oriented people for solving their problem you know so the you know question i have is there enough overlap across all of this stuff you know and what are the next steps on these different things you know there\u0027s contention onset event distribution seems to be a little more aligned but there\u0027s you know pull versus push you know should those be separate documents does that even useful enough to do those there definitely seems to be two completely different ideas on the management API and to Justin\u0027s earlier question you know if we don\u0027t really have a lot of stuff that\u0027s common and what\u0027s what are we doing here you know so I sort of have these open questions that I\u0027m posing to the working group and welcome people to come up and provide commentary on their thoughts on this and would love guidance from the ADR and how do i drive consensus where there isn\u0027t I don\u0027t know if it makes sense for there to be consensus for some things this is Justin I would encourage all the members of the working group to concentrate on the commonalities between different profiles and specifying those instead of waging wars over oh I have my little special snowflake attribute over here that I really really really need to have okay that\u0027s fine go have that I don\u0027t care figure out where the overlaps are right figure out what those round pegs actually are that do belong in the second vent I do think that there are quite a number of them that we could agree on time of event being a really simple one that seems to have bubbled up surprisingly recently and that I believe is where we\u0027re going to start seeing driving consensus towards something that these multiple groups and multiple profiles and whatever can actually use the discussions that I\u0027ve seen on the list in this group so far have largely been around people arguing no don\u0027t specify that because I need something else or I\u0027m going to do something else or I don\u0027t want you to specify that because I don\u0027t care about it and so I think that that\u0027s just been largely destructive to the conversation so far and the group needs to get over that well I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s disruptive but those are people\u0027s opinions are and what they\u0027d like and not like I didn\u0027t say disruptive I said destructive Oh destructive yes almost the same thing Kathleen you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:46",
    "text": "sure Annabelle Backman so I definitely agree with Justin on focusing on the yeah the actual round pegs your description of what\u0027s been going on at the very end though about people saying no don\u0027t specify that because that doesn\u0027t work for me or don\u0027t specify facts I need to do something different that sounds more like a disagreement over what is a round peg and what\u0027s not so if we haven\u0027t even gotten consensus around that I think it\u0027s hard to you know focus on the round pegs if you know we\u0027re we\u0027re all seeing them differently tony Medlin so I think is Annabelle said we don\u0027t know what share the round pegs and which are the square pegs so they all look the same to me so we just use a hammer on them they all work sure yeah I mean when you when you\u0027re sitting there with a hammer everything looks like a nail yeah but I think that\u0027s some of the challenge in the group is some people come from up one side and it all makes sense of them and other people come from another angle and they have quite a different view on what are the right tools Kathleen Moriarty how can you frame a helpful discussion to narrow down to the round pegs and maybe this is an interim and if it\u0027s well structured is there a way to get to that so that would be my first my question to you with a suggestion mixed into that question what do you think well you put me on the spot and putting you on the spot I wasn\u0027t trying to put you on the spot I mean I was I was looking for guidance R and I almost every one of the documents has a fair amount of contention on it and you know as I have listened to the different sides you know different people have valid points for what they\u0027re trying to do because we\u0027re trying to we have a number of different use cases all trying to use the same thing but maybe they don\u0027t really all fit because like one\u0027s a screw and one\u0027s a nail and you should use a screw driver versus a hammer yes I know that\u0027s right is there some way that we can compare each of these to make it clear that there\u0027s some commonality and figure out what that commonality is how can we have that useful conversation is kind of what I\u0027m trying to push you towards sure yeah I mean we\u0027ve had a bunch of offline conversations on trying to drive online or interim or within a meeting pardon me online not offline right so either you know with the full group or an interim to get it some of these things like with a focused discussion a guided focus discussion yeah we had a inter meaning "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:49",
    "text": "among some of the contention this morning and I was hoping that I would see a meeting an interim meeting is announced two weeks in advance and plans and your ad is aware of it so my apologies we had an ad hoc meeting this morning so that I could try to have more consensus for the meeting here and I was unsuccessful in that and and my takeaway out of that meeting was I didn\u0027t feel we were I got concerned that we were going to whether we could get consensus aren\u0027t a number of these aspects in this working group okay all right so I\u0027m happy to help plan for an interim if that would help I mean do people think that it would help if we find a way to structure this to get to commonality would that be helpful I guess one of the things would be an action item maybe I can take arm would be to grat try to figure out what is everybody agreeing on and seeing if there\u0027s enough of that or that to be worth us working on yeah and that\u0027s kind of yeah that\u0027s kind of what I\u0027m pushing towards I just didn\u0027t know how you might do it sure as opposed to focusing on I think someone else mentioned that instead of focusing on where do we disagree let\u0027s highlight what we do agree on and if there\u0027s enough that we do agree on then that means there\u0027s something to work on any guidance if there isn\u0027t really an awful lot that we I think let\u0027s revisit it and if you could show me you know work through where it is and so I could see then I might have more helpful guidance because after that first step I you know I guess I have to see the outcome to know if I have more helpful guidance okay so I\u0027m happy to work with you on this and try to find solutions is basically what I\u0027m saying okay thank you Annabelle Backman I think from what I\u0027ve seen on the list most of her more of the disagreement and contention is around the protocol aspects the in the api\u0027s rather than the set token format itself not that there\u0027s hasn\u0027t been contention there but I think it\u0027s relatively minor in comparison it seems to me that if I could just interject Phil would have a different opinion because he views that if we went with your proposal we might as well rewriting the whole spec and so I yeah I did hear him say that I unsurprisingly I disagree but the the points that there\u0027s contention over I think arise less from your technical incompatibility issues whereas in the the protocol space we have you know one party saying well we have something that works and we don\u0027t want to do something else and other parties saying well the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:49",
    "text": "option that works great for you doesn\u0027t work great for us that\u0027s sort of more of a fundamental disagreement over over requirements because I think at the token format level there isn\u0027t as much of that but if we can\u0027t close on the open issues for the token if we can\u0027t agree on a common token format then I don\u0027t really see there being any prayer of us know making progress with anything else it seems like that would be the place to start bill we\u0027ve got three minutes guys I think the issue is is that for many the o3 draught has a certain wide utility that can be used in many way and Annabelle and yourself would like to strict it and now Justin would like to restrict it to one event payload and and one only so there is a lot of commonality and that we want to convey at least one event but the problem becomes for those of us at the end of the day have to convey multiple components to that message that just shifts the complexity somewhere else now we\u0027re talking about a more complex delivery protocol a bunch of things all follow from that or we walk away and we don\u0027t have second ents anymore I still maintain that the o3 draught can be deployed and used in a single event way quite easily and the message is clear and the message is quite simple it only starts to look complex for these edge cases where you need to have multiple payloads and you can\u0027t it\u0027s it\u0027s an optional part and people don\u0027t have to use it it can be used in a very simple fill I think we all understand your position you think that what you drafted works and then as other people have looked to profile and it\u0027s the proposal that covers everybody\u0027s use cases whereas the proposal put forward the alternate proposal says now now I really feel like a square peg in a round hole where I\u0027m gonna shear off my sides in order to get it to work and yeah I mean it may not be working for other profiles and I think that one of the aspects is that as the profile is dug into exactly how would they go and use set is they found challenges and how that actually you know as they were looking to implement and actually get into the details they came up with issues and as people put up you know Annabelle\u0027s proposal may not work for skim and that may drive the fact that we\u0027re isn\u0027t nearly as much commonality in in the set between scheme and risk as people might have originally thought I think I\u0027m Jack you\u0027re Phil I\u0027m Phil Phil here think the example you\u0027re referring to was risks analysis of this and I have to point out that the risk working group hasn\u0027t agreed that conveying one event URI is appropriate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:49",
    "text": "there at all we don\u0027t agree there so we don\u0027t agree here sure say that risk analyzed it and came to that conclusion would be a mischaracterization people and risk analyzed it and had a different conclusion yes we have the people in risk analyzed it and some of the reason it will have differing conclusions well one there isn\u0027t even a skin working group looking at it yet so I know but there is a really you you phrase that it doesn\u0027t work for you or work for skim that I don\u0027t have an analysis it\u0027s Tony\u0027s turn and we\u0027ve got like two minutes because your mischaracterizing my words I said specifically in the risk working group we don\u0027t agree with that conclusion okay I not disagreeing with that Tony nedelin so hi Tony hi dick some of the I guess you know this work started over in the skin working group and you know we had plenty of ideas there and how to use events with with skin and it\u0027s you know other ideas have come into this group all you know into into this working group since it got formed based upon the skin work and so yeah so things yes sorry I\u0027m talking you mine geez that\u0027s really and so the you know some of the people\u0027s thoughts are just you know different than what it all started out to be you know and you know some of we use this for both you know what we\u0027ve been doing works for both the enterprise and and also the consumer because this is what we use it in and so to limit it you know just a risk I think is a bad approach limit which the whole design to just basically redoing what\u0027s been going on over in the risk working group my disco disco I just want to highlight the fact that the proposals to simplify the set comes from two companies who are actually doing an actual implementation right now so this is feedback after implementing this and deploying these things and it\u0027s early feedback from implementation we are keeping owning that that\u0027s gonna come up as more people implement this and yeah that\u0027s what I want to say thanks yeah I think implementation feedback is super useful John Bradley yubico so way back in the dark days when there was a skin working group still there was a conversation that happened between the Open ID Connect working group which needed to do a back-channel logout ie send a shot from the identity provider to the relying party to say this login has been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:51",
    "text": "revoked terminate the session and we said looked around and said well we could just send an ID token with an additional claim saying logout seems simple enough but then we had a I had a conversation with life when we said you know maybe there\u0027s some combination you know we shouldn\u0027t necessarily try and do something separate there\u0027s already a control channel that\u0027s happening back using skim is there some way that we could use skins using skim itself turned out to be way more complicated than anybody was interested in deploying so then we started well what about the skin messaging thing that hasn\u0027t hadn\u0027t really caught on at that point then other people have piled on but well well Oh John John John John has a mic it had home for over time so if you could get just let us know what your point is here John no my point is that we have attempted to work together if you know as as this workgroup has sort of taken off what largely happened is that sat has gotten so complicated with the management API it may not actually be plausibly deployable as an open ID connect back-channel logout mechanism because no one is going to be willing to deploy all of the extra functionality which I think some of the point that Ana belén and others are trying to make so it may actually at the end of the day you may be correct that maybe we do have square pegs in round holes between some of the simple messaging things that we want to do in some of the more more complete functionality that the enterprise skin folks have in mind thank you we\u0027re out of time thank you everybody I will work to create a doc on what I think ours where we have common agreement to see how much that is and post that to list and we\u0027ll have discussion on the list we\u0027ll also see if we can have some maybe an ad hoc meeting posted and I\u0027ll post on a list or later this week to keeping driving to some of this more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:52",
    "text": "you "
  }
]