[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "all right we'll get started oh it's 12 o'clock now so we'll go ahead and get started this is a very small group today um I have heard from Maris laav um who won't be here um I'm not sure if we're expecting Martin or not um but we'll go ahead and get started um did you said link to the minutes but then you did are you asking for it or are you providing it because there's no link here oh we did it at the same time hello derer hi Karen hi hi Yakov how are you it's been a while it's been a while I saw the advert advertisement of an ntp session and I said let's hear what's going on in the in the ntp world well today we'll probably be pretty quiet oh good Martin is here excellent um but we do have we have made some progress um so we will go ahead and get started this is the ntp working group um as you all should be aware um this is the not well for the ntp working group all um by participating in this meeting you have agreed to abide by all of these policies and procedures and um if you have any questions feel free to contact myself or Dior or um our area director which is Eric Klein um first of all we will be using um the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "online minutes tool um and ditch and I just both put the link in the notes for the notes there feel free to help contribute and to to add to those notes as you go um we will try to use the the um Q tool but um obviously there's there this is pretty small group so we should be pretty in we should be able to be pretty informal um please be clear concise and respectful and please act according to our iatf code of conduct so with that we have an agenda similar to the previous V virtual interims that we've had where we're um going through documents and um getting an update on where they are um there is um I I don't uh I I see Martin that you're on here um I see that you've published an update to NTS for PTP which I would obviously like you to talk about um the other thing that I would like a little bit of conversation on related to that is the pools discussion that's been in the email um so I didn't add that as a separate any other business I don't know if it'll come up in the context of NTS for PTP or whether we'll just add it as a separate Topic at the end um is there any other agenda Bash no um one other uh this uh came out on the mailing list as well and the other uh the other thing that I wanted to be sure to note if anybody had not seen it um is that and there will be a a short memorium at at the iatf uh iatf 119 but um as you all are probably all aware um Dave Mills passed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "away earlier this year and so we wish to uh acknowledge his significant contributions in the space um and it's indeed a a sad moment so um I just wanted just to this was the first meeting we've had since then so I wanted to acknowledge that um all right so the next thing on the agenda is our document review status um so the updating the ntp Registries uh is all of the updates from the working group last call were made uh it's with Eric and I have not I neglected to check in with Eric to see where we are with that I thought it was pretty close to going out Rich do you know if there's been an update that I'm not aware of um he had a qu Eric had a question about um and also responded about uh pardon me whether CA it commented on some old rfc's whether the preexisting ietf trust terminology was needed and said I didn't think so it was just saying these documents said that deer agreed so I'm not sure what's going on yeah I I remember that email exchange now that you mention right haven't heard anything since then I assume it'll show up on a telat soon okay great um the so that's the Registries document uh the next document is the Enterprise profile which is actually the Tik Tock uh working group document uh we really want to push this through and get the Tik Tok working group properly closed um that is in iatf last call which ends the 5th of March um and so I haven't seen a a lot of conversation about it yet um but we'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "see what happens and then the third document that's sort of beyond the working group is the Chronos document which has at long last been published I see Netta is on the call so we want to congratulate her on getting that that document through the process and published and um look forward to updates on implementations go ahead NAA hi so um thank you very much and um yeah I'm I'm currently discussing with the H about um how to to to promote Horrors and uh and implement it and so um um and also if there are anyone who would like to H be involved in the H implementation in the MTF he or she are uh very um invited so okay please let yeah if you um you know any updates that you have on the implementation status or any deployment status information if you could you know pass that back to the working group it would be very helpful so um so that is our document status and review update um the ntp over PTP we did the working group Last Call on it it was a bit of an anemic response but the responses that we got did indicate that it was ready to go uh marav in his status update to De and I today indicated that there was a couple of editorial changes to be made um and that are already in the G repository and so it can be with those it's ready to go to the isg um So the plan is to go ahead and move forward with that um is there any other questions or comments on the ntp over PT TP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "document um the npv 5 requirements document um James is not on the call um this one is in a little bit of a limbo um there was a lot of discussion um on it in the um in the context of the working group last call there is the as far as resolving a lot of the technal discussions I think there is uh some concern from a couple working group members that uh their comments were not adequately addressed um and also I know Kristoff you sent in a lot of stuff and it's not clear to me whether uh what the status of your review of that document is so if you could I don't know if you have a moment to specify what that is uh sure I take it this is working and you can all hear me um so I think the summary of my status is everything that I saw as a blocking issue has been resolved sometimes with what I would call the bare minimum but it's it's the minimum so that's fine um it's all sufficient and I had one point it is on the mailing list I I can't concisely summarize it now I don't don't okay have it handy I had one point that I wanted the the working group as as a whole to like look into if that merits more discussion from the Viewpoint of anyone else um if no one else sees it as a problem my statement was basically and that remains that I would just like Let It Go so from my point of view everything has potentially been resolved except if someone one else sees um any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "of my points is important enough to reopen the discussion I guess yeah I'm not I'd rather not reopen discussions we don't need to so um all right so that uh there there's a couple minor issues that I need to look into and we need to check uh Dior and I will need to check with Eric our plan is to go ahead and try and publish it and see if what the isg how the isg feels about it I know that there's a lot of questions about um whether requirements documents should be published or not um so we'll see where we end up at that point but I think at this point it needs to be a conversation with Eric and the isg so um all right the uh ongoing so in the only updated document that we've gotten since the last meeting is the NTS for PTP so I'm going to move it to the top of the list um and then ask uh Martin if you would like to speak to that document yeah hi uh yeah of course I updated the document uh Rina bber and I have made many structure changes on this document we got some feedback from from David uh and we put it into our document um and currently I guess it's far enough to move it to an official working group document so I don't I'm not quite sure what is necessary call of adaptation or adaption I'm not quite sure um I also work on the implementation I'm not not very far this uh months was a bit slowly but I'm making progress and I guess it's also pretty far in in in total so the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "uh will not change much uh I guess so yeah um so I want to to move it to the uh to to the uh official working document so yeah this is why the C status okay um all right so you feel it's ready to move to official working group document um yes I think we can um I just lost my data tracker my Meo window there we go um I feel that it's time to go ahead and do that as well uh is there anybody who feels that we're not ready to to move this to a working group document oh I didn't I missed a comment from Neta in the saw a comment from n might do you mean about the content of the document if I understand your question correctly oh this is the the the spreadsheet that um was put together for the ntp pool discussion um uh ah okay uh so yeah I can also uh give some inform let um let's hold that first let let's hold that for just a second meta and let's focus on the main question about NTS for PTP like whether we want to adopt that or not um is there anybody who feels that we should not be adopting this as a working group document we'll still do the call the uh request for adoption on the main mailing list but I just wanted to see if anybody had any other questions regarding this document um at this time no okay uh so then that brings the question about the NTS for NTS and for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "ntp pools um and there's been a lot of discussion about this on the mailing list uh so Martin do you want to talk about that and this David did this spreadsheet it's also there's been an excellent conversation about it on the mailing list um so Martin are you okay to talk about it yeah yeah sure uh so some m idea is to protect uh ntp pools with NTS so this is a Bas basic idea and currently we have different ideas um what we can do to make it um to secure these pools um but we have of course to to assess or to uh to analyze what is necessary at the moment so what are the goals or are use cases um if we protect ntp pools with NTS then we have of course different attack attack vectors so we have to check them and currently we we collect all the ideas so we have currently a table uh provided by David uh somewhere in the mailing list and currently this is a loose discussion as far as and now David want uh start a project uh and this is some kind of of a reason for this so yeah David has um well he he was doing an ntpv4 implementation uh and uh and he's also looking at npv 5 and he is doing an NTS implementation which is why he's interested in this topic um um yes I guess it's maybe it's a good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "idea to to um did this task at least to check does it make sense or if we have trouble if if we combine NTS with ntp pools so therefore I think it's a good idea but it's not not very really easy to to answer the question how we perform uh I think you know my my my of this is my understanding of this is we you know we developed NTS for ntp with the knowledge that it wasn't going to work with the you know public ntp pools um and there's been you know a fair amount of discussion over a couple years about how that particular problem might be solved there's still a question about whether it can be done for public pools but maybe it can be done for private pools um so it's it's a little bit orthogonal to the issue of NTS for PTP um and my reading of your email Martin was that uh this this issue doesn't exist for NTS with PTP it's it's really an NTS for ntp type of issue that that's correct right uh yes so maybe so I see NTS we have Curr structures to to create uh security solution between uh one key management server and different ATP time servers so we have a a frame for this but I see also some problems if we try to set up a public ntp uh NTS key establishment server but we have to check it in detail so this is not very easy because the communication is is much more complex we have more paths so pass between the ntp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "server and the key management server we have uh the communication between the time server and the client and so it's more complex so we have to check it and at least uh if we see we have problems and it is not possible to secure it then maybe we can create a document to uh to show why we can we not solve it is this a case maybe maybe we can secure it but yeah we have to check it so but we are in the very beginning and we collecting the ideas and then we have to check okay what what can we do or what is not possible yeah I would think it's really you're right we're at the we're at the point where we're and that's what that spreadsheet does it sort of looks at some of the characteristics of some of the different proposals that have been discussed um I mean they're not at they're definitely not even at the implementation or documentation stage yet it's really a discussion of ideas um for anybody who has expertise and interest in this I would strongly encourage you to look at the NTS pools n people's discussion in the mailing list recently um and and help us out here so does that answer your question Netta [Music] or yes yes it does thank you all right thank you very much um so the next uh item on the agenda is is the ntp V5 protocol specification uh we did hear from marav that he did not have an update for this meeting and he expected to have more time uh to work on it over the next couple of months uh I would again remind people to comment on it now while they can um that would be very helpful uh and the final document or the final work item we have is rough time um and I have not gotten any updates and there's not an updated document on that so I don't know if there's anybody here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "that can speak to whether the rough time group is making any progress or not and that would be no um so that brings us to the end of our agenda um as we had previously indicated we're not going to meet in Brisbane uh we have D and I have tent tentatively discussed our next meeting being uh early April uh uh tentatively April 11th um and so we will proceed with with trying to do a virtual interim every four to five weeks um and there may be a very informal side meeting without any remote participation in Brisbane um there are one or two local participants in Brisbane who are sort of disappointed that we are not meeting so um I'd like to at least have a u a Meetup of some sort of anybody that's really interested in ntp uh probably use the side meeting agenda to do that um any other questions or comments all right uh with that I will oh wait go ahead Rich no sorry a cough and then hit the key at the same time nothing okay um all right with that uh we can close the meeting thank you everybody for coming and uh we will Target some more activity in April thank you bye- bye bye thank you byebye thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:07",
    "text": "bye"
  }
]
