[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "[Music] hello it\u0027s 1:30 so let\u0027s go ahead and start the welcome to 600 Wharton group and my name is Gabrielle Montenegro and my co-chairs is Sami Toxocara unfortunately is not here with us nor secretary James Wood yet so I\u0027m really gonna need some help from you particularly this time around we already have the great services thank you very much of Dominique for minute taking but the minute taking is an activity it\u0027s best done as a community we have an ether pad is there anybody else who can add some stuff to the ether pad at the same time help don\u0027t mean eek taking minutes or even if you don\u0027t take them on etherpad anybody who can take notes on their own and then send to the chairs your minutes anybody else for a minute taking jabber scribe so okay thank you that\u0027s it okay so even if you didn\u0027t raise your hand if you have any time add stuff to the minutes or send them to me afterwards I would be highly appreciated okay this is the note well hopefully you\u0027ve seen this several times this week if you have not you\u0027re not familiar with it or don\u0027t agree with it then please remove yourself from this room these are the rules for participating they are that important thank you this is the agenda for today a completely full agenda but typically we grow to to fill it so we do have a fair number of documents some of them are just updates but we\u0027ll have about an hour and a half instead of two hours quick update on draft status since no that was Prague now Chicago since 99 whatever wherever it was being 77 six 775 update is passed working group last call some comments have been incorporated believe is I meet the still has some comments to produce or incorporate I am also gating item there because I\u0027m in the process of writing the Shepherd document and giving a last look so as soon as the chairs can get their act together we\u0027ll get this off to the iesg as for the backbone router it was updated with some comments and also there was an IPR disclosure on this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:29",
    "text": "document a P and D also received comments from from Renee Stewart crypto expert those are already incorporated well you will hear an update on on the same and if see updated with some comments we\u0027ll hear an update as well Bluetooth mesh just had an exchange with the author\u0027s was it last night I believe basically Oh is there so do you want to give a quick update on the mic this you don\u0027t have a presentation today so you might want to just give a quick update right now if if you\u0027re ok with that a little myth so the the document has been stable for a while we are not aware of a new standing issue however we thought that before actually requesting the working robles call do be good to have some implementation experience so we have started to work in that direction however at this moment we haven\u0027t yet fulfilled that to have our own implementation and also I\u0027d like to to make a call so that if you think this could be interesting please also try to to employ in the draft as a validation of it yeah so this is a very important point we are delaying the draft no problem with that because there\u0027s something very important called implementation and I think it makes some sense to publish something if we have a finished implementation because the point of it is figuring out oh we miss this woman\u0027s dad and if it\u0027s already published it\u0027s way too late so this is this is exactly what we should do we should you know your priority to finishing off implementation validating what the spec is all about and then you know we\u0027ll proceed so unless there is any other urgency I think that that makes perfect sense to wait for for implementation that no problem excellent thank you that list what else use cases there\u0027s a new version we will hear an update today the Lai jo6 law expiration time that document disappeared now it\u0027s called draft ITF I forget the new there\u0027s a new name for it but if anybody remembers what it is anyway we adopted it we there\u0027s still implementation w SN open WS n there seem to be pretty healthy interest in the working group so that\u0027s preceding and it\u0027s now a zero zero official draft and PLC we will have to we have an update on that today so there\u0027s some discussion going on with itu SD 15 and so you know well we\u0027ll talk about it okay this is for later so why don\u0027t we go ahead and start okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:36",
    "text": "oh okay no mouse is that working setting up your vise yeah man it\u0027s not just playing what it should no no no no no I\u0027m just for some reason it didn\u0027t as soon as I put it in there go oh never mind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:20",
    "text": "we have so I was in this room this morning and the mic went out of battery so I\u0027m not surprised that it works now okay so so basically the whole story goes that we have extending 610 D now it looks very very much like a layer three association the equivalent of a 2.11 association but @ly au 3 and coupled with the backbone router we we get the capability to to roam between layers three access points which are called the backbone routers in a fashion that does not generate broadcasts over the fabric which is pretty cool it actually represents a function that is required by the dot even specifications but is actually not provided by the ATF or was not provided by the ATF so far so that\u0027s pretty much what what we are achieving with these changes in our obviously we didn\u0027t do it for Wi-Fi but interesting side effect that it does this so like I said we have three drafts so the update is the one that passed one group last call so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s state after that but it\u0027s basically ready to to send to the ASG we want it to publish some needs maybe so Sammy does that she had some needs that she wanted to add to it none of these working anymore the second draft is doing something that was not that does not to my knowledge has an equivalently of two which is when the device roams from a place to an IP you know your API backbone router to another backbone router we can actually validate through a proof of ownership that it is the same guy that is registering the same address as before so that prevents an attacker from making it believe to the new IP the new bagman router that is the guy that was there impersonating him to get his traffic or to do whatever else so now we we are actually protecting against impersonation and last but not least the backbone router basically does all the proxy and the operation so that the device can seamlessly move from a backbone router to another backbone router and still gets which ability from the subnet and from the rest of the Internet so for this one like I said many thanks to Charlie actually so thanks to his review and the workgroup last call we have improved the quality of the document we didn\u0027t change much of the content but we improved the quality of the readability and samhitas that she wants a few needs I did as a dot 11 but that\u0027s a - right there but that will be minor and then we are ready to share so the second slide where is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:21",
    "text": "the one on which I want to spend more time it\u0027s the address protection draft so we have there were some holes actually so we got some some good reviews by Bob maskavich and and her district so some things were a bit and they are specified like exactly which curve you\u0027re using because there are variations of curves which links we were pointing on the specification that we needed to refer to normatively so we have fixed this sort of thing so now we have a clear you need to step wise approach to how you encode things and we have agility so we have two chains we can use RSA or we can use Edwards curve actually one of the Edwards curves and we can encode it in the in the packet so we have added agility we have made it a lot clearer all the steps and which bits you kept to build everything we have one minor difference with the usual way of coding things and that comes from honey so honey basically told us that you know if you use these sweet people will use a sha-256 but then it\u0027s a 512 and if you have an implementation and you want to cover both oh now you need to implement all this okay so for 48 words now we went down to char 256 which is a change to what people are used to so that you can have a single implementation for for yash coding right that\u0027s a sort of thing we\u0027ve done based on honey\u0027s feedback more important maybe for the implementer is honey has published a document a tell week which we don\u0027t want to paraphrase which tells you all sort of things you can do to make your implementation simpler and to avoid duplicate code so we are simply pointing as an informational reference to honey\u0027s documents so if you want to implement those two ways of securing so his monetary and and yes is the mandatory one um anyway so one is military and the other is not and so if you want to implement both there\u0027s a way to make your call a lot smaller and that\u0027s given in in any document okay like I said we have now clear references to everything everything so we asked Tony to help us on the document because you have so much that we would like him as a co-author and maybe you do a final cleanup but we are pretty up here ready with what\u0027s in there so we think we are ready for second honey will help us pass through this idea review so if you could just rip out that and then we could yeah I also wonder if we get we had a pretty good review by Renee yes I\u0027m kind of wondering what additional value a sector review would bring I mean we already got it basically right we got Bob to help us then we got money to help "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:21",
    "text": "us so we\u0027re and Mohit is an expert on that field as well right so it\u0027s kind of yeah yeah but but he\u0027s one of the authors so the I mean it\u0027s good to have a separate set of ice and we did have those yes and so I\u0027ll think about but I\u0027m kind of wondering if we actually need to have any fazil one or so I\u0027ll double check out what supply and by the way the name came back it\u0027s nice stuff you see I was looking for the name of this that NIST is the default and then you can go to it what I\u0027m sorry I was going back but they okay oh okay I was saying there are there is a default chain of you know crypto and hash and the default is NIST 256 and the the the agility comes from it works that\u0027s what\u0027s in the draft now sorry custom yeah custom own I\u0027m confused by your slide about pre hash so do you always do pre hash or do you never do pre hash or do you have two different code points for single point it does pre ash and that was another recommendation by honey we can discuss that if you don\u0027t agree but he said basically that every single cut path so we said pre ash all the time let\u0027s find with me I only want to make sure that we know for we actually make it clear that out of the three possibilities we support only one that we are fine good question did you say you kept RSA it\u0027s not just purely ECC no it\u0027s it\u0027s pure ECC okay you\u0027re not keeping our say no it\u0027s it\u0027s my mind I was looking for NIST and yes Krishna so you want to take the review before the voting group last call or like yeah I\u0027m fine either way but I just want to understand actually I had a I didn\u0027t see were here so yeah I have a question for you we have a very good review by Brenna and Bob which resulted in this version now and I\u0027m wondering what additional value would a sector review have I mean we\u0027re already got Rene he\u0027s probably gonna be the person that they would have assigned anyways okay so do we need a second review we\u0027re gonna get one anyway right like so once the document goes into ITF last call you\u0027re gonna get a review boom so like it\u0027s not going to be an issue so if you want another additional one before you go through that\u0027s fine I can do a early request but it\u0027s not necessary if like if you think it\u0027s ready to go like it\u0027s just to avoid any late surprises that come up after like ITF last call so if say Cady comes and says like this is completely nuts and take it out right other than that like that you kind of avoid that going back through the process that\u0027s pretty much it if you\u0027re reasonably confident that this is like hiring staff we\u0027ll just take it forward I have a warm and fuzzy but let "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:22",
    "text": "me double-check with Rene that\u0027s actually your call so if you want like only review just like and if we do though although you know about actually what we want to do is at hanya Sequoia and give him a final ten on this document before we ask for let\u0027s go that\u0027s fine too that one I give is okay actually reflects his contribution and then the Bourbon water I don\u0027t have much to say I mean it\u0027s been very very stable for quite a bit of time and it\u0027s not surprised because this document started ten years ago it was initially merged into what became 6775 it was split as in the 6lowpan times there were already implementations at that time this permutation of in updated now they they follow the 6775 update document but we didn\u0027t get any thing to say I think Charlie you said you would do a in depth review of this document is yes you said that right and hopefully if we could find another review but after that we\u0027ll be ready for Aeschylus I think of it there\u0027s no change for a long time and it\u0027s been implemented tested stable so I don\u0027t know what to say anybody have any comments or observations on whether this document is ready for working a blessed call any objections cares to make an in-depth review of it because welcome let\u0027s call sometimes nobody comes back a few people if that could be a commitment by someone to go deep into this document just like Charlie how many people have read this document the background router document anybody willing to give it one last look before we declare it ready for working less call thank you okay please oh thank you yeah big we read for applicability and use cases "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:25",
    "text": "okay good afternoon my name is Jung Hwan home I present the sixth row or use case document okay okay oh this is or history of this document so you know we discussed from three years ago so in the last year this document was adapted as a working group document so in this time it is our so diversion so I want to emphasize the goal of this document so this document is to help 6 row you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:30",
    "text": "this medium I met on Subaru so I\u0027m asking is there any updated part so I\u0027m waiting he\u0027s always fun so if I get on youth update part then I will reflect it is in the next revision so Jupiter measure also help doses or similar and this kind of the Jupiter mesh can be used to math career or smart pretty and artistic or design space automation so in the blue on character is your edit one so I repeat a wired and where is print of six roading create analogies wireless except MSTP and ear see the selection or wires were virus twinkled layer technology is many depending on the requirement of the six row use cases and the characteristic of Wired virus technologies for example some use or sixth row use cases may require easy and equipment and a some six row use cases may require continuous source of power for a long lifetime let\u0027s get you bail so you\u0027re talking about use case and the use case is the end-to-end application so sometimes it takes more than one six low hop to implement a use case for instance on the smart grid you will you will get multi-hop you may in that case get different types of hops for instance it\u0027s often now commonplace to find 15-4 and PLC in parallel in the smart grid so she want to mention that okay thank you yeah so I\u0027m asking and Kerry Kerry is there so it\u0027s a happy to see this your text so let me know ok so in the appendix part we disguise some the sixth row use cases or that is the typical the base don\u0027t or each according career technology for example if we use the G wave or it can be you too can be used for smart home if we use the theory it can be used to some other one based interaction and if we use the tech really it can be used a smartphone similar to z-wave and if you use the MSTP we can use it district heating and if you use NFC it can utilize alternative secure transfer for the healthcare services if we use a Piercy can be used to smart grid and if we use though I prefer a to that cool it can used for industrial automation Wow this mic is really bad hey Robin can you back up one slide and this was on your summary sheet to your big grid that said that um you might have got this from Kerry but since Carrie\u0027s not here I\u0027ll sort of channel is this is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:31",
    "text": "humorously tiny subset of the capability for MSTP I mean MSTP is for all of building automation it\u0027s widely deployed in commercial building space so district heating is just makes me chuckle as being so tiny it really should be building automation being writ large okay thank you thank you for command we neither your comment back to you yeah so if you so I must say that we are not expert or they kind of think analogy so some also have some specific knowledge about each technology so if you have more information and if you think it is it needs to be updated so let us know that we can make a progress okay thank you another command and question any what our goals for say before London do you think it\u0027ll be ready and done I mean we\u0027ve been iterating for couple years maybe on this one so as I\u0027m thinking about this or so I want to discuss the other Wooster so in my personal opinion you have a kind of lady but I other author than and they a few concerting the tears then we can decide that I next there I don\u0027t think we need to be we don\u0027t want to be exhaustive we just want to have some example cases yeah yeah yeah yeah alright it seems that we have plenty already so that\u0027s why I\u0027m wondering what else can we do with it maybe it\u0027s almost ready so yeah maybe before London type thing do you think it\u0027s I never open again let me make it clear I\u0027m not attacking you as an author to be clairvoyant I don\u0027t expect you to know everything so I that is not not your fault at all you have way too many to keep track of so I will get with Carrie and we will give you some feedback on some better okay thank you thank you Oh Oh my name is Jung Hwan Choi from Korea and this is this slide every time I show you the first the kick of NFC introduction the same so it maybe everybody knows about this the information and this is history and status actually this time is 8 revision actually from the first revision there I would like to I would like to make it last cool and then we had a lot of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:33",
    "text": "reviews from the faith and Pascal and James and airsoft and so on so this time just we changes the IITs generations and and issues first one is about the IITs generation actually the gauge the Dave gave gave me that comment we need some paper ID so functional generation algorithm so I just put a new function about for that but James gave us that another comment this user in June we we have already RFC 72 17 there\u0027s a function 40 staple about random but stable iit generation function there so just we followed this function in these documents of just I put like this at the point one is one one thing is I want to point is that the bullet red wine there is a lot of parameters there just one is the net ID interface interface the paragraph there would be just one corresponding with the L or NFC link layer address the next changes and the issues from the Pascal I\u0027m sure if he gave me the comment the point is how does to device myth know when YT but to device meet how they can they know the who is the LP lol are so just I put these two new text here in the prop box but a before this meeting I just talked about Tabasco but this is new test but actually this new texted fully resolute to his comments so I argue to put the new test for test at least say you know meeting maybe I will produce a new version of this document and next no is there actually a to update the first one is I change the reference stay here and the second is that we had some paragraph about the conceit of the construction considerations but actually this paragraph does not need anymore because we reroute the other part here so our generation so which I just can lead of this whole paragraph and there\u0027s only speed this slide essentially about the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:34",
    "text": "review with the NFC Forum bag we had a lot of discuss about the with them and there\u0027s there are no feedback from the NFC Forum so I think the feedback from the NFC follow me stone and next step actually I just put just history of the document to review for walking Rosco is the first one is from Dave Stella thank you so much and the second one is of James II and POSCO also thank you and actually I just reserve this all of the leave comment and feedback but just I want to change some more from the Pascale comment additional comment so after that Emmy will be I think I\u0027m ready to the what\u0027s working Roscoe I believe thank you and comment any objections or comments on potentially going to work in the bless call okay so hello this is change on hope from Hawaii and today my topic is transmission of ipv6 packets of our Pearson networks so this is a second version of this draft and okay next page so the status of this job I present of sorry so what is PRC the PRC refers to the power line communication so pure C using the electric power lines for into an auto communications and now and Nala days it has been applied to the advanced metering infrastructure ma am I so about the status of this draft I present this draft first time in Chicago meeting and the received comments from submitter stefano and this area and well here the stefano and theory are they POC experts found out UT and then then based on these comments i update to the version wang and the present in prague and thanks to and Oscar for his comments and then I try to connect to both side of I Bui and itu-t and then today I\u0027m going to present the second vision actually it\u0027s just a quick update and to introduce the progress in connecting the Archean at UT and also some changes in this route so about the progress in collecting the Algerian at UT the reason why I trying to collect you is to sto is because they they are true POC standards Yemeni I believe 100 1.2 and I to teach or three are included in this drought so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "about the algebra side I have received consolidated they consolidated comments from the algebra II PLC standard committee last week and I will reflect these comments in in the next version and about ITT I had several email exchanges and telephone and calls with the this SD 1550 and is sg-15 q2 tinctures and finally I attend this group this group a meeting on December that you discuss is draft and to get Group opinion so and about the ADIZ there are two changes in this job why is the structure change in this version I combine the subsection 4.1 and 4.2 nemily in the separate sub sections for the 101 dot u and nano 3 I combined them together into a whole section I do this because there is no need to repeat some common information twice for example the status and address for the configuration on the same I just combine together into a whole section and if they end when there are some differences are just to put them in separate paragraphs so about the terminology I I the mass must not show show not I removed in this version this is to minimize the possible conflicts with these two stos and today after discuss with Gabrielle I will maybe change it back so so I think what we\u0027re looking at is maybe potentially going either as to what\u0027s potentially going in two different directions if we really don\u0027t want to have any conflicts that means what we have is an informational document in which case yeah having no compliance languages is fine it\u0027s actually expected so if that\u0027s so it\u0027s a question for to the working up to the authors into the work group is the goal of this document to pardon the redundancy to document what is being done elsewhere and that might be okay then yeah no compliance is okay and we\u0027ll have an informational document if we want a standards track document then presumably it better have some musts the to guarantee interoperability because we cannot assume that everybody who\u0027s going to read that document standards track if we decide to go that way we\u0027ll be able to implement in and up in our opera in an inner op do in our opera fashion without the necessary musts that take care of that of that aspect of a specification nor should we assume that they\u0027re going to have access to the ITU document or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:36",
    "text": "whatever so we have to assume that if we have a sender track talking it\u0027s an RFC with maybe some reference elsewhere but basically this defines the interoperability so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a very basic question are we documenting what is already done elsewhere and that might be the right approach if for example what is being done elsewhere already is working well and has enough implementations etc etc that we don\u0027t want to know which may be don\u0027t want to mess around with it because it\u0027s already working fine so why take something that I\u0027m broke so the reason I put this job in this working group is because there is I\u0027d say there is needed for a draft to be in this group to be to act as a guidance for the PS employment duties because in both our Chilean are to decide people are just focusing only on a bottom layers and they do have a appendix if to 6lowpan but after that they found well actually not all those functions defined in Section plan are useful tech they actually want to open door to for example they already have a segmentation on there too and then they also refer to the fragmentation in sixth repair and in that case actually this fragmentation is not useful at all so I think there should be a guidance for here and to when people about when people do the POC deployments they can find this raft and follow and follow this guidance yeah so this is my main purpose of this route you just said follow the guidance so that implies we need to have musts this is not just I mean yes it\u0027s mandatory I mean it\u0027s something that will guarantee interoperability that apparently it\u0027s not guaranteed with the level of detail that they currently have so then maybe this is standard check and in that case yes we would need to make sure that the proper masks and shawls or whatever get sprinkled throughout the document here now of course would be good of these things these musts and Charles and whatever actually reflect what they are or most of them may already be doing because there may be some confusion but most of them may be already are on the right track or have figured it out so it be it would be good to not you know without any good reason to not be part from that existing practice over there and I don\u0027t know the state of PLC in the industry it\u0027s more a question for you and okay thank you for your comments in chasm woman I don\u0027t think you you can do a six low specification by by just pointing to some 6lowpan documents and say it\u0027s all like this because Sixto pan is different from from another link layer so it looks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "like there are some gaps between the 6lowpan specification and the lower layer specifications in the two standards organizations and the current situation is that essentially implementers have to figured out and how do they figure it out of course they compare their implementation with one implementation they considered to be the leading implementation and then they are done that\u0027s not a standard so filling in this gap will require some normative statements some musts and must nuts and and so on and I think it would be good to do just that okay thank you so that\u0027s all thank you very much for your comments I don\u0027t think we\u0027re quite ready for adoption you know I think we need to figure out exactly and if it seems like it but if you confirm that what we want to do is actually write a standards track then you know at least have a first version that has a beginning of a spec with compliance language and everything then then we can think about adoption but I don\u0027t and also in the most important because we also want to see how your meeting with them goes yeah okay thank you hello good afternoon I am Sajjad finally registered in from London so this is our draft like I am I have presented his draft in Prague this transmission of IP was expected somewhere wireless body Jason\u0027s body area networks so it\u0027s over second draft we have britta\u0027d the draft with the feedback from authors and she sent us a detailed feedback so we will see today what changes we have applied the current state is like it\u0027s still informational but now we want to our intent is to make it to standard track and we are looking for feedback and suggestions this is a just a quick introduction for wireless wireless body area sensor network like we are we are using the standard I Tripoli aged zero 2.15 point six which was standardized in 2012 and it\u0027s still an active standard in I Triple E which is specifically for body area networks so in my previous presentation I have mentioned its scope why it is important its effectiveness in patient monitoring systems like they have specific bands from patients like medical implant Communication Service and they also take "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "care of the human tissues so no humps can occur due to some frequencies to amend issues here are some details are mentioned so what are the updates from the previous presentation like we have reduced the W band introductory part like in first off we have mentioned many things about introduction of the W bell like use cases and other stuff so we will after feedback we have reduced this and the second change like we have proposed adoption layer which we have mentioned it specification of ipv6 over W ban that list the main feature to adopt it for ipv6 I will show you the detail for this another change like we have added appendix another appendix with the name of Appendix II which describe the changes we have made in this second draft so here you can see you can see I have highlighted the updated version let me have I did the section 6 specification ybv 6 over development and we carefully we have added all the essential element for this section and we have reduced the upper section which was more in the last presentation and you can see in the inn we have added Appendix C which describe the changes details so just for a quick look like for the state stateless address auto-configuration 60 64-bit ID shall be drived utilizing 8-bit node address which is mentioned in Nigeria - 2 . 15.6 and 8-bit the Ben ID so we are using these two IDs to make our straightness of the configuration it is similarly a link local address it is generated I think most of you know how it will work like how we can the next 6 IP v6 link local address by appending 64 bits of double ID we have start look to the header compression things so initially we were figured out like because we are not focusing on mesh topologies so now each other who are we can you please go back to the previously before this one so here it will be better if we can form the iid in the using the banner ID can be moved to the last shot short bit short byte so as to improve the completion ratio that can be achieved with some other compression techniques like 6 low RH this will result in loss of compression protection in compression ratio okay thank you look at thank you take the ever so if I understand right this has all the same privacy issues at the NFC document had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:38",
    "text": "before that one changed and so you might look at using a similar solution as the NFC document that was just presented which is don\u0027t just pad use a hash thank you so for the compression we we have figured out two things because we are still not looking for the mesh topology so we have decided to use six slope and HCI its c1 that can be used and another option is static hydros compression techniques we will look for this or we can use this for 15.6 yeah this is a brief presentation and I mentioned changes we have made from our previous draft so any question comments or suggestions yeah I would second what Dave said I think we have our document that is privacy considerations I think any any future document coming out of this working group has to look at that at least reference it consider it and and have some language as to how that is being taken into consideration so please do look at that document and modify yours appropriately okay we looked at like for the privacy and these security things I typically 15.6 they have also some guidelines for them so we have also used them but we will also look for this document as well everyone refer it did you did you mention 15.6 committee have they looked at this how they commented what was the status there yeah I talked about like easier to see this neck so Bob is there anything you couldn\u0027t add is there been any communication with 15.6 the question is this basically uses 15.6 a go to dot 15.6 underlying technology and every time every time we do that then we talk with a committee in charge of that underlying technology to make sure that we\u0027re not conflicting in some way make sure hopefully more than that we\u0027re actually cooperating and coordinating so this depends on 802 dot 15.6 and the question is has that committee been made aware what is their opinion are we what is the status of that the Bob Haley I Triple E 802 a 15 chair actually we\u0027re in the process now of doing a number of things with 15.6 including getting it adopted as an iso/iec JTC 1/sc six standard and so so that\u0027s just about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:42",
    "text": "complete we have it\u0027s passed the ballot we have two comments to resolve one from Japan and one from China but it\u0027s a done deal basically on that so we\u0027re actually kind of this is very timely and you know we\u0027ve been in communication with each other and the fact that we\u0027re now trying to push it more broadly through a number of global SDOs I think this sort of this kind of discussion and additional work is is very fruitful okay so we should take it offline but yeah maybe we should coordinate how to get this you know in front of the committee [Music] okay and okay so yeah so I just wanted to give an update you just wanted to give an update on where we are with respect to the fragmentation issue last time in Prague we had a good half hour at least to discuss about fragmentation and it was clear after that there was a lot of interests for to go solve the problem fragmentation the case of route over not for the case of mesh under and furthermore it seemed likely that what good approach would be to form a design team so we finally did that we actually had a first meeting incipient meeting of the design team this ITF the current members as you can see our commas retain as the lead for the design team we have Carsten Rahul Pascal catalyst and Gauri as someone who represents a lot of the transport area background that would be useful in this discussion and I so first of all thanks to the design team members were agreeing to participate I think we should extend a special thanks to Thomas who flew over all the way here from Paris I didn\u0027t know ours was the only meeting but at least he dedicated a good time of the few hours he was here to us and then he got hopped on a plane back that\u0027s yeah thanks was that yeah right so okay that was cool anyway so definitely that we have passionate people interested people in the design team we feel like we have two good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:42",
    "text": "proposals carson and picasso represent sort of different extremes of the spectrum if you will and we think we have enough material so this item will go off and figure out you know with those two proposals it it seems like he that we should be able to come up with something at least an initial proposal to the working group by London is what what I heard okay Carson we still have to finish the proposal but the shape would you just said the one extreme would be to just document in an informational way how 6lowpan fragmentation can be used in a way that avoids many of the problems that people are experiencing so this is informational only and the other extreme would be to add protocol chat mechanism and of course get get more functionality that very but also require a change so that\u0027s what the design T has to look at the trade-offs figure out or maybe it\u0027s a great ad approach you\u0027re not so much looking into the trade-offs but it\u0027s just doing the two things so we we have something concrete we can talk about yes okay that\u0027s all we have for the agenda today anything else anybody it\u0027s open mic time so go at it if there\u0027s nothing else who\u0027s got the blue sheets blue sheets maybe they\u0027re back honestly I distributed I had at the beginning of the meeting on both sides so if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheet please do so and other than that I think we\u0027re done thanks very much oh and if you have any minutes that he took please send it to send them to the chairs that would help compiling for the final minutes thanks again "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:46",
    "text": "[Music] Oh abhi our effect on a manipulative a Victorian so much you "
  }
]