[
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:36",
    "text": "Looks like we're missing a chair. Yes. I'm remote. Hamlet chair. Let's do I wasn't expecting to run this completely remote."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:45",
    "text": "Alright. Since I don't see Sean over a 5 minute pass, I guess we Just get started. I'm gonna try to do this remote. She wasn't prepared to, but Just make the best out of it. Welcome to Wish Working Group Meeting."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "For IETF 118. Starting with the chair slides. Not well. Hopefully, everyone has seen it. As familiar with it, if you need to speak to the onboard team, there's a link how to contact them. If anyone is, like, is treating you What else? Not really well. And the harassment policies. So please be kind and respectful. Yeah. I think that's what this comes down to. Meeting tips. Oh, yeah. Lots of tools. If you have on-site, use the on set tool. If your remote use the the camera icon, hopefully, all the slides should be uploaded At least I see the chair slides and I see Surgess, slides. And agenda, just went over the blue sheets is, completely remotely now. Or online control module. Sorry. First, we're going to talk. Sergio's going to talk, and I'll give us an update on the wish ingests, signaling graft. Don't know, Sergio, if you managed to I think we're just going to talk about what's the current status of Webb. I think you indicated that Oh, good point, Murray. Thank you. Yes. Charter. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "at the last ATF, we, brought up the topic of, the charter, re chartering the workinggroup so that we can actually, work on the egress protocol and the conclusion was that people want to work on the egress part And, so we have, like, one draft, which which was proposed for a long time. And, So we declared rough consensus, and, we're just going to go ahead with that, proposal. Which is pretty brass. So hopefully we can all agree to stay focused when we start working on the egress part. The missing part for re chartering is the, the timeline for when the milestones, what the working group is going to deliver when so that should probably be part of the conversation when we talk about, web And, then the, there is, duping hopefully I'm pronouncing that correctly. Who's also going to present, as a draft about, the Whisp the active signaling protocol. Any agenda bitching? Nope. Okay. That's good. So then Oh, that's Change tech here. Okay. Here we go. Alright. So, Joe, Hi, love. I don't have the slides, for this. So this is, the questions is you're not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "not the you was going to do, after, the web and web dev. So Sorry. That's the wrong slides. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Sorry. Let's take that down. So, but starting September after after getting back from. So I have been having a hard time finding a time to work on the the feedback review by the different moderator reviews. But I have been reentering the last week on on on this one. And the work is still ongoing. I have Danson I completed the the review of, or at the incorporated, the the feedback that was provided by some other groups, and and all the other items are, opening GitHub for the pending ones. So, naturally, if you can share the the GitHub issues so far, that's where it gets tricky. Prepared for that. Really. No. In the In the chat. So Ah, okay. I think I got it. Now it's only about sharing. Ugh. Okay. No problem because I have not because I've never shared my screen from Chrome before on Mac"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "Give me a second. Apologies. Okay. Okay. Let's wait for Sean. Mhmm. Think that's hopefully going to be easier if you can open the kit up What's the there. Otherwise, I would have to restart here. I got it. Come on. I'm gonna accept it. I'm gonna do No. That's not the right one. This one. Wow. Apologies. Alright. Where do you want me to go? Mhmm. The width in this protocol. Alrighty. Mhmm. So you go to the issues. Okay. I mean, I have It's quite analytics. So I think that I have been able to, think that there was, like, 44 issues plus 1dpr. Spending, I've been able to close like, man. It was like it 19 or 20 hour hour then, and this is are the ones that are pending, pending, most of them are reviewing the the the text and and and just incorporate it the feedback if if they make sense, but there are some other one that are a big"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "a bit more, a bit more That that will require more, more, more interaction because for example, the the exact uses. And one that is, is more about, is not only tutorial or or issues. It is more about what should be in the spec or not because I have been I mean, it's carbon. I mean, there has been the and the reviews have been quite intense. On, I had got feedback in difference the restaurant sometimes. So for example, I have seen people reviewing comments that, that, or text that when is in there, it is not in their expertise, team for more clarifications and and and more tests as many things. But also, but when the test is on the but in Sally asking why you are just explaining this. This is already explaining this other SDC. So it is hard to to have a or to have both a feedback address at the same time, and deciding what is what is So do you do you have a rough idea which ones of the are more challenging? So probably the one which we were making more sense if we talk about it now. I think that probably the exact usage is the the the one that it is going to be more complex? At the bottom of your screen. Sean? Yeah. It's That one? No. Yeah. Sorry. Now you scrolled. Use again the button. It was going to be now it's at the top. Yeah. They're 141. Yep. This one. Uh-uh."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "Yep. So my general feeling about this, if we get comments from 2 directors that conflict, we put the 2 ADs in charge of directors and say, well, what do you want us to do? You can obviously be proactive if you if you think one way or the other inside with one. If we have a direct a direct conflict, we can get other people to help deviate in that dispute? It's not typically on the same, on the same text. But, I mean, as for example, this I have been receiving comments about And then for example, if people are not used to ice, so as requiring to add more tests about understanding how to use size, something like that. But also on the same times, I've received their, the FTP and why are we explaining how to use attacks when it is over the SD3 documents. Is this kind of a just the kind of the the canal idea what what should be in the document versus what should not be So I think that I going to try to or at least say what that's what I also answered today in that it was to the general review that is that I will try to, add clarifications based on the target audience of this specification, So probably, if the our goal is to have more usage in in a stream in probably what we want to have is or we require some, WebRTC knowledge as a prerequisite of reading the documents so we don't obtain or in a sense, Yeah. For example, how WebRTC works in the title and all, and and also some of things are are we can be less consist. And I would like I'm not sure exactly how to track this, this this, this is a safety issue because a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "yes, it is a place, a series 5 in the STP documents. But I feel that if we're gonna explain how to use it in the in the spec I don't think that the target audience of this document will get it right. I mean, because I'm not sure if I will get it right as far reading the STTP specs. So I decided it is a problem of myself because it is ICP is my main area of expertise, but I feel that even if we are redundant, and let them find obviously trying to not be, conflicting with specification, but I think that it will be important to still be verbose about what do we want implementation to do even if it is already specified in someone else? So so, Sergio, I think when we get comments from a director, we're perfectly don't have to do everything they say. We can obviously push back. So we have a strong feeling about how this is. We'll leave it in and see if they're if if if that must stay or not, Mhmm. Now I think that this I think that this is the only, probably the one that I could have some hard time finding the best answer for this the other ones are mostly editorial. And, I mean, it requires a lot of time, but it will it's fine trying to find the was working, but it does not change much. The speed of the of the of of the it doesn't change much day and the the draft. Ordered to what it needs to be, but this one is is a bit more is more is more complicated to to be fulfilled. And just in general, like, my my thoughts on, like, I think we should basically referenced other ROCs wherever applicable, I mean, I mean, maybe not with explicitly telling people like, hey. Go read this ROC first before continuing reading. We should probably avoid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "trying to explain etext or ice or any of that stuff because if we duplicate that kind of language, then it's only going to cause us problems Yep. But if we add more language saying specifically, like, how to use pet and how what like, if this happens, then you need to do this or that. As a guidance for the implementers. I think that that make perfect sense to me. Mhmm. So this is, Nayan, this is, and I don't expect to to have it on a server right now because and also for this issue. So but it is I think that it is the only the only one that police going to cost issues. And I have another question about a different one that was Is it on this one, Julius? Now it's it's in But it's Julius as a question. So, Julius, let's grab a check. So I've updated recently my implementation of with the server side to fit the latest version of the draft. It was really easy sailing. All went well. Everything was clear. Except for one part, which I did struggle with. And finally, I gave up because it was done in my copious free time, and that was the ice restart parties. So I know that the ADs are annoying. ADs are annoying because their job And, but in this particular case, I So I think a lot of implementers would be grateful. If you could take the time to rework and to try to clarify a little bit the parts at the out ice restarts. I'm seeing that I trust you. I'm sure it's complete. It's just us being stupid. But if you can deal with us, it's stupid people, and help us a little bit with this part. That will be very appreciated. Yeah. And this is probably the then the word that is going to to require most most rewriting, and I will try to get a a new version 1. Okay. Which is the next one?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Because if you go back, it's the 151 151. So so this is, the only one is that I mean, that says review from from Janet saying that, in searching for point 2, we are standing the SDP RPC. So we should mark the document that, about extending the the RPC So I don't know first if we need to do it. And second, if we need to do it, how to do it. if we are updating what's in RCA442, then So probably need to add a header field to the document, like, the structure, right, and put updates 8442 And then somewhere in the intro, you can say which section is being updated and by what section in this document, and that's usually sufficient to get through the ISG. Mhmm. Yes. We Yeah. What we are changing the the the the part of the the certainly referring to is when we allow the the web clients to send a set of a active attribute instead of a at pass, it is mandated by the RFC 8842. That we can either decide to to keep it and and update and decide if we need to extend the the RFC 8842 or just remove it completely to avoid having this complication. No. I I I mean, I personally would say, like, we should say that like, I mean, basically, we're updating 88 for 2 And then there's, Sean was just saying, like, put the sentence somewhere saying that we make it more strict because we're not getting backwards compatibility, which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "8842, was intended, to be dealing with. That's where they have active passive in Notem accommodate both scenarios. Which is irrelevant to us. I think So I think that should I think that should be the easier That's what works. From my perspective. Okay. So but when when submitting the draft, and we don't need I don't need mark it any worse. It's just, it's just test in the RTC. You need to, put it at the, in in the headers, basically, which which RCs this, document is updating, which is I mean, we're not like essentially updating it in the sense of like a new version. It's only for the specific use case of which first. I think still since we're, like, changing the, the default I think that's probably the right thing. But but, you know, if I need to add any markdown, Heder or something like that? We can figure that. Yep. We can figure that out. If you get if you get the text to put in the document, I can make sure the markdown is correct. Okay. That would be all that's needed. Yeah. If you just tag me in the in the PR, I can make sure to to add it in regarding help with, the, or to help on these steps, I have one PR, that it is the that, you go to the pre request. That it is It's huge. I mean, this has a lot of Minor changes to the atrial changes. But, I'm not sure if I don't think that it changed anything, but it will be right if, if it could be reviewed, not online right now, but today or tomorrow so I can mark it and and start that in the new all the, and start completing all the other issues on top of this. What I think when all these issues are completed, I think that what we should do is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "call for another working group last call. Mean, I was as this that's what I have done another graph that has so many changes so we can make a final review of everything again. I before sending it back to to another ISG review. I think that's probably fair with the number of, issues and pull requests there. We can shorten it or not. It's up to us. I would probably just go with 2 weeks because I don't know that there's a burning. We're heading into the holiday season. To make, like, 2 weeks or 3 weeks or 4 weeks isn't really gonna Like, the world's not gonna end. Right? So I'm hoping hoping we can get someone that will offer to review this pull request in the next day or 2. What you say? Like, I I I will I will definitely review it within, before the end of the week. Okay. Yeah. I mean That'd be great. Because then it would be it would be good if we could start landing all of these and closing off all the issues. And then at the end of all that, do another working group last call. That makes sense. It it covers it makes it easier for us and the AT's as well. Yeah. So I I hope that, with all the changes that will be able to pass the depending on reviews. But it will take, still a bit of time until I have the the final version. Hopefully, no, not 3 3 months as He has to make to to get to this state, but, hopefully, in 1 week or something like that, I I would able to have the the final version. Okay. Great. So I guess, we'll jump back into the agenda. How far did we get? Did we go over the working group charter to changes that we were waiting on? I did I mean, I went briefly over it during the agenda slides specifically. Okay. So I guess the only thing that I just wanna make sure we did is that we actually got dates for the web. Submission to the IST where I, where we'll think we'll be through working group last call. I I I I suggest it's covering that when we talk about web, basically, Okay. Alright. Cool. We can do that. Alright. Let me stop sharing this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "Alright. Did you send web slides? No. I have been focused at the intent to fix a alegious I think it's applied for his life. So, if we don't have web slides, that's okay. There's a link to the draft in there. I think really the important part is apparently, the ISG, you have to give them a list of deliverables that you're gonna provide and and a win. And so I kind of asked her Joe the scenes that I wanna see what the working group thinks about this is that we're we'd be shooting to basically be done with that document by the end of 2024. I'm saying December of 2024. To be done with work with the deliberations within the working group and through working group last call. And then we would give it to whoever our area directors at the time for IITF last call. Does that sound Plausible. Well, alright. So this is John and said it's as plausible as deadlines ever are because I think most of the time, the dates and the charter are aspirational. And so if you're if you're within a year, you're kinda good. So I think, like, a year is is a good enough date to get in there to get us rechartered so we can adopt the work and move on, which is the the point. Right? So if everybody's good with that, and I don't see any but he running to the microphone or making a longer queue. I'll make sure to put 2024 in the charter checks that we have and make sure Murray gets it and so that he can skip process off, hopefully, before the end of the week to get the recharter process started. Officially. We have the right tax that was just the one thing we're waiting So, alright, if, did you have anything else that you wanted to talk about with WIP? If you've been focused mostly on WIP that it seems. Yeah. Well, with web web web, what I think that what I need to do is update a new another drop just to have a new date and to avoid to have it despite and then we'll we'll have the recharger. We can adopt it and we hopefully"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "we can discuss about it in a in the next IETF meeting when we have a finalized whip Right. Because, I mean, I I think the plan is we're gonna get rechartered we are gonna adopt the working group that that draft. We don't need to do a working group adoption call. For any other draft because no one else has showed up with another web. Draft that's gonna compete with it so we can just get going as quickly as possible. Since the chair has introduced a lot of delay. So, again, apologies. So Okay? So now I think we're on to our last Master. Yep. Go ahead, Jonathan. I mean, I suspect the answer to this is yes, but Sergio, your plan is to after you've done all the WIP edits, transferred those over to webs. And so it was a copy of that draft No. Yeah. We'll we'll actually, we'll transfer the repo over as well. We'll do the whole official thing. So it looks Yep. But Yeah. But Jonathan, I I will do it after it is a adopted, not a so I I So I think that it is better to add to that as it is to just to because it can take me a bit of time to move all the changes, especially with the latest reviews. So I would prefer to first adopt it and then a back port let changes from whip. Alright. So now we have another presentation, which is a little different. Al, I think it depends. You ought to be able to drive this. Are you able to change the slide? Let me try. Yeah. Let me see. Can just say next slide and I'll hit the button. Okay? Okay. Okay. So, so this this last, okay. This proposal, we call that WebRDC, it AP interactive sickling protocol. Actually,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Shank, can you move to the next nice Okay. So so this presentation will, basically two parts The first part is about the use cases. The second part is the, protocol proposal. So the 1st apart, So, so in this slide is is, interactive new webcast use cases. So here we have a broadcaster. And then we have, this that the reason, receive the, streaming from the broadcaster. And there is a media streaming control server, and there is server for, media streaming working. Which could be provided by a third party So in in the first step is that the broadcaster in just a media stream. So think the working group, we already covered this, like, the currently, the booking group draft ingesting protocol, under review. So I think this second learning we already defined here. And then and there is another, use cases is that, the audience for example, there may be one audience who is connected with the broadcaster and want to interactive Please the broadcaster So Next slide, please. Okay. So the step 2 as mentioned earlier, a little bit, the audience want to interactivates the broadcaster So, So, the the problem here is that, the other all the other audience needed to see and they're the March does stream,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "with the broadcaster and who is want to connect with the broadcaster. So that is, a scenario. Okay. Next slide, please. Okay. So then in step 3, the media stream closed server, send a second loading, for, stream merging. So just signaling actually is, from is is sent from the media A streaming control server then, is, to the real time media communication network sober for media streaming merging. So next, please. Hold on. There you go. Okay. Thank you, Sean. So the server that, you search for, media stream merging, will actually, merged the two screens. From which is the broadcaster and audience connected with broadcaster. So the two stream will merge that together to form, one screen and then ingest it to the real time, media communication network. Next month, please. Okay. So step cloud, number of file. That is another willing. This one is used to the, to indicate to, to lessen real time media communication network to to the Sobeach. Switch the stream, switch the audience stream. Next month, please. Okay. So then the, the stream will be switched from originally, the stream is is only the broadcaster stream, So after this signaling, the audience will receive"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "the emerged, stream, So so the audience will see the picture that the video that both have the broadcaster and have the audience connected. Visible cost. Sir, Excellent. Please. Okay. So this picture shows the, signal procedure. As I, I think I already covered the steps. Here. So I've repeat step by step here. If you Just so you can, look the details, from the draft Okay. Next slide, please. Okay. The next next part actually is the signal lane the is, very much similar as, a interesting Though e, e testing, in this working group. Actually, I I have, had a offline this service, with circle in September. Are we discussed the idea, a little bit, actually, we It's draft I have 4 proposals, 4 significant proposals. The last one actually is very much similar as as a, aggression, addressing, graft. Drafted. Not, Sego introduce, the so so the first one is but the first one is ticket link for merging. 2 streams. Basically, in the second learning, is the use of for the control server to, indicate there there are two streams that needed to be merged together So we, in this signaling, they they have, some, you know, sections that indicate to the mid the media ID and media URL and other parameters. And the the, then use the secondary"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "the, media server can merge 2 stream. To form 1, bandstream that used, for the broadcaster and the interactive audience. Okay. The next slide space the second the name that used to, switch the streams of for example, this is used as as use cases introduced earlier. When the stream is merged, the network needed to tell the, the receiver, the audience they need to, switch the stream. With this new, Mooresist team, So so that is the purpose of this signaling. And in this signaling, it has, some, meters, for example, the media, on the destination media. And they'll have media ID and URL and other parameters. Okay. Next slide, please. The next one is the grabbing similar link this is not covered in the use cases, but, it's used for some, use cases, some scenario for example, when the a network you know, the signal is not very good. The network can you know, let let the stream to change Streaming note, So it will it has the permitters. For example, the media ID And at the URL, other informations, and there is also error codes to indicate Kate, but it's a for for this you know, network, even the changing, for example, maybe in serious, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "that caused the the network, quality degree and their, also have other reasons. So Here are these, 3 types of reasons here. Okay. Next slide, please. Okay. The last one is as I I just mentioned earlier is, very much similar as to go, So it goes, egressin dropped So it's, basically, it's used to pull, Stream, for to the audience. So it has some, parameters such as the media URL. And other things Okay. So that is, the proposal draft, So, is there any comments and feedback Thank you very much. Julius, go ahead, please. So Could you please clarify? So I have two questions actually. First one is in your examples, the media u the URLs are those HTTP URLs or web and web URLs or something else. What protocol do you speak on those URLs? Okay. So this this URL is I in in this draft is used HTTP So it's just an HTTP stream. it is it quick or what? Is Stream endpoints. Okay. So the URL is, use the HTTP, but the stream, I think, it can support different kind of streams, for example, WebRDC and the other streams. So how does the so how does the receiver of this message determine which protocol it's supposed to speak Okay. So Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "That's a good point. So, in the current for the I I just think the, the the network can deal with this this kind of a logic, it can then, for example, it can determine, what kind of, streaming protocol, it's support. And the the, Glant, what kind of, streaming protocol So they can choose the one that's the, both the client and Somerset support to you know, for the communication but I think there are maybe other ways, for example, to understand your end. Sir, So is there some sort of out of NAND discovery? How do you discover proper call. For example, the server can It's it's not specified in in this draft. But there should be some function in the not Brooke. In the streaming network set, to determine, dreaming protocol you should use. It's not included in this, in this draft. But I think if it's a necessary, we can considering to you know, to put that party. The signaling protocol. For example, it's about defining, That answered my question. Thank you. Okay. The other question, there is one use case. Perhaps I missed it, but I didn't see it. There is one use case that I'm concerned with. The use case where the number of streams you want to send to the audience varies. And that's a tricky one. How do you communicate to the audience the information that right now, you have been receiving 2 streams And now I want you to fetch a third stream. Okay. So if you tell me that's not one of your use cases, that's fine. I'm just mentioning that that's a use case that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "I am concerned about Okay. I'm not sure whether this is This is the, use cases that you are roughing, but I I want to repeat, whatever but I want to describe in this draft. So there is a scenario that, there is a a audience 1 or 2 interactive with interactive. For example, want to ask you questions, with the broadcaster and then I'm so sorry if I interrupt you, but that's not that I that I didn't understand. The case is the broadcaster is currently so the broadcaster is treatment their webcam. And at some point, they decide to Stay with the webcam. And in addition to the webcam, Stream, say, a screen share. So number of streams that the audience is receiving, switch from one stream, just the webcam, to two streams the webcam, and the screen share. And you need to notify the audience that they need to fetch a second stream. Is that something you're taking into account? I mean, no is is No. No. Yeah. No. This is not in this, in this document. Yeah. But I think that you're you're interested in Thank you very much for your comments. Okay, Timothy. I wasn't sure if you wanted to get if you got in and then got out, I'll get out. Yeah. Yeah. So I just wanted to say, I think that I wanted to back up what Julius saying. I think it would be very interesting to have, I can add stream as well as a merge stream and and and a replace stream. It it feels like a natural additional operation and I I mean, you know, it won't always work, of course, because there may not be, you know, resources to do."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "Add infinite streams, but I think it's it would be a useful, useful feature to our Alrighty. Oh, that was the last slide. Okay. So I guess My question here is what we're gonna do with this draft. Were you just looking to get were you looking to get comments, primarily just comments? I I think I I have a 2 proposals. Maybe for our group for discussion. The first one is that in this full, signaling proposals, the last one I think is very much like, the egress draft. Draft. Which circle currently is working on, and I have, I had a offline detection base ago in September, and I think if if he agree and the the working group agree, we can I can put this part into that draft and I'm I'm working together That is one proposal, for for discussion in this And the second one is for the other of the draft I I think, of course, in this group, there there there indeed some, maybe, have had some interest to working on that? I'm just, wondering whether this is in the scope of the new charter, or is there any interest to extend the charter to include that. Thank you. Sergio? Yep. My first question is not about the technical details of the or or the use cases why do you feel that we need a stand up protocol for this? Because you since at at least until now for web and web"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "we have, the first thing that we have tried to make is saying why we, would benefit of having one there. Protocol implemented in IETF versus having having custom or proprietary protocols implementing the our different technologies. So I think that what I would like to first understand is how do you feel that having the this kind of protocol, will allow things that are not commonly, able or to to be done today, or how can it be reused about different service? Because may seem that it is a bit to very services specific. So not necessarily how how worth is therefore of specifying something that it is interoperable. If only if no one is going to to interoperate it with. And the second part is for the for this functionality is that you feel that they are not available in web that we recommend to before doing the the put in a maple request of or anything like that in the in the draft, I will recommend you to to highlight the the features in the in the mailing list so we can commend it and and as per your day and the work of having to write the document on the PRs and before we try to get an agreement, if it is interested or not. Sorry. My my network was just a token. But I think I got your point. So go, To answer your question, I think why we need these standards. I think first of all, first of all, this this use case is, you know, is really, you know, from the real deployment scenario."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "And that is a very, popular, scenario such we are currently fitting as Alibaba Croft plout, cloud, and to centralize this, it will just select the charter mentioned it will facilitate the interoperability between the developers, and that the media transmission network and the 3rd party and the ecosystem. So So that is why I think is it is important so I bring this idea to this working group So I I just want to, you know, ask Eric, but because at of course, discussing the email list, we we can do that, but, I think because here is the, face to face meeting, and everybody is here. I just want together move feedback and to see whether there is the interest to work on this. Guilt some the Yeah. Just as a individual contributor, similar to what surgery was saying, like, I'm I'm having a hard time to to see why, like, the for me, the difference between like, the the the other drafts we have, like, weapon, which this is about, like, basically allowing people to build clients independently of the, the server side, like the broadcast or whatever server they use in the background. So you can use can mix different client implementations with different server implementations. Where your draft sounds to me pretty, like, service specific, like, some kind of whatever spots broadcaster or whatever wants to support in his client that the user can click a button or whatever and and say, like, I want to, or, like, that's broadcaster wants to click a button and switch over to this other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "camera or just other audio stream or wants to merge, like, some streams or whatever, which seems to me, pretty, specific to whatever that service needs. So, like, I don't see why this would need to be implemented in a in a standardized way so that the broadcaster could use server from one vendor and the client from another vendor. I think that's my biggest problem for this, with this proposal here. Maybe I'm I'm just missing something here. Okay. Yes. May I through. Yep. To reply all your your comments. Okay. Go ahead. So, actually, there there is, a scenario that the, media server on the control server is provided by third party It's not from the, media communication network So the media communication network could be provided by 1 cloud provider, for example, by, in our case, is Alibaba Cloud. And we work with, our client to deploy their service in our cloud. So, the then the, control server sometimes it's is deployed by, Alibaba Cloud but the media server is deployed by our client. So then they'll they'll they will need interoperability for the control server. For the immediate server to understand what the second name of the Chintrocell that is the use cases. And I do see This deployment use cases is not only for Alibaba Cloud. It's also a valid scenario for other clouds providers. Both in China and in in the world. I think that is that is important for the industry. To send a standardized this. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "Go ahead. So I don't necessarily agree with sir, Neil I think that There is some value to having control protocol that are vendor independent. That it would be really good if we could have if a broadcaster could switch providers and not change their setup they are a client. The problem I see is a little bit different. I think that the reason why search has been so successful. Was swept at least is that the protocol was very clearly circumscribed, Circular has resisted having features that was possible because there was a minimal subset of features that we all agreed with. In grasp, of a stream as well defined. So here, I would see a lot of value but I think I find it difficult that we would all agree on a common set of features that are standard controlled protocol. Would, would, would, provide So either we end up with a protocol that suits nobody because the set of features is very specific or we end with protocol with dozens of optional fee with all feature being basically optional. We know how that ends. So, I I mean, I think it is something that we need. But I would like to first see whether the working group can agree on a common set of features for such a propical and to be frank with you I doubt we'll be able to agree. I don't want to be pessimistic. I don't want to discourage you. But I mean, you'll be heard in cats. Seanhood? Yeah, sort of somewhat relatedly, Jonathan Monics, mean, my concern is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "that I don't feel like the IETF has of expertise in video production And so I don't think we have the right expertise to know what the features should be And sort of relatedly, I guess my question is, are there do you have actual interest from the people produce these things that they would wanna implement these APIs as opposed to just you would like it. You would like it if they pre implemented the APIs because We don't have commitment from the people who are manufacturing these servers just writing a spec and saying, I wish you would implement this is not Unfortunately, good use of anybody's time. Okay. So, just a quick comments. I think I do have, is since this is valid use cases, you know, you know, from our perspective, And I have, I think, it is a very good open, standardization organization here we can, you know, invite to active receipts here to to, work together to standardize this. I I think the because idea of this it's is such a open, a deal. It's easily to gather the interest, industry parties to, looks again next year. Timothy? Yeah. Tim Tim Pampers and pipe. I'm So I've been tabling in in the kind of blur into broadcast. I think we're moving increasingly like, the distinction about whether we do broadcast or not is getting more and more blurred. So I think we need to understand this stuff and I think it I don't like the idea of, well, it's not an IETF expertise. It's going to be whether it is or not at the moment. It's gonna be. So, I kind of support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "this effort. And I think there are actually, interesting use cases on much smaller, scale production. I mean, it it would be really interesting to hear from Lorenzo, for example, who, whether any of this applies to something that MeTech goes doing. Because it seems to me that this is exactly the sort of thing. VTech is already doing internally with its own proprietary protocols, And so it feels like something that we could easily I we do have my point, I guess, is that we do have expertise, and I think we do have some requirements. In, in this space, already. We just don't necessarily see it that way. Okay. Neil's? Maybe after after hearing, like, some other folks here in in this discussion I am wondering if the address is a is another idea if this is almost like a another working group, which is We're just doing its work based on Wishing web once Wishing web are done, kind of like I don't know. Maybe that's that would actually fit better. Like, an open open question through the audience rather than, like, a concrete proposal. Right. So that that's a little bit where I was going. Like, if there's clearly some parts that look like it, that a WEP, WHEP, right, we should definitely do PRs to get them in WP because that's not done. That's being worked on. For everything else. It's not I I think it's probably not in scope. So then we'd have to have that debate. And that's almost, unfortunately, like, going back dispatch to saying, like, hey. We have get wishing we have WAP, and now we wanna do WISP Right? Like, what do do we do we decide to extend? Because my concern is that there's, like, seven people in here. 3 are looking at the screens. Everyone else is checking their email. Feels like it's a pretty big decision to make with that number of people to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "adopt new work essentially. Because I definitely wanna see us get WHEP done. 1st. So let's take that offline since we're basically at a time, unfortunately. But definitely for the parts that are, you know, WHEP related, feel free to submit PRs. You can search here on the working group. We can work out what what gets in and what doesn't, and then we can go from there. And, we can try to circle back with you, as chairs. Does that sound about right, Niels? Okay. Thank you very much. Yeah. I think that sounds good to me. Alright. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Again, apologies for being quick tardy. Have a great day and the rest of the IETF. Thank you. Alright. Alright. Let me get that message soon. Sean, just for for your reference, I I did the note taking. I forgot to actually for note taking, but wrote on some notes. Awesome, sir. I'll I'll take care of getting"
  }
]
