[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "we have to stop working good hello everyone we are going to start um hello everyone welcome to join the office area and upset WG meeting please note this session is being recorded and the note well please make sure you understand those important legal issues basically all your contributions need to follow the item rules and here are some tips and firstly please log in the online section and use metair code to join the the mic queue and please wear your mask on this activity speaking here are some resource for idea4115 and let's go to the first session uh welcome to the off sale working group it's chaired by Kieran and Joe and Hank and before we really start we need the um subscriber and the minutes taker thank you very much okay we can start and here is the working Google status after iotf 114 the L2 LM model was published as the RFC 9291 and congratulations to the authors and the contributors and there are six drafts submitted to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "isg for publication um actually question two I think you Rob on um I got pinged on the TLs TM the SNMP um transport model update I just assumed that it's working through your queue um for what will be sent upwards to the isg uh yes I think I I'm trying to think where I am the docs I think I've um currently reviewing the yes from axis one I think so I think that one is next on the list after that so so it'd be after this it effort I get to review it but hopefully it shouldn't be that far thanks so there are um it's a small uh in addition to the drafts for Michael uh who was asking for a working group last call but we are missing some of the uh first early previews there I think we will go through them and then uh to uh working Google that's called on the uh liability in this and such uh later this year but that's all conditions on other drafts so add encrypted DNS or add encrypted DNS um this is post uh technically I need to close the last call on this there was some additional uh an additional draft of kind of Abyss to 4 4014 was added here I was kind of hoping we'd get some some more reviews of that but I'm going to now talk to the DHC group because they've been heavily involved in this to see if they might want to Shep or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "someone there might want to Shepherd this but I think it's in a good place right now unless someone wants to State otherwise foreign agenda we have a very full agenda so um the speakers please control your time and we go the first one the model update you can have slides that's not the right slides do you want me to do those ones I propose that they're both being uploaded a new deck I can just talk without slides they're loading uh I have two documents on mud one of them is mud acceptable urls and the other one is about DNS considerations for mud um the acceptable URLs has been through I think is pretty non-controversial it updates RFC 8520 because it changes some of the processing rules for uh at least one of the the attributes in the mud file um and there's a nice slide that explains it in one slide um and the document is essentially it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "been around for more than a year um it's had some various amounts of review not a lot of deep review at this point um but as as far as I'm concerned is ready for working group last call the other document is uh DNS considerations for mud and that has had a couple of uh well at least one fairly deep review from Ben Schwartz um and his opinion is that we're doing it all wrong um and specifically we the internet um and we should be using socks V5 so that we can see uh so that firewalls can see the DNS requests the the URLs um with the DNS name in them and therefore can apply um name-based uh filtering and mud is name-based filtering in the end um so I think that's an interesting suggestion I don't have the power to make it so in this document um it would revise 8520 um and well practically all the rfcs that we've published in the past 10 years so I don't think it's practical um and given that I don't find it a very useful thing to tell us um so the biggest thing with the DNS situation is that we basically have to make sure that iot devices don't bypass the local DNS uh it's okay if they use Doh or dot or whatever doq as long as they ask the same server that the mud controller would ask um in the very in the the degenerate case of a home network with a single router uh that means that that essentially home devices should talk to the home router to ask for DNS questions they should not talk to 8844 or anything else and the home router enforcing the mud should uh have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "a cache of DNS requests and should do that and that's really the advice it's as simple as that um use local DNS that's about it and that that document is has had much more review and much more discussion and is also I think ready for working group Law School any questions sorry I'll just run away and give you as much time as you like Doc no anybody oh tears hi Michael um I don't agree with Ben's comment that if you have to install root certificates on every iot device that's gonna be quiet to intrusive I think DNS filtering is the right way to do it and we haven't figured out how to do root search installation on home iot devices so it's pretty easy for us to filter TNS traffic and we are already working on deploying uh encrypted DNS forwarders on home routers yeah so with TNR and DDR it's pretty easy for uh endpoints to discover the encrypted DNS forwarders and home routers right and home routers can enforce filtering based on the mud policy so it makes life lot easier and uh I don't think the proxy approach is Deployable at least in home routers thanks um and and I'll just say this there's nothing against encrypted DNS it's just it's that in right now encrypted DNS is associated with off-site DNS and there's no reason for that to be the case except that that's how it's been deployed so go do that from Firefox and chrome and whatever to your heart's content but don't don't have your iot devices do that thanks so um this is a comment from Hank as a chair I was mentioning that one of the map-based ideas that needed some a little review of the DNS consideration one definitely is not the one I think that has passed actually a lot of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "conversations such as timing thing a little bit without any this sense we could go into uh working last call for that we acceptable ul's for the one actually that I think is controversial yeah but the um looking to get this one and then go from there okay let's go to the next to ipfix related proposals good morning everybody next slide please so regarding the srv6 SRH ipfix draft received various comments from Spring obviously WG and also some of that natural candles which are working on implementation we addressed all open issued and also verified with Ayana how to manage the SRH Flex IPv6 and the SRH segment endpoint Behavior registry the outcome was instead of listing them directly in the in the document we opted for having a reference instead to the segment routing registry we expanded the terminology section to have a Consolidated view on on the terms which we inhibited inherited from various rfcs uh in the active segment IPv6 type we added the the segment routing policy as in yet as another protocol and in the operational consideration sections we're describing also now how to deal with uh if you have more than one segment routing header"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "we collected a template and in the example section and added the implementation status section where we're describing uh the two implementation one and open source and the closed suit Source implementation and also a data collection implementation sorry yeah okay got it sorry so and also a data collection implementation where we do the segment list section decomposition this vehicle you have on okay okay next slide please so this is the open open source implementation in VPP versus mentioning too we did tested that in the ITF hackathon uh last weekend next slide please uh so here just to give context so uh the the SRH pad had a part that's the uh on the on the picture the the Violet part uh basically it complements uh the so-called provider data playing part where we can actually see to which PE which we are forwarding and also the the customer data playing part where we actually see uh the the communication on the customer side and here a note it's important that the order matters since we have two times IPv6 and this is described in RFC 7011 next slide please these are the fields which are in VPP now exposed next slide please this is the um laptopology we used for the interoperability testing between Huawei"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "and Cisco where we have two Cisco PE devices and six Huawei Huawei pmpe devices and with it in probability testing next slide please these are the fields we are exposing uh in Huawei and they are according to the a12 template record described in the document next slide please and here an example query then uh with the exposed data so we can actually now uh select the the traffic engineer passed in the segment list section we can see or a bit on basically thanks to the segments left basically the order of the forwarding throughout the core and we can see on each segment left on basically uh which was the active segment we are forwarding next to next slide please so uh the the open source running code has been published on GitHub the first commercial commercial implementation will be in q1 and Q3 2023 and we are asking the working group whatever they believe the document is in stable state so that we can request the early code pointer location that repeat exercise are you still any comments yeah specifically um Thomas you and I we emailed back and forth on that last Point um how many people have read this document I guess I could do a poll that show of hands were a few um it would be good to get I'll ask this question officially on the list because I I do want to follow up you you've done the implementation here in the hackathon um but we need some feedback from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "working group as to whether or not they believed it's stable and then we can go to the the 80s and and see if we can request that code point for you so we'll do that in short order after after 1 15. sure perfect thanks quinoa class so I think the Ayanna is one thing right by the way we validate it with Ayana that they're fine with uh the latest version which actually Four and actually this the trees Mansion uh by Thomas so from a process point of view I'm not sure what else we could be doing to interrupt feedback from Ayana Etc so Ayana earlier occasion is one thing but uh you know you can ask a question because it could go to last call directly uh you know we got feedback from the spring looking group from everybody I'm not sure what else you could be doing yep and and we can we we can put it up for uh last call as well thank you then on the second top uh draft regarding the own past delay measurement in ipfix next slide please here just as a smaller refresher uh ipfix currently is lacking the ability to export uh on path delay measured metrics next slide please and here uh just to highlight the importance that not only we need to export the the delay Matrix itself we also need to give those delay delay Matrix context we need to understand uh over which interfaces and nodes and also which forwarding paths next stops"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "and so on were being used uh that gives us context in terms of delay next slide please so the current status uh we received feedback in ITF 114 regarding the the terminology inbound versus on-pass Telemetry so we adjusted that in the draft and also we received from tianagan uh some feedback up regarding the terminology using iom transient encapsulation node versus Transit and encapsulation node next slide please uh do you still recognize the problem statement uh we are uh want to measure a network operator want to delay measure delays uh we want to do that at the highest scale for to get a statistical Network delay view uh the I ipfix entries defined in the document of independent how the delay is being method in the network and currently we have two vendors which are validating technical feasibilities also showing interest and that the next ITF hackathon we will show also an implementation in fdio VPP that's all on that document any questions remarks comments how many people have read in the room how many people read this one oh well pretty much a good set um so we will uh conduct the call for adoption formally um I'll add that to the action item list after 1 15. we'll see what the working group feels on the list thanks excellent thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "foreign yeah so the the main issue here is that the um the ipfix registry is pointing to you to um um an old RFC which is which is defined the um bitsy bits um that was already I would say duplicated by by the ATF in other recent RFC so there's a deviation from the current ipfix registry versus the one which is mentioned in my TCP so this is something which is really I would say problematic from the interoperability and the other issue we have with that RFC is that the current word you know for in the draft about some of the result which is that the it is it is a little bit weak and this is really uh problematic in case we we have for example for the the attack that are using some of the flag Bits And if you don't export what you are observing there is a problem in analyzing the the issues on the controller side next slide please so the fixes the fixes are really straightforward to remove the any mention of the rfcs when we we are defining the the distribute control bits just point to the iterative um registry for the TCP and then we are done so we simplify the way we are maintaining the ipvx themselves and the other one is that for the um the behavior of the reserve which is that we just we match the exporter must export what is it is it is it is observing and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "then apps to the um to TD when we analyze data to uh to interpret it entreparately next slide please the next question is why we need NFC for this um especially given that the ipfix registry is um expert review we can just go to the expert and say yeah please modify the research three and then we are done the problem is that in the rrc that rrc in this slide we need an ATF consensus for this so that's why we need again to go for another RFC if we want to fix what we have in the ipfx registry hence the next slide image I have I would say many questions for the year for the working group the first one is whether this is something that you think that we should we should we should solve that or we just forget about it and leave people live with the uh the entire property problems and then if we decide to proceed with this we have some logistical aspects the first one is in which stream the previous one I remember it was sponsored by benue at the time and I don't know if we will consider that that that that that track this this time but my favorite option is to uh to adopt it here in the uh Ops are working group rather than going for the uh uh it is possible especially that we have already working on the other ipvx documents here in the UPS are working so that's that will be just a straightforward uh the other one which track whether we maintain it in the informational or go to the standard track and so let's open the the third one either we just maintain the current approach we have in the drafts as to the all that the new or we go to a clean version with an abyss version of the uh of the RFC especially the Earth is really a very brief one so it it may make sense to go with with the base and that's it for what I have to tell about this this restaurant so I um I I launched a a poll to get everyone's interest if this there's three options here you raise hand if you think this is a problem to be worked on uh specifically here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um don't raise your hand if you don't have an opinion or do not raise hand if you think no this is not a problem to be worked on there's no interest or choose to do nothing if you don't have an opinion as a chair I would personally and and I know the ads and I have gone back and forth on this I would prefer to have things go through working group um consensus and working group process um so I I would like to see if there is if the working group wants to take this on I'd like to see it come or give the work group first writer refusal and it looks like what you can see here there is some interest in working on this in Ops AWG and why but one class so you're right that first of all an ip6 meeting process must report what he sees regardless of what we say in Ayana the TCP Flags is a good example yes it should be updated now there is another option because actually when I reviewed what's happening in the is Ayana registry we might have more occurrences than CP the TCP Flags where we were too strict in a description about reports at that time of creating those information elements they've been evolving so sometimes they point to the right registry description is wrong so if we want to do a real good job we should be reviewing all the descriptions there and making sure they're pointing to the right registry so it might not be just updating the TCP flux RFC it might be okay if we want to solve this issue and that's why I wanted to ask this question before you did the poll uh Joe because actually reviewing this registry for all the type of occurrences that you've got might be a good work to do but to just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "sorry hard to take notes and comment um that's uh it's it's a good question um and probably yes something that needs review I don't know however Med if that's the work you want to to take on as part of of this work though yeah and perhaps that's something that and I don't know it could be that that's something that requires a set of drafts to go after each different area or if it's something that someone wants to take on and one Fell Swoop problem uh so just confirm we said earlier I have a strong preference just trying to get this sort of work to go through the working group um and that's just because of my workload if you go through ad sponsored you a you get less consensus and less sort of review and also it slows it down because because of actually how much other work I have to do so trying to get this through the working group is definitely best from my point of view um because the I guess those were both Benoit um so it sounds like there is interest in in working on this um I will or we will uh take this to the list and see um about adoption but to benoit's point this is something we'll have to talk about do we and and get what the working group feels is this something that we need to do more broadly um and how should we approach that uh for right now I think um we'll we'll look at this uh look at this work uh this particular draft but if there's a desire and maybe Benoit has that desire we can we can push forward with a broader uh look at the registries speaking so Matt why don't you spend the two of us half an hour to quickly go through the Ayana registry and see how big of a problem it is if it's only a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "couple of if it's only TCP good if there are some more if there are three we could do it if we speak about 25 that's a bigger job yeah okay yeah we do this this week yeah we do that yeah okay thanks Manuel next hello good morning everyone I'm thiru I'm co-author of this craft next slide please uh what triggered this draft was uh comments raised during the Isaac review uh when we were publishing uh encrypted DNS results discovery that was uh uh work from at the working group at that time there were various concerns raised with regard to discovering encrypted resolvers when uh endpoints end up attaching to networks which which may not be the legitimate Network that the end user believes it is attaching to these networks and that's a typical problem today with regard to dotted next not widely being deployed in several networks endpoints not supporting the iot devices not supporting rotten X evil twin is a very uh common attack that's seen in various networks uh because they they all use pre-shared keys and there are various ways pre-shade Keys could be leaked to an attacker it could happen in your home networks hotels coffee shops even small office and home office Networks foreign that was happening in ad working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "was uh earlier there were several uh endpoints which were using uh trusted pre-configured resolvers like cloudflare or Google and with this the the challenge or the security risk that was seeing was uh endpoints uh end up connecting to uh attackers Network emulating legitimate networks and they would continue to use encrypted DNS but the attacker who's hosting these networks would be able to see uh even modified DNS messages so the purpose would be lost that was the concern that was raised next slide please yeah and this is the same problem in any network that use operationistic wireless encryption where there is no no peer authentication happening uh it could also happen in mobile networks where you're as part of the supply chain attack uh there is a possibility that the the long-term uh secret that's stored on the SIM card is stolen and uh you could be connecting to a fake based Edition and the fake base station could be hosting an encrypted DNS resolver next slide uh what did we do to solve the problem right uh we proposed a mechanism where we would use the discovered encrypted resolver as a fingerprint uh to decide whether you're indeed attaching to the same network or not uh because uh these uh servers are resolvers are get PK validated certificates and that gives us uh that means to say that the domain name that these resolvers are using acts as a fingerprint to identify if you are indeed data setting so the same ssidy or not but then if you are if you really don't want to rely on SSID because networks keep changing SSID there are if there are networks which are using Heap TLS don't have to rely on Trust on first use mechanisms next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "so if you take scenarios like home network which is using probably WPA2 or wpa3 which is using psks and they don't want to migrate to epls then this is one proposal that you have is used Trust on first use so the endpoint when it connects to the network for the first time fingerprints the network basically takes the SSID hash of the preset secret to make sure the SSID is unique because there is a possibility that multiple home networks would have the same SSID then use the discovery mechanism that's being used either DNR or DDR and the identity of the encrypted DNS resolver which would be domain name in case of DNR and if it's case of TDR it's going to be a public IP address uh which is which will be there in the certificate for the end point to validate next slide yeah so once the client disconnects and reconnects to the network all that the client has to do is recheck if the encrypted DNS server side entity continues to match if it doesn't match it gives a hint back to the client that it's most likely connecting to and he will twins Network there is a possibility that in certain networks the SSID name would match the DNS servers subject alt name extraction uh so with that what would happen is for example in case of a public Wi-Fi hotspots you would have the SSID name matching what is what is the identity of the DNS server and and that Awards you to avoids the endpoints to do uh tofu mechanism but that may not be viable options for several reasons for instance my home network using a public resolver and I can change my home network ssidy for that to use the public resolver as a society app name right so that doesn't make sense in in several other networks as well next slide thank you yeah what's the other alternative if if you don't have to depend on uh tofu or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "depend or get dependent onto the encrypted universities uh if you're using an e method for authentication especially epls uh that's that's going to be a lot more easier that all that the client has to do is check if the SSID name matches the uh sand extension in the TLs certificate this is going to be pretty useful for endpoints which are not managed by MDM networks where client authentication is not required and during the device registration process thank you the security threats that we anticipated was hey yes the evil twin will not be able to see the DNS messages but it will still be able to see the other traffic uh but we see that the capability of the attacker will will continue to decrease as more and more protocols adapt to use encryption for instance uh the work happening in TLS 1.300 encrypted client hello so the attacker will not be able to see the Sni and they will not be able to remove the DNS records with PCH keys and that will also give protection from pervasive monitoring not to identify what Target domain the client is reaching by just looking at the TLs traffic excellent yeah we would like to have more discussion on this and any other mechanisms that would help uh to protect endpoints from connecting to these evil twin Networks thank you comments Warren I figured you might want to comment on this one oh apparently I'm really short um so I don't know if you saw the ietf welcome to the meeting message but the whole thing on you might need to forget your ietf SSID and that's because we're using dot 1X"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "and it had like cached the certificate and getting the phone to forget that was really hard blah blah blah blah I do think we need to be careful that if people do things like this when their DNS servers change that's easy for them to tell their device yes this is expected to be different and yes I know like the encrypted DNA stuff is all different and sort of that's okay especially if the device is doing stuff like V6 multi-homing you might be using one set of ISP at one point and another one it might automatically change so as long as it's easy that the user has a way you know they don't get stuck locked into an encrypted DNS server that's no longer the one that they want to be handing out that's a good point thanks okay next the one okay so on behalf of uh Diego and nacho from telefonica from Thomas from suscom Jean and myself from Huawei I want to present the data manifest for contextualized Telemetry data next slide please so that's something that's a documentary presenting a couple of times and I want to stress something not sure if you've witnessed this but uh there were multiple background there were multiple meetings and discussions about trying to keep the semantic in the ITF so specific Nita collection so we had a side meeting on getting Yang and sibo Kafka um in order to do yank push on boarding there was also a net conf a draft on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "getting the the Yang module Revision in the header in order to keep the the semantic along the Palms it was presented also this young and civil in iapg and Nigel who I saw earlier presented like the limits of modeling and we start to realize that we need to keep the cementing absolutely not only in configuration but also in the operational part and this is all the topics that were discussed recently because the data without clear semantic not only a repeating conflict but also an operational is not useful we are blind we cannot take an action for close to action so the end goal is to analyze the data from a data collection system with the proper context the proper semantic why remember to do annual detection and closed loop what we're doing with this draft is not to create new information it seems simply to collect information we need to determine the semantic and send it along with the Yang push the telemetry and even if the source not accessible because yes information is somewhere but just doing a call on the router to understand this maybe it's not the right thing or maybe because the router was upgraded or maybe because the Telemetry information was changed so we need this information next slide please if you know about this slide about this draft the example I always give is the same let's Assume My Time series database looking at time series and I've got one counter yesterday at time T1 and I've got nothing else since yesterday so what's happening here is there something abnormal well the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "first thing you could be thinking if no Telemetry data there is a Telemetry issue or maybe the revolter is overloaded and can't send information maybe it's a bug or maybe well there's no problem because you ask this information to be sent every single day right or maybe you ask to do it on change so if the value 42 in Time series is still 42 Naruto right now well you don't send anything which is same thing as the suppress you don't see there so depending on the context you have or you don't have a problem to act upon and this is the thing whenever we go from the router to The Collector to uh Kafka to a Time series to the analytics and those guys now it takes their relation tests I need to find an action there so we they can't go and call someone to say how did you configure this Telemetry because I only see a single value yesterday this is what you want to solve next slide please so the proposal is to have two data manifests once the platform all the information required to completely characterize the platform information which platform it is what is the OS you have a specific license on this etc etc because if it changes well the context changes and the close to action will be different and the other one is the data collection manifest how was the metering process how was the Telemetry configured on the device is what the previous slide I showed right with a couple of different actions depending on on the context and this information must be streamed along with the source it does not mean that we have to set every single time we send a Telemetry message but it means that we must be able to find back the information so if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "the data is pushed different place the context must be following all right next slide please so what is doing in this draft and by the way uh if you want to get a details there's backup slides so we changed uh it was a proposal to change the Yang module names to be more obvious okay done the prefixes aren't changed next please what is new I would say is that to make sure that we understand each other we have a scenario in the appendix so typically you've got a device sending to a model vent Telemetry collector sent into infix DB so what you could be doing is at the top right hand side this is typically what you would be having as a Time series in inflex okay without a timestamp because it's not useful to replant them here and with the Manifest we have actually two different pointers that are going into first of all the platform manifest on the left and then on the right we have the subscription ID and the specific parts that we're looking at and they're going and pointing to the data collection manifest so these are possible ways of storing information in fixed DB and we thought that giving a full example would help understanding what you want to do next slide please so I have to admit that we have not updated the draft as much as we wanted so we still have some identified Improvement that we want to do uh one is to use the pen the private Enterprise number from Ayana to identify the vendors the second one that Diego identified pretty early this is data integrity and making sure that we know that the data is not changed and the context information is not changed along the along the paths Dan bognanovic last time to give us a good use case in the world of iot where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "we've got different devices different iot devices with different contexts and with different capabilities so it's important something that we want to do is to properly specify the device and that relates to the numerous inventory discussion we've been having recently and regardless of how we do it we need a unique ID right and that will be the one used as well in the in the platform manifests so we have uh one extra question by the way the one at the bottom should be include encoding what you said last time that we don't want to do that it's not useful in the platform or the metering uh the direction manifest so we've got one open question here which is about the MDD subscription so that's the collection of paths right so you could have one subscription with multi-part that you observe and somehow we could even have I observed that pass part of that subscription with those parameters but the same pass could be monitored in a different subscription with different parameters let's say one is on change one is like a regular pushing and netcomf allows to have XML filters as well so in a young push so that's a one thing that we want you to clarify on which key we want to use so you can follow the open issues there on the link so maybe the last slide and I see people in the queue that's good so we had multiple presentation multiple version uh new draft thanks to feedback from mediterion nacio and Joe and that's a question to the chair uh I believe you would like to get a Google adoption if you believe it's fine there's some Alex please yes things I I agree with the problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "statement it's a lot about what to try to solve but one question that I have is in in Yang push you're also included whether the data model itself includes basically the subscription configuration which basically includes a lot of the parameters that you have in your manifest so hence the question is what is the difference between what we are proposing here versus just subscribing to the subscription to to get to the subscription notification doesn't this already give you much of what you need here that's a good point Alex so basically you're right that if we if we have all information from the configure subscription ID we have all information the thing is that I'm trying to say is that whenever you move to you know time series analytics if you lose that information you you lost the context so if the device was still alive and pingable and reachable you could directly go and get this information so somehow you're right we're sending the subscription ID information along with with the data is this yes so I so I'm not quite sure so how do you sorry I did not fully understand that but why is this different with a manifest because you can always I mean obviously if you lose the information or as a client that is always an issue but it's irrespective of reporting it because in this case in both case you're you're streaming that information already and of course as a as a client you would be expected to store that somehow we're streaming the data but actually we're not streaming the subscription ID configuration parameters that you could subscribe to those as well yes we could obviously yes right okay good point uh Rob Wilson Cisco as a as a participant so um I'm just trying to understand what we have today and what how this differs in terms of you can always it's essential question but you can read gang library off the device and know what's there if the right system packages you can do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "that so you can get that information and embed it is the key difference here trying to embed that information into the data flow that's coming out of the stream Telemetry is that the key thing yes and the second question related to that is so today obviously with Yang library that tells you what the Yang models are and that information but the other information you're including is sort of uh information about the subscription the subscription parameters how often you're polling that sort of thing that's to give the Integrity of the data is that yes there are two parts so it's not only about the Yang Library it's also the information the platform right let's assume that there is like a bug and now you upgrade you fix that bug right you want to get the information about the OS version a simple example to follow the information of the data because in your time series database you want to say oh this is before the back and after back so I want to learn my closed captioning not available they they will be doing the wrong conclusions and then so the last comment is I don't know if this is the right solution or not because I haven't looked at it closely enough I do think this is a good problem to be working on I do think it's something that's helpful to solve very good thank you hi this is Hank um no heads on so with the uh huge domain of metadata so there's a huge amount of metadata you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "are you're opening a whole new world to your manifest and you're bringing a whole new world of telemetry uh to the silos I understand that your silos are disconnected and you want to connect them that's an High School I actually support that um you were talking about platform and then Integrity with Integrity then you would use to uh how the data is Con conveyed so platform Integrity is this whole own kind of worms the metadata that you described at the moment is just on aesthetic and dynamic nodes it's just labeled data it's calling that the semantic is you use it once in the slides often and the idea it appears once and that's okay because that's just labeling so my comment is if you're if you're going there there will be a lot of extensions later all of these extensions will be a cross area and I would prepare for that moment when people realize okay you're talking about platforms but what about my platform attestation my Integrity my keys my trespass in this my intellectual security force and all Impact your metadata so while you will create the first Edge for siloing I mean there will be a lot more answers I assume I just I assume so that I just want to just carefully point out that this is an extension Point you're creating here and that will be used at some point overused maybe there must be a good Gateway function and that will also be probably has to be captured in the ID early on I would agree with that right now we see a need for a couple of those metadata parameters or manifest and I believe that we're going to require more and more of these if we really want to solve the closed loop right so uh I I would agree with your statement okay then just make here take care of the involve other dealers uh cross"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "pollinate um via other um places here in the ietf and then maybe extend on that metadata scheme and really make sure that this metadata scheme is expecting all these uh extensions that we might be incoming that would be nice the last one yeah no it's it's precisely regarding What Hank was mentioning just uh uh as benue said is uh somehow my request to have some mentions so well Integrity I was talking about provenance we started talking about it and that includes timeliness and associations and everything we are starting to scratch the surface I I have been talking this is with Zhang about some ideas on how we can do it in a in a compact enough uh way to to deal with this manifest that is true that we are yeah at the first crack or something that probably is going to be um um so some kind of a flood yeah uh well I consider myself an infectious agent from me when it comes to these so I I guess that we will be talking about these in both sides so I'm I'm very much I guess thank you how many how many of you in this room has read this document please okay hello so I'm going to present you the draft about configuration tracing so it's on behalf of the Autos over here next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "so the the issue is uh sometimes we might have a network with um several layers of orchestrator controllers and is and if there is a configuration going wrong at some point we might want to be able to trace where that configure where that configuration originates from so for instance a configuration in any two could be due to some service request in orchestrator a and we want to be able to trust that back because to know if there is a where the mistakes come from if there is a mistake in the service for instance or if you have like two controllers that are fighting over a device they might over overwrite each other or if you have a conflicting interns you can also have this uh this issue that actually it would be the lowercase Twitter in that case who are fighting each other or just the service are not properly defined so you might want to to fix that um and um the of course the the goal of that is to be able to automatically resolve the issue so we need to have a way that a software is able to to fix to capture and fix that uh next slide please um so what we have at the moment in the devices is that we have the history and some metadata Associated to each configuration change so some configuration metadata and the so the idea is that usually you have some kind of identifier that you can use to retrieve the time of configuration which user did that which protocol they used and also um uh the changes most of the time so out of that we abstract this into a local commit ID which represents that single"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "ID but of course since it's not standard we cannot do much better than a string here to identify the that particular configuration change next slide please so um there was a draft from janineblatt in in the net Comfort Group which was kind of the trigger for this work um so the idea of this draft is uh quickly put that you each time you configure uh something via netconf but the client would push the configuration and the server would keep a common transaction ID that would be Associated to certain nodes and then the the the client when he has to sync with the with the the server or just change the configuration uh can check whether the the numbers the transaction IDs that they share have changed or not and if they have not changed then you don't have to think anything or you can do also configuring or Niche if the keys is still valid so this is a way to to speed up the synchronization uh and in our case we want to use that in order to uh see if the the configuration that was pushed was pushed by a particular request from the client so because we have this common ID above the client and the server we can from the ID on the server find back the corresponding transaction in the client next slide please so here there is some names actually um we we might change that because we had some commands from Med to use parent transaction and child transaction so I'm still going to use Northbound and southbound here but it's the the same ID"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "um so in uh in the example here the text tx1 would be a self-bond transaction for the orchestrator and uh it would be a Northbound transaction for the controller and so the the ideas right the main idea of our draft is to map the local commit ID to uh the corresponding uh North Bond and southbound transaction if they exist so basically in the controller when I receive the configuration from tx1 it will change my configure my local configuration so I will have a local configuration ID I will say this was called by orchestrator with the X1 so this is what you will remember and uh in the controller what you will do is that you will uh and and then you will store also Associated to the local commit ID the information that in turn it pushed the text to index free so this is a basically what we want to solve but we want to store in the in the young model so next slide please and so in in the young model without surprises we have the local configuration change local commit ID uh as the key and the Azure City tweets the list of Northbound transaction ID not the single transaction ID that cause this configuration the idea of the client and the list of servant transactionality next slide please so this is uh how we could exploit the same model so again without any surprise it starts by identifying where there was an issue in the ne from that we can retrieve the Northbound transaction ID and the Northbound client ID and we can go back then we know it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "the controller so we can go back to the controller we can say what was the transaction for that particular transaction ID and we can match then uh to the to the transaction ID between the controller and the orchestrator and find back the original service request so since it's kind of recursive there is no need to to stop oh okay so let's uh let's slide [Music] uh yes perfect so um there are some questions for this draft so first one is that um uh there was a feature for the transaction ID this request that the client could push the transaction ID and so decide what transaction to use so that the this could simplify a lot our our process so what this one moral question for for Network actually um so this is something that we would like to add back um so there is a question that we have to to identify as well is the risk of collision between a self-bond transaction ideas um and so um we were wondering whether this uh using only that for netconf because we have the transaction ID is good or whether we should also include the rescue so that's another Point uh I think we had some feedback from from Network which was of course if it works on network we should work with response as well and finally uh there is a draft that is solving the exact same problem from Jan"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "and uh Rock I think uh where their ideas to solve the problem is to use trust so basically you send the ID and then you you push the you you follow the truss of that of that ID but this ID is not linked to the to the transaction and then the trays are sent to a collector which maintains the the information of where each configuration went which is another way to solve the same problem so we will probably work together on that to in order to to find a common solution okay let's try please so is it uh so thanks for the review I made and is it uh is it a problem that we need to solve and is our solution an approach that that seems feedback uh Ayana I think you have a question Cisco could you go back one slide please and uh Jan while you're doing that I put a poll up on his question is this a problem to solve [Music] all right yeah so I definitely support this uh problem space as you understand I've been involved with two drafts that are trying to work on this so I definitely think this is important especially if you want to take this network automation to the next level we'll need this sort of thing we get hierarchies of orchestrators and controllers and this is becoming a more and more acute problem uh we removed this possibility for clients to set the transaction idea in the transaction ID draft because that was the common consensus or the common opinion in the net conf working group at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "that time I personally still think it's a very interesting thing to to have there and we can have certainly discussed that and maybe in the new light of all these other dresses are coming into the net Comfort group maybe they will change their mind there okay when it comes to net conference conf yes I definitely think we should include dress companies as well uh and uh talking about this last draft that is basically highly overlapping with this work that solution would work pretty much the same for netconf and rest conf so I think that's an advantage and also that solution Builds on the World by Web Consortium already established rest headers and stuff like that so it's kind of nice to align with existing technology that's in the field already but I would certainly be interested to work continue to work together with you on this and I think even though there's great overlap between uh this regardless Trace context extension and what you have here there are some areas that are not exactly the same and uh some functionality that's missing in one or the other so maybe they could complement each other thank you thank you as robots and Cisco so uh the good to hear that you you both sides are willing to work together on this problem I think that's obviously the right thing to do if you can do that in terms of where to do this work I know you've sort of been presented both here and in netconf I think um so I wonder whether that comp would be a good place to try and coordinate this because that's also where the transaction ID draft is and I think they're all closely related so that would be my suggestion or the best place to discuss this I was going to say the same thing uh I do have a comment not as a chair though um so you talked about collusion of transaction IDs Collision of client IDs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "and I think client ID was brought up in the um netcomp working group it seems to me as an arbitrary string with no coordination clients could pick the same ID and then I wonder how volatile that data is because if a device crashes and you want to see why it crashed is that is your draft talk about Persistence of that data no yes we didn't open that it's uh I would say yet another inventory problem where you need to have a unique ID I don't know how to solve that yet except of saying that every client in the in the network should have a unique ID and as you say that is persistent but I'm not sure whether it's really reasonable considering that you might actually have orchestrators that and controllers that don't belong to the same are not managed by the semantities so in that case it becomes it becomes harder to to serve to serve that issue so yes I I I don't have a solution at this moment and uh Rubble Francisco again so in terms of conflicting client IDs I think I would just push that into the space of whoever is do sending those updates down to the device and say that they have to coordinate so maybe give some advice on on how they how they can achieve that but um I I think keep being like an open string is probably the right answer and just saying look there are ways this can be avoided by putting like the the name of the controller that's sending it down or something in the ID okay as chair it looked like there was good interest 18 hands were raised no hands were not raised so there does seem to be support for this uh but I do agree that I think netcomp might be a better area for some of this work okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:11",
    "text": "yeah it's Camilo Camilo will uh present yeah it's the same presentation I updated headstock you may oh this is cool hello so in behalf of the authors for the draft data model for life cycle motivation operation I'm going to give a bit of update in the draft my name is Camilo Cardona from NTT next please uh so Marisol already provided an overview of this draft in a in a couple of it itfs ago so I'm just going to go very quickly the idea of the draft is to let's say um support the life cycle management and operation of assets uh we have heavy scope on on usability of the asset that is the features that the asset contain uh the feature usage and the licenses that support those feature those features this draft is not an inventory draft we are uh ideas that we leverage other drafts that actually Define the inventory uh it seems like there are tons of drafts about that and we need consensus on that but we don't tackle that problem next please so the difference from the previous versions um I mean this the the core of the draft is a young model so we have been trying to gather use cases that basically try to bring that model to reality as much as we can this is an ongoing work so the more use cases we We Gather the better and we're trying to just to tune the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "model based on that so we have been tuning the model a bit and we're just on that process yeah next please so with that I'm just going to say a few words about well one of the Scopes of the draft which is licenses feature and feature research um licenses or features are complex to model just as inventories so what we are going to try to do or what we're trying to do is to try to bound the scope of what the model can do or not so we can process present that to the group and we all decide whether this is worthy or not uh based on of course the limitations of a complex problem um however uh well this is ongoing work but I do want to comment in a few points uh so I mean just to give you an update um first of all licenses are features the model will not model a catalog of them but uh inventory of them inventory of features and licenses not of inventory of assets uh what is that a catalog that is uh if a company wants to dispose all the all the possibilities of features and licenses that they have that's an extremely complex problem it involves a lot of graph and a lot of options and that's not what we want to model right now so we are not going to model that it will be just inventory of feature analysis the second point is that licenses are going to be basically defined as feature well it will be an upper bound on feature usage if a license is just a way of giving you permission to use a feature then that's fine it will just be a limited well if it's just limited in time then you just say it but a lot of times licenses basically have upper bounds on on usage such as okay this can be used just in ncpus or this can be used on with M users or with x amount of flows or stuff like that so we will Define licenses as that using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "the feature usage upper bound um multiple times licenses have defined limit on multiple uh feature module multiple properties uh and we are fine with that as long as there is no correlation or relationship between the between them so for instance I'm going to read that because if not I forget if I license cover something like ncpus if you have more than five users uh that's let's say kind of complex to model we can but then the model will be very complex so we are not going to cover something like that but we will cover stuff like um let's say you have an application an app a DV database that can be installed in many devices but only up to ncpus uh that's something that we like to cover right so you can Define uh this feature or this database is installed in and divide in these devices and this is how many CPUs are being used for that database in total and you have of course your limit on licenses so that's uh our status right now next please um so that's basically the um the overview um we have a bi-weekly call uh Marisol coordinates that so if anybody wants to join please send us an email uh well to marisolar to any of the authors uh we have some notes I mean if anybody wants to visit um this drop does depend a lot in the material in inventory definition and that seems to be kind of um I mean there are a lot of propositions for that actually I heard of my head of IT how that's being handled uh but it does depend on that so um yeah we would like to have some feedback on how that inventory part will be will be steering the working group to try to to be able to to score better than the draft because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "it does depend a lot on Inventory management on inventory assets that's it real quick we have people in the in the queue there there was a side meeting on inventory uh that happened here um it was shared on the on the list I'm in interested and I think uh we have the multiple participants in the room some feedback from that um because I'm very curious some of the questions you asked about how the authors of this work want to move forward but uh oh God I think I just have few comments about the draft like the first one would be close to the mic the first one would be LMO like you know it is uh asset lifecycle management operation so I personally find it a little bit kind of confusing to have life cycle management and operation because it doesn't Define the scope it could be confused with another things that have life cycle and management operation the second comment would be I think you lost one of the modules in your latest version ITF LMO it was there in version five but it disappeared in the latest version so maybe just check that which module ITF LMO you have a common and you have the others but the the one in between uh is was there in version five it's not okay here anymore and and another comment is about bi-directional associations maybe um maybe you you can go through another review to see if all of them are necessary you know or if you could reduce their number of bi-directional Association stuff okay thanks thank you does Alex come yeah I have a I'm also a little bit too uh I'm not quite sure why this is a separate word from the inventory uh management and Licensing some of the use cases that you show here appear to be things that you would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "mostly aggregate at the OSS level so not on the individual device level so I think clearly basically the licensing is about those types of considerations that you mentioned are are certainly valid but I'm wondering how much of that wouldn't I mean wouldn't most of this occur at the OSS level do you really need this instrument in the network well this is not separate for the inventory this highly depends on the inventory the the this draft does not try to tackle inventory that's a different story so we are hopefully the inventory will be defined and modeled in another work that's what we're saying but we do depend on that a lot that's that's the case okay but a lot of some of the uses that you said uh really aggregate stuff across the network you say okay basically yeah I have realized and I want to have so many users so many cores and so forth covered uh what confuses me about it is this is stuff well I think this clearly this is valid but again it would be something that you'll Aggregate and consolidate at the operation support system level at the basically I think at the management application or the controller level is not really something that you would instrument as part of the devices I guess that's well I mean that's a question that I have perhaps I'll just leave it as a question for an hour yeah that's a general question we have um whether this information will be centralized not on not on a central point not maybe on the devices that's a good question I I do not know thanks so Roblox and Cisco um I think this is like when they ad hat on so you asked a question about how does this work progress and how does the work progress with the um inventory models and things so I was there in the side meeting uh here as well so he'll keep me honest I think it's quite right so Chin's uh basically my summary of that is there's different groups of interest in working on the inventory models and I think there's interest in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "trying to sort of compare and contrast those and maybe bring those together those are currently a different working groups so some effort needs to needs to happen to coordinate those I think the next step proposed to that is to create at least a mailing list to get those different parties together and talk together we might need some more coordination across um across the different working groups in terms of that I think sort of different from this model because I think this model is all almost like a user of the inventory rather than directly having the inventory uh embedded in it so I think that's sort of interesting to decouple those possibly and then the last comment and this is more wider I think um we had sort of discussions about how these different young models again created different working groups get get get work together and work as like a cohesive set and I think there's an idea potentially of trying to spin up a working group or a special interest group or something like that to try and coordinate not just specifically this these such young models but Yang more generally to see if we can get a sort of cohesive set so that's a slight sort of side topic but I don't know if chin wants to speak any more about the meeting but um I will create the mailing list um and we will go forward from that point of view just to quickly respond to the robot actually yeah we have assigned meeting yesterday and we I think yeah uh really want to you know in a high level uh reach agreement and for the terminology school and we single uh can we can have a synergize effort to work on this so we'll uh actually request the lady to create a minister for this thank you foreign no hats unfortunately it was blocked headed sight reading yesterday so I would have loved to pretend that um have not having now read anything about the minutes or the notes about that you're talking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "about licensees and um a lot of uh working groups sorry communities out there curate those lists um especially in the software world there's a list about 465 licenses and then I see that you are talking about uh parameterizing those because number of users which again would multiply the options how to represent licenses and that's just for software the OSS that was mentioned by avex and it might be confusing things and that is that is my question so why is the licensing here different and why is the licensing here I I a simpler inventory solution then everywhere else and I think that is something that Robert was not standing out for me on the slides and again I apologize for not being able to attend the uh side meeting here I might not be able to answer the question directly because of defining licenses in general here um uh we are maybe it has another name right uh maybe here what we are defining is uh licenses in in terms of your ability of being able to run a feature or a product um database you have a license to run a database in a server and how to define how much uh how much you can use that feature in terms of properties so how many users can use the feature not so much of licenses of software like MIT or not like that and it is indeed confusing to me because I cannot really Define what the difference is and why it has the same word I I so I I won't be able to answer that because it's over my capabilities right now overloaded yes yeah so so that is exactly the thing the scope that should be obvious like at the start what's the scope of the licensing so you're trying to manage it for the inventory because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "everybody else will jump on this depending on their experience that's what they will think and and and and to be honest with you I I what I I was thinking maybe I should say this but I was I maybe I will get myself into trouble trying to describe this in the middle of the presentation but it's very valid and it is definitely not what we're trying to cover but something else so we do need to be more clear about that yes yeah yeah that's very very good yeah yeah that sounds very accurate well this is Diego the one that uh speaks suffer Hank normally and uh yeah just just a a reflection that is very much to support what uh Rob and dancing were mentioning is that we are we are reaching the point in which we are touching uh we're extending the idea of that we can read and modify the configuration of a device and we are reaching the moment in which everything that has to do with the operational um environment of the device including entitlements and including the different modules to be available and the and the and the inventories Etc and we and we are touching we are reaching the moment in which we are interacting with other kind of databases another kind of data I think it is worth considering precisely to start whatever a group in which this is at least coordinated so we are not having things that are happening in NETCOM funding we realize here that anything else is is going on Etc so I believe it's very interesting and probably I don't know if we are going to I don't know a mentors group or a working group dedicated to we should have to to take a operational completeness or whatever I don't know I don't know the name but it will be quite interesting and he's a and it's part I believe of the Natural Evolution of the maturity of the of the Jiang approach for modeling and control"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "uh sir Robertson ad so I think it will create the mailing list and that'd be a good place to then have these sort of discussions to see if if there's sort of interest and we confirm this up one way or another but uh Paul from Valley uh I just have a clarification question on this uh because you define the asset it's also it doesn't specify the scope it's only see there's could be physical software or true so I'm not sure whether it contains order like it Assets in the Enterprise Network how to Define asset uh at least we are considering the scope something that is not physical so for instance a VM can also be an asset so there's software assets but maybe I haven't thought how much to Define it so I cannot really tell you whether that's a yes or a no but uh yeah I I guess the ability of a model to be able to also cover that uh it shows how good the model is if we have more use cases then we will we should be able to Accord to correlate what you say to see if the model covers it so but uh right now I do not know I'm sorry interest of time where we're closing the queue so please these are great conversations to have on the list thank you Camille okay next for thank you nope"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "hello hello everyone uh my name is Boho and I'm here uh present uh the a network inventory model on behalf of my co-authors okay thanks next slide please uh the model uh the problem this model is trying to solve with that uh in the current Enterprise Network uh the we have different domains like campus network uh uh currently we have also like sd1 Network to cover the one connection and also there could be data center Network or a cloud Network so each this network may have its own uh Network inventory model to expose to to the OSS system uh but uh on the right uh you can see the figure that uh we we give here uh uh Enterprise Network abstraction uh network uh and security function abstraction here that uh in order to do those uh like security policies to be consistent and also the service so policy could be consistent we need uh like a end-to-end point of view to like collected all those uh all those inventory uh status to make it this policy could be consistent the problem here we try to like we need to understand what the current status of network so we think Network inventory can help get this uh accurate status next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:03",
    "text": "here I gave just some concrete example here oh wait wait uh in our input implementation we see that there's a more iot Terminals and it OT sensors Wi-Fi uh bring your own devices all those endpoints they are moving uh in some different way and we also have some remote worker endpoints that could be connected to an Android device Network and also there could be some Cloud Network endpoints so here uh in next slide please oh um I I just grew uh just recap what the the problem is we are thinking that um we need uh a complete view of this network and its status and we think the endpoints and network nodes uh some some like some places that we can get all those Network information uh and here I give some like Network inventory documents that may be relevant uh like in this working group we also have the service attachment points but that uh I think that job is mailing for the service provider domain and also uh ccamp has that physical Network inventory but we think our work here is quite different from that one because that inventory is just about from the hardware inventory View and uh a previous slide uh presentation is about asset Centric uh I mean life cycle management so I think these uh works are quite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "relevant but I I think still there are some parts missing there so next slide please so here uh in in this uh the inventory model that we presented here where we we are suggesting uh we can like augment current ietap Network model that to uh adding a like software uh or or Hardware components to the current ietf Network notes and also uh adding more information about IP address Mac address or some software information and also endpoints information to the current Network model so in that way we think in this way we can get a better Network status from this model so I think that's it's all about the model so I like to hear there are some comments on on our proposal uh zadie I only said quite made previously to to coordinate with the other people doing the same sort of stuff and trying to get to a common thing okay foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "so hello everyone this is Susan from Huawei so so there is a version of the draft and the name is policy-based network access control so next slide please foreign so for the problem statement let's say that is uh at the Enterprise Network scenario where one of its employees one of his employees let's say he's a Salesman support that and who needs to usually travel a lot from one branch to another and work in different branches and such the mobile office will make the his IP addresses change very frequently but from the others from the company's perspective that such employee has a quite stable role in the company and a unified permission control of the network resources uh yeah let's say that for example the company would like to restrict his employee to access the YouTube for Video Entertainment during the work hours every workday and the company would like to release that restriction during the work hours and weekends so in this case the controller needs to interact with the SL policy enforcement devices very frequently to modify the SL policies depending on the IP addresses and the time of the day so we think that these different security policies need to be applied to even some user but under different circumstances it will be applied different policies it also this also not only requires the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "frequent interaction between the controller and the policy enforcement devices but also will consume a huge number of SEO entries so next slide please yeah so the question is can we do better for this scenario and our proposal we would like to ensure the enforcement of Access Control policies based on a user group identity for example if we can Define that as a user group of cells then we can say that during the every work hour and and we would work there and I work there he can deny that sales to the destination and it gives a time of the depth parameter and then during the off hours and the weekends there is another policies without the non-workout parameter and here I would like to mention that the Judo group we could defined as an identity that represents the collective identity of a group of users and also refers to the ones who obsess the Enterprise Network and consume specific network resources or services next slide please yeah so here is the young modules which we call the UCL extension to the young to SL model and here we augmented the SL match container with a new Choice named user control group and inside the user control group we have the source match and destination match and inside each match there could be the user group identity parameter and also could Define an ipv for IPv6 prefix and also we augmented the SCE for each SL for each Access Control entry we like to define a Time range parameters to realize the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "time variance accessible policies so that here we can cover the four times four types of Access Control the group to the group access and IP prefix to ibuprofit success and group to IP prefix access and also the IP practice to group success so next slide please and there is still another missing piece because of the the Euro group might be a quite abstract concept it might be hard for the devices to understand that you're the group so we still need some way to realize the group ID to address mapping so here are we just get a list two alternatives to realize that maybe one that support that the user needs to convert his username and password to the triple a client uh who need to oh which gives a sense the request to the Triple S server and got the user group ID then the triple a client could maintain that mapping of the user group and his IP addresses and if that if that triple a client also collides with the SL policy enforcement point then he already got the mapping between the group ID and the IP address so it's easy to act on the user group best Access Control policy and another way another alternative if we say that the triple a client is not collected with the slpp then in this case then triple a client could just report his maybe information to the controller and then the SLP be good query that map information from the controller and then got the mapping information to the act"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "action on the access control policies so two alternatives to realize the group had to address mapping yeah so next slide please so I I think that's it so uh Robertson Cisco no hats so the one thing I have concern here is the sort of time-based aspect of the configuration and that's only because it feels like it's a very specific solution to this particular thing whereas I wonder whether if we want to have time-based configuration we'd want to solve that more generically and have a more generic solution for allowing configuration to change over time although I have to say I'm not entirely sure whether pushing that down to the device makes sense or whether it's better just to have the controller updating the configuration on time at various points of the day so I know some of the other os's do support time-based configuration changes so that's my thought here yeah thank you thanks maybe you could consider that into the next word thank you um Joe is uh chair this was presented in netmod um yesterday I think it was yesterday uh and um there was that the chairs there gave us kind of first right of refusal so I've got a a poll here to see if there's interest in in working on this problem I promised chin I'd read this but in interest of time I did the interest of time I do have some comments but I will take them to the list and I will relinquish my time to David foreign like in this scenario accessing YouTube um you you have user groups and IPS um defined but then your example YouTube was a domain and so the salesman going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "to different branch offices is going to query this domain and get different IPS and so is this something that you're assuming some other system is tracking all the different IPS YouTube is on from different branch offices or um I wasn't seeing how it covers the use case so um I was just curious how you were framing that problem uh my understanding actually this has been also discussed in an end mode so for your question actually one one of the you know uh scenario actually you may have policy server you need to uh you know uh your your user group for different for your Department financial r d department so this can be installed in the policy server and uh so this policy will be enforced on specific Network device so you can use this and to restrict access for for specific youth group so yeah asking about domains because you didn't Define domains here but the example was you're trying to restrict access to a domain but there's no definition of a domain like youtube.com here so um how how is that done here yeah I think you raised a very good question so the idea is you know here's a really you know probably the concept for the attribute based the network access control so we can add more attribute to to cover your use cases so yeah that's a kernel whatever you thought I think yeah uh could be a good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "point actually where you can think about how to resolve this uh another I want to respond to Robo yeah this also be discussed in net model so there's one another proposal ACL extension in nanomotive so for time uh related uh uh attribute could be you know be generalized in ACL extension model so we can reference from there yeah thank you okay next step Michael please quickly go some uniforms three minutes this is the right slide um so you see these documents a bunch of times over the to maybe two three five eight twelve years um next slide um and we had a bunch of conversations we tried to adopt some of them last year um and uh didn't really get adopted together it was weird um so the major loudest suggestion from Carson vorman and I'm not really sure if it was consensus in the end um was that this solution to the problem of these documents being not exactly standards truck and not exactly really being able to be ietf control was to extract the piece that required a standards track which was the part that creates the registry and put in a new document and so there it is Richardson Ops a wgb cap link type next slide um it's really boring document it consists of uh the part on the right for about uh 12 Pages um I talked to Ayanna about whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "they'd like this an XML file format and they said oh yes please um and that's really all it is um part an important part on the left that you can see is that there is a ionic consideration specification cards first come first served and we have some numbers as private use um it's actually um sometimes a 32-bit field but there are implementations where it's a 16-bit field like in netbsd um so that's why we keep in that but there are actually extra bits in most implementations if someone thinks that 65 000 is not enough for the end of the world we're only at about 290 right now okay um and that includes a whole generous amount of uh also private uses in the lower numbers plus local uses and stuff and then I would say over half of these are probably dead in various formats forms but it's impossible to really know next slide please yeah uh so the the short of it is please adopt this document um the pcap document then you could we could publish it in any way we like including ISE 80 sponsored through the working group I recommend we publish it as historic okay uh yeah there's lots and lots of use of it but nobody should be writing new code against it the pcapp NG and gosh I hate the word NG in everything but that's where it is um um we could publish it as informational it potentially could have a 2.0 at some point or is that a 3.0 I don't know um or we could do it as informational um in the normal not in our control um and both will reference P kaplink type registration and that's probably the last slide next slide yeah and I just said that oh and we had another document remember already removed a bunch of stuff out of it that was um like there's a systemd block info and I said all those things already I think that's it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:08",
    "text": "all right so what about some uh so I think this is I don't know what has happened I think this is interesting work I think it'd be nice for the idea to publish this um so I think it's finally the right way to publish this my preference we've tried to get through a working group that's always good for as an idea because it's less work I'd rather this go through the eye test than the ice e but if that has to if you're actually then fine but yes I think we should try and get this done because it's helpful for the community it's good to do I would rather just have this ring group adopt or clearly adopt all three documents and then specify them and I think we can move very quickly to working with last call that sounds good to me foreign welcome to the Ops area portion of your program uh with your hosts uh Warren Kumari and Rob Wilton I will be taking minutes sorry the Lord Warren Kumari able so just while we're setting up I'll make some quick comments um just to say that the Ops director we've had a few people that have dropped out of that the Ops directorate reviews are really helpful for Warren and I when we're overloaded with work because people's opinions um and sort of comments on those documents help tell us whether we need to uh to look at these documents closely and review them closely or whether we can say no actually there aren't any Ops area issues that we need to worry about this um so if there's people who've got a good experience and are willing to help join that directorate that would be great to really appreciate that um so be really helpful and then the other thing to point out is that uh the next non-com cycle is happening and so um again we've got three people up for uh the Ops um ad roll and again if you can provide comments back to non-com on the different candidates that helps them a lot in terms of sort of choosing candidates so please please provide me feedback if you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "yeah what Rob said um also somebody can let me share slides that would be awesome um yeah Kyon run I think has the current slide share of nut um yes the upstart record stuff is incredibly helpful to us um it's also a nice easy way to sort of get your feet wet with with something that's um sort of provides leadership type experience without the scariness and um is General driving the slides or am I driving this late um whichever people okay okay if you're sharing you can do it um so I believe that this is being presented by tourless if sure this is about all right thank you just a quick um uh reach out to the operator Community coming from another area routing um this is kind of I take it on a draft that we have but next slide this is really going back to um the fact that we did start a deterministic networking working group in the routing area to improve services in networks um and it started out um really with use cases where a lot of operators and applications owners were coming in very early on that took a couple of years we got the problem statement these use cases which are a good subset of what we're now seeing and the architecture and then of course a humongous number of rfcs to actually specify the forwarding plane in networks and then recently um this year we started to figure out that we do see gaps in what we have achieved primarily also to critical things that we were suggested not to do for the first few years right that up to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "now was um you you should really only use in the forwarding plane what we have because changing forwarding plane is always difficult so and that has been added as a potential um option to the Charter now and one of the things that we primarily identify next slide is that oh wait a second no there is one one more slide of a summary for those of you who haven't been to that net more recently so what what that net does um in my view right is uh any subset of services for traffic for customers um that guarantee bandwidth for flows um which is a per flow setup by a controller the maximum guaranteed end latency of traffic flows which can leverage you know whatever Qs can support this at this point in time that's one of the big gaps it can only leverage technologies that are primarily driven from IEEE layer to TSN um and um then and that's another uh of the big components a reduction of loss in the network through use of routing for a diverse path duplicating traffic and merging the duplicates on the receiver side right so these are kind of the three big building blocks throughput latency um and a reduction of loss and then of course all the components uh needed to operationalize that in the network OEM and the controller plane uh via young models for these Services right so now back to next slide what I wanted uh to talk about so where are these gaps and obviously you know one way is to reflect it back to to you and that's really what what what I hope to do the Outreach here for um when we started to look into it and I'm going to go into more detail from the next slide we felt that there was a lot of things that that net can do very nicely in the networks where people who came in uh had the background from which is industrial networks campus networks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "where TSN is working in where customers have just been asking we don't only want to do layer 2 switching we also want to have that working on IP But ultimately you know when we looked into uh what are the forwarding planes we have a lot of components we built are only available right now in mpls in the data plane and there has been much less resistance to even do small uh changes so um a good amount of what we want to achieve is not available on the IP forwarding plane so that's one limit even for that but the primary limit is that especially us vendors were looking at a lot of the design and thinking this will not scale to large area networks um in uh um sorry wide area networks and high-speed networks next slide and so that's how how we came together um vendors and and operators started to write problem statement explain these problems um and uh so from the vendor perspective uh I'm working for for uh Huawei um the the um the cost of building routers that have these services at 100 gigabit or 400 gigabit for Metropolitan access or larger networks it's really one of the concerns where we feel that we need better scalable uh cheaper to build Hardware infrastructure and then of course um also uh the the things where really The Operators would would have a lot more experience which is what is the overall package that we need to build from that net so that this can be reasonably operationalized and sold right so we think we've seen in the last few years quite a few potentially really interesting uh high value applications that could make you know that net the new VPN services so to speak um at least them are not going to uh uh enumerate them all but uh then uh the question is always what's the complete ecosystem what are the kind of first services that the U.S operators feel uh could uh help you to introduce a dead net hype services and then you know what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "are you missing to do that right and so that's basically the Outreach right come to that net the um problem statement the requirement draft that we have I think may be good part a good document to start revisiting and and add what's missing next slide so what we currently have is a key aspect such as reduction of the requirements for clock synchronization networks whether to reduce the cost or completely eliminate that that's been one of the core problems that we've seen coming from the TSN side if you're in a in a Rand you'll see that you have a clock requirements in the front hall but luckily not in the back hole and expansion of that customers don't need support of course four wide area networks with a large propagation of links that is not supported by the current uh queuing mechanisms then of course the overall cost of doing things in the 400 gigabit router as opposed to 10 gigabit campus router large number of flows because you have many customers the aggregation needed for that um and then of course also the operation of a large Network which has a lot more failures interruptions recoveries also how to keep the service easily running across those um then at the core of the latency the better scalable cheaper to implement queuing mechanisms and the explicit path selection where we have of course now since quite a while the segment routing architecture with mpls or isrv6 is one of the preferred mechanisms to do that in networks um that also given more view in that net so that that we can well support them and that list is even incomplete um and uh yeah so I think we would really love to see you know also an ability to prioritize these things based on what takes the longest to get done in terms of you know anything that requires new hardware I'd like to if you know know that early on whereas everything that we're missing in Yang models to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "operationally organize things may be the most important to you but given how you know we may have the hardware dependency first we can always uh you know do that more timely then right so that's a little bit kind of um my overview on that next slide yep and so that's what I was was here for right so if if you're if you're thinking there could be as an operator of uh especially large-scale network uh interest for you and that net again given that we have uh achieved you know a good round one and are now looking for things more for your type of networks please come to that word uh contact the authors or the net mailing list so I'd be really happy to see uh you know reinvigorated uh participation from new folks here thank you great I'm just going to say thank you very much for coming and presenting appreciated and we have about four minutes left which I guess is the Ops area open mic session um if anybody has any UPS area open mic question statements you wish to throw tomatoes and rocks at us please do so now no tomatoes fruits and vegetables okay well um thank you everyone very much again also another reminder please join the Ops directorate it's actually quite interesting and Incredibly helpful and useful and also please feel free feel free to provide feedback to the nomcom there is a large slate of people running um the Nom come feedback place I will put in the chat um many candidates running IAB isg Etc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:24",
    "text": "foreign thank you"
  }
]
