[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "Okay, so this works It says IETF 1.1 the chat works Oh I'm not used to being a delegate You're doing well. I was going to ask for scribes. I mean, I was going to ask for note takers, but that's not quite right, doesn't used to being a delegate. You're doing well. I was going to ask for scribes. I mean, I was going to ask for note takers, but that's not quite right. We do need them While we're waiting to start, anyone in interested in helping us with notes? I can only see half the room, so if you're racing your hand, you'll probably have to step up to the mic Like this, no, it's this thing All right, so Michael and I will make notes. Yeah thing All right, so Michael and I am linking notes. It's not, no, it's not ringing. We can't hear. Are you going to turn on the camera? No, sir Michael and I'm making notes. Yeah? It's not, no, it's not ringing. We can't hear. Are you going to turn on the camera? Yeah, I can do that Oh. Oh, we can see them both. Look at that He's wearing his IETF 99 shirt I thought the Meetecho has the blower thing of the back of me 120 but i just wonder if like it template is pasted in are you commenting on the slides slides it's correct agenda here or not so we don't have to do anything we just have to say whether people decide Oh, to take notes. Okay, I'm like to go on that moment. Oh, somebody's set it up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "to take notes? Okay, I'm like thinking a moment. Because there's like the notes are almost complete already. Oh, somebody set it up. The chairs look like. Somebody set it up, aren't they? good? Yeah, really set it up properly, yeah. Now what are you doing? doing? who there are they right there i'm your um you doing? They're right there. They're right there. I'm your, I'm your SEC AD Oh, okay. Sorry AD Do you want to put you in? Say something. Say something Yeah. It's better. I mean, it's workable. I wouldn't call it I see. So our voice is a voice volume is lower in the room He's working on it. I see Should we get started? Yeah, let him work a little bit longer on this let's because you all are talking first and we won't be able to hear you That could be a future He's working. You want us to keep talking? um yes So, maybe used. Yeah you want us to keep talking um yeah so maybe we go ahead and start and like the beginning stuff's pretty simple and ordinary stuff So you can talk and do the beginning stuff. And by the time we get to something real, he'll have it fixed Sounds good All right Akira, you want to take us out? Yes, yes. So, so yes Hi, so this is a sit working group session It's the one hour session. And happy to start And this is the note wheel. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "basically it's about the policy of the IDIF session and in general about unique what you need to consider about the patent and how the audio and slide will be made public and most of the people who are attending here pretty much seeing this not well many times but yeah it's a we need to show this slide every session So next page, please and uh yes, code of conduct Basically, it talks about in the session or any of the activity in IEDIF help each other and productive ways and don't even the their discussion is it might have a disagreement even the their discussion is it might have a disagree or it's something it's not on your wish but um we we need to keep it as a productive discussion and making the talk correct Yes, next page please And these are the links to Meetecho which used to be a Jabber It's to Judith now and the note takers. I think it's is this still using an etherpad or a different system? anyway for the note takers? And do we have a note takers? We do. Okay Next page. Who are they? Just so we know? So kathleen moriarty and Michael richardson are taking notes. Thank you Thank you both. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "Next page, please Yes, we have about one, two, three four, five, six, seven, seven slides And it's one hour session, but it's seven slides. It should be, we should be have, should be having enough time As the next page, please So we start from a suit manifest format and suit many, I think So we start from this slide or who is going to talk about many manifest, brendan moran? No, I think we want to give a quick chair status though. Oh, I see. Okay So draft is updated to 26, and it's submitted to I No, I think we want to give a quick chair status though. Oh, I see. Okay. So draft is updated to 26 and it's submitted to ISD for publication. And from the last time in I-DF-119, we did agree to change the suit install sequence number from 12 to 7 from 7 20, but it's still um, um, the draft and and there's about a few discusses. It's not still pending and there's one home from Iana comments yes that's the status of the draft right now So we need to get these issues addressed so that the draft can move forward Trust events? and yes and the next is the trust domain domains"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Yeah, trust domain is version 07 now and it's submitted to ISC for publication We just said this yesterday, so Deb, I think it's in your queue. Yeah. You did I have it. Thank you so that's a good news so And another thing is firmware encrypt This was the most of the activity happened from ITIP-119 to one that's a good news. So, and another thing is firmware encryption. This was the, most of the activity happened from ITIP-119 to 120. And we submitted to IESG for publication in July and Indiana review is okay at the moment. And there's one one draft depends on the firmer encryption is AITIF-Cose key thumbprint But this is also in a good, reasonable shape It's waiting for AD follow-up, AD-Go go-ahead and AD follow-up I think Paula is the responsible AD there there Yes And probably this will be yeah, Hannes or Ken might be talking And the next secure reporting update. So this is the version 09 It's in working group last call at last time at IETIP-119 And we need to go this is some homework we haven't done from 119 to 120 We need to write this write up and do the review, share review Right, so we'll do the within the next you know week or so after the IETF and get this movie"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "forward And the next draft is the strong assertion of the IOT network access requirement it's a typically people call suit mud And this is also depends on the same cost-key thumbprint draft And this is also, also it's supplemented IESG for publication publication and yes and and this is depends on the suit manifest Ina review is just, yeah, version change And there was a discussion on 1-1-19 that whether we use our URI or I-II and we agreed to keep it as a URI after the IETF on that 119 one nine and i think that's how Brendan was wrote in the slide for this session And next page please And the draft month in the slide for this session. And next page please. And the draft mandatory to implement algorithm for the suit manifest It's too long, so I call it SUTMTI to implement algorithm for the suit manifest. It's too long, so I call the suit MTI. And, yes, this draft depends on the formal encryption And yeah, it's in it's in working group consensus, so right up will be will be needed by Dave Oote, Dave W needed by dave w yeah yeah and i i apologize for this this has been in my queue for some time. I've started on the right-out and I'm hoping to wrap it up by the end of this week Yeah. In the last one is update, update management exchange"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "for suit manifest. Yes And this is sorry, Kerry, go ahead. Yeah. And this this this draft we need more feedback that's what we discussed from one night and it's we're waiting for more feedback in a review. I mean I don't know if Hank's in the room, but he volunteered less time to do a review and we haven't seen that review review Hank is in the room What? I see, I saw, I heard Hank talking when we were sitting up the He's in the room. He's in the room definitely on this draft, if we can get anyone in the room to volunteer to give this a review we really don't feel comfortable moving it ahead and calling consensus until we get a little bit more review on it So if you're interested in reviewing, if you could, make yourself known This is MTI or the update draft? This is the management extensions Yeah, suit update. Yeah, suit update Suit update Anchor members now now Thank you in advance, Hank for your review All right, well, we can talk about this again when we get to that part of the agenda agenda So we move to the slide and how changed the slide. All right You. There you go Brendan, are you in the room? I'm in the room. Oh, nice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "So Nice. So, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I think Dave is running the slot So if you say next slide, he'll change it for you. Sounds good Okay, so as I think that's chairs have already mentioned, there are a bunch of discussion So I think Dave is running the slide. So if you say next slide, he'll change it for you. Sounds good. Okay, so as I think the chairs have already mentioned, there are a bunch of discusses on the suit manifest We have done our best to address them I think they are mostly fixed. Next slide, please So I'm going to go through some of these changes just to give a flavor of what's been addressed. So we added a couple of new definitions of one of the particular changes that was requested by ORI was that we reference hash data elision So we now have a definition specifically that is referenced that because of the proliferate of the term severable element throughout the document it would have been a really major change to report that with elision everywhere and as a result what we've just done is defined it in that way There were also some questions about the content around wanting to have a recipient MACA manifest and then store that MAC as an authentication technology rather than having a signature barrier verification on every use This is a specifically bootloader context solution, and it's for constrained devices So we've added some no bootloader context solution and it's for constrained devices. So we've added some notes on exactly what the scenario is that you would be looking for to make that choice Next slide, please Yeah, so the severable elements thing showed up in a couple of places and so there we added some more clarify on the use of severable elements and the relationship between that and elision"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "There were a couple of concerns about the exact terminology used in the abstract machine's pseudocode definitions I've renamed statements to expressions I guess a statement is a very old term for code, whereas an expression would be more recent So I've changed that. Hopefully that clarifies things A little bit of clarification around exactly what it means to run parallel processing in the manifest parser that clarification hopefully with a bit of terminology around the use of barriers and draining and filling the command Q or command pool will hopefully make it clear exactly what's going on in that scenario Of course, that will need to go back to the which was that, that was the art review, I think, and hopefully we'll get some clarification that that is okay now. Next slide, please So this is one of the more controversial ones, I think So obviously we've talked about URIs versus IRAs at IETF 119 But regardless of that, there was still a concern in one of the discusses about exactly what it was going to mean for URI in suit for internationalization So we've clarified in the suit manifest that suit in suit are specifically there to be machine readable and that they are specifically UTF8. And I'm hoping that between those two things it is clear exactly what the context is around these URIs and that we've also explained that it is exactly the same encoding as C-BOR tag 32 just without the tag because we don't need a tag since we already know from the context that it's a URI"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Hopefully that makes everything clear And hopefully that removes any concerns about internationalization of the URI URIs But again, that's going to take another round of feature I think. Do you want to take comments? yes please okay dave thaler Hey so I commented on this at IETF 119 but once we say that it's more machine access only, right, then it's just bytes where technically it's asking, right? You can have percent in code of things, but why do we need to say that the percentage? encoding is specifically UTF8 if it's only machine access? So why was that necessary? Well, I guess my take on that is that it doesn't have to be percent encoded, honestly, if it's UTF8 But, I mean this is so far down into the implementation details I'm just, I'm a little bit, since it's machine readable only it's, it's, it's, to be percent encoded, percent encoded. I don't know Thanks. Your eyes by definition constrain the character set, right? Yeah. And so the only way to do UTF8 outside of ASCII is to proceed encode them. And so once you're already have that once you already say this URI, then anything about, you know, is it UTF8, what you're really saying is somehow the percent encodings encode UTF8 bytes instead of something else. Why do we care? Well, that's what I'm trying to say. We don't care. It's just a container. I know, but then I'm saying better proposal. I'll take it. I don't know what I'm asking is, why do we need to clarify that suit your eyes or UTF8? I don't know, I can delete that if it's not needed That's all I'm saying is I don't see any reason that that's needed once you say that it's a URI and once you say it is designed for machine access, it's not going to be parsed into some string and you're not going to try to match the string"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "based, match some segment to the string based on something Then I don't think you need to say what it is, right? It's just yeah, because your eyes are asking Okay, well, I can, I, I'm happy to delete the line that says it's UTF8. Right, I, well, unless, somebody else out there says, no, I want the UTF8 in there, here's why I'm happy to listen. So I was one of the people that was arguing during the to just say, say it's machine access only, you don't do any matching, you just resolve the URIs and there's nothing else You don't have to say anything else, I think think So are you having to follow? I just don't care I I just don't care So it may be useful to actually look at how co-ab uses URIs because this sometimes will be used with co-ab and saying your eyes are ASCII or UTI or UTIF 8 is really confusing because URIs eyes in their percent encoded form are ASCII But that's not interesting The interesting thing is what the UI means and in co-app we decided to actually do the percent encoding before we, a percent decode before we send the thing on the wire So you will not say C percent AB, you will see one byte that has the hex value AB And in COAP, we decided these URIs are these decoded URIs, are UTS 8. So if you want to use co-ab, it's a pretty good idea to have this restriction that the decoded URIs are UTIF So I would argue for keeping that restriction in there. But I must you should clarify it that this is not the percent encoded thing, which is by definition ASCII, but the percent decoded form of the UI should decode to U2FH"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "So can I clarify, Karsten, in the Sevor URI tag, tag 32 does that specify whether percent encoding is used or not? I don't know. I have to look it up up Okay. Well, I tried That's useful Carson, maybe you could look that up and clarify on the list for us Yes, sure. Appreciate it thank you. I think we have David. How important is take 32 for you? We have, we've got gavin brown I just wanted to make sure that we're not but when I see this as suit you are I we're not but when I see this as suit your eyes are UTF8 my immediate thought is oh they're not actually URIs but arbitrary UTF8 strings that are UTI, you are And I wonder if what is the function we'd be clarifying, are these actually URI-R-I? like. And I wonder if that's the function we'd be clarifying, are these actually URIs, or are you saying by putting the UTF8 in here? this string actually is allowed to have UTF8 character? in it URIs are these actually URIs, or are you saying, by putting the UTF8 in here, this string actually is allowed to have UTF8 characters in it? Your eyes are S-key. Well, what I'm saying is that is the intent of this field that actually that it's not actually a URA but something else? What do you mean, Brandon, I guess? the intent of this field is it's a resolvable point to an object that your device can fetch That's the intent. If you've got a I thought that a URI was the optimal thing to use there, but given that URIs are as ASCI encoded and the internet is, increasingly not ASC encoded perhaps there's a better option URIs still are asking even on the internet though, so Right, but CRIs are not right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "So, you know, it comes down to what should be used here. And I, personally wouldn't select a CRI, generally speaking, if you are dealing with data that is predominantly as ASCY, because, well, they're bigger But maybe with internationalization it makes more sense. I don't know michael richardson in the mic, I looked it up. Whatever it 89, 49, and it does not say. Okay It refers to 39, whatever the URI definitions So I would think it means it's percent encoded Yep. That's what I would take from it which means you can't string compare them. Right Because there could be percent encodings anywhere. Yep. Right. All right i'd like to go to dave thaler and then we're going to have to move on. We'll have to take the rest of this to the list Yep. Okay I was just going to summarize. I paste it into chat what the, that the of the document, and there's like two or three of them, but they're basically the same, right? And this is what friends are referring to where it says a UTF8 encoded URI reference and references RFC 3986. I'll just read it once you're reference 3986, you don't need to say UTF is what friends are referring to where it says a utf8 included uri reference and references rfc 3986 okay i'll just read it once you're reference 3986 you don't need to say utf8 encoder you can say a uri reference rfc 3986 right because that's saying it's ASC and any internationalization is done at the time that you're presenting code and what appears in the suit manifest is percent encoded stuff and whether it came from UTAF8 or something else. The suit cursor has no clue and doesn't need to because it's just going to resolve it So I think just deleting UTF8 encoded is fine here so okay so just delete that line and move on Just delete those words, right? The rest of the sentence is fine It could be that specifically because it references 3986 and that references what answers the question perfect let's let's do that That sounds like a way forward, right and clear? I think the conclusion is we stop saying that it's UTF8 and move on All right. Well, let's move on with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the slide then all right Right. So one of the things that came up during a conversation with an implementer was that there wasn't actually any reference in the manifest document to an optimization I thought we all knew about. And so I have put an explanation of that optimization into the suit manifest document So what this is specifically is that you don't always have to go and fetch a copy of a payload if you know that you already have it. And there are a couple of ways you could do that, but essentially if you have it and you've got the right hash, you already have it So there's no sense in downloading it again. And so I've put that explicitly into the suit manifest now so that it is clear to implementers which it evidently was not that this is an optimising that's available to you. And that applies to both fetch and copy Next slide, please So there were a number of bits of feedback on the IANA considerations There was specifically the comment that where we used expert review, we also said that there needed to be done documentation about exactly what the expert was reviewing And so specification required sounded more like what we actually wanted, taken that on board and changed it from expert review to specification required We've added reserved to all the zero indices because we reserved all the zero indices. Previously, that wasn't documented as reserved. There were also a number of elements which were listed as reserved, but there was no explanation as to what they were reserved for. So we've deleted all of those then there was a recommendation that we considered changing from the media type from application suit envelope to application suit envelope plus COSI"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "The reasoning being that there is a hypothetical future in which we use an authentication mechanism other than COSI And so that seemed reasonable so I've added that I think that, yeah, outstanding issue well it turns out that there is one outstanding issue and I just want to go back to the chairs for a moment because my recollection of suit 19, or of IETA, 119 was that there was no consensus on changing the on changing the suit install key by that was my preference at the time but there was in my recollection at least, disagreement from the room and when I checked the notes I didn't find that agreement in the notes. So I didn't check it on that basis, otherwise I would have If we do, in fact, have consensus for change the key, I will happily go and do that immediately But I didn't know that that was an option that was on the table, so to speak. Yeah my recollection of this was there was definitely some leaning towards making the change, but we talked with the AD during the 119 meeting. And, you know, were some concerns raised around how far the draft was with making that change. We had a conversation with them afterwards and had the go ahead to go ahead and make that change so unless they're in far the draft was with making that change. We had a conversation with them afterwards and got to go ahead to go ahead and make that change. So unless there are any objections, we can go ahead and make that change. Yes. Okay, understood um not having been there i didn't have that conversation and it wasn't in the notes. Yeah, that was that was the written in in the list after the idea form 119. Okay, all right, thank you Yeah, so if you can make that quick update, that would be appreciated. And I think we're ready to move forward. Well, I mean, I don't, can I publish? drafts now? I can't remember. Yes okay. So then I can make that, you know, to, well my laptops over there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "we'll get you back to it soon soon All right. Thank you, Brendan So I think that's the end of that one. So you're going to make the changes republish the draft have you gone back to the people that filed the discusses to tell them that? you've updated it? No Can we do that? Yes. That'd be awesome because then they will know to check yes okay we'll do And clear their discusses and maybe you will be good to go. Awesome That would be amazing. Right. All right Nice right perfect nice is this you too oh hannis I'm sorry, I skipped trust of it we're doing trust domains domains So close. Next slide, please Great, yeah, nothing's changed. There's no known issues Next slide, please Right, so there was a bit of feedback from last time, and I'm just going to go through it again so that it's clear where we're at. So we had feedback from an implementation and the implementer said, well, you might change, trust domains between fetch and install And if you do that, you have to verify again And that was something that we hadn't to reduce you might change trust domains between fetch and install. And if you do that, you have to verify again. And that was something that we hadn't originally considered in suit. So that caused a bit of a, well, essentially caused the upheaval about renaming or re-keying suit in installed. So if that's the case, then what that means, is that we actually missed an ontological distinction here. We have an update procedure, but that's actually composed of two things. First, you have to obtain the firmware that you're going to install, and then you have to install it. So there's actually two different procedures here and we had missed that. And so now what we're proposing essentially is to divide those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "apart, add a new command sequence which allows us to do that pre-verification And then once we've done that pre-verification, then we can go ahead and do the install So that's where the re-keying discussion came from last time. We've added this new suit candidate verification to allow that to go forward. And I believe at this point, with those changes, we are ready to publish this particular draft. I think it should be good to go I'm sorry the chris wendt through a lot of slides I forget exactly what the status on has IESG was. We requested publication of this. And this draft is already been updated you know to reflect the 17 to 20, you know, key change So we should be good to go there. Yep. So this is the one that's in my queue today right yes Yes. I have one question dave thaler is, um, you, you, this right up in is that finished? Is it or it's in the middle? Oh, I lock the key Let me unlock it That was a question to me, I don't know the answer. I'm just here to look good That's not true actually Yeah, that was to you, Dave Now you have people in the gate. No said, if that was a question to me, I don't know the answer so you wrote the shepherd write up for it. Could you just verify that it's complete? and ready to go? Is that a record? for me to do future work, or are you asking about what I did before? We're asking about what you did before. Okay how do I do that? You could just go to the Datatracker and read the Shepherd right up that you wrote and make sure that it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "The reason I asking is the no from 119 is, yes, you mentioning, you act as a document server as a volunteer so, and whether you have to update it or was that already finished? that time. Okay, and just to be clear, where talking about which document right now, so I'll make sure I'll be the right one Customs domain Okay, I'm just making sure, because we've gone back and forth in a couple of For what it's worth, we reviewed it before we submitted it to Deb so we felt that it looked like it was ready to go I'm looking at it right now Just let us know if there's any issue with it. So, Dave, you do have some TBDs in that Shepard Road up. That's what I was just going to say. It still has a couple of TBDs Well, you have time because I haven't read the draft yet Okay how soon are you going to read the draft? draft? All right, the two ones are just the ID Knits tool and are there any informative references that should be normative or vice versa? Both of those should be really easy to update, so that's doable this week so. Okay or vice versa? Both of those should be really easy to update. So that's doable this week. So not a problem. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. So you're going to do that, Dave? I'm going to update the doctor Shepard right up this week yeah just to fill in those 2dbDs DVDs. That's right. Okay, I won't read it until you do that, though Okay, well, if you were going to read it this week, that would matter when I would do it, but I'm guessing you're going to be busy this week It's not going to be this week, so you're fine thanks dave thanks And thank you, Brendan Thank you. Thank you. Thank you You might have two documents, then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "Right. So that was an honest Yeah, now it's Honest Honest Honest Okay it's honest. Okay, next one. So here's this status, luckily the document is in very good shape So no open issues that I'm aware of has been submitted for publication in, there was, there was, there were re- so no open issues that I'm aware of has been submitted for publication in there was there was there were review comments which I addressed in a the latest version, which is submitted in time for the submission deadline We have also, um, which I think should make all the examples, there are a couple of, there are lots of examples in there, and some of them are full-blown examples so I augmented them with a description and also with line number, so to focus the description on specific line numbers, I added some inline comments in the end of the line numbers as well. So that should be pretty good I think. It's in working group last call I mean, it's in, it's an IETF last call. I'm sorry Okay, that's been, I submitted it, it's due to be finished IETF last call on the 2nd of August There's this dependency on Koseki-Sramper, which is also further along, which is good so that's all positive of course it depends on the suit manifest So in that sense, it will be blocked be blocked but okay that's fine next slide Just to reflect a little bit on like what we've actually done that was a little fast what we have done after like a few years of work so in essence we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "come up with a mechanism to encrypt all the payloads whether that's firmware, we channelized it to software, the software is a configuration data, and so on. We've then sort of made use of it in deep It's a very generic mechanism. For the key agreement, we provided two mechanisms in there. One was based on AES key wrap for me if you use symmetric keys and ephemeral static Diffie Hellman, if you want to use public key based cryptography. So that's covers a lot basically our selection of from the offered mechanism in COSI so that's that's good the instructions for doing the encryption, they are based on the suit manifest and as I said like before the for doing the encryption they are based on the suit manifest. And as I said, like with all the examples in there, that should be good. The examples are working They have been generated with Ken's Lipsey suit implementation. So it's not just made-up examples, so it's like real stuff and there's the link to the code, so you can run it yourself And we've also, in the document address, specifically some of the constraints that we see on, with flash memory or microcontrol with the sectors. We have registered the CBC and C the constraints that we see on flash memory or microcontrollers with the sectors. We have registered the CBC and CDR algorithms in COSI as part of that work and made that work with this document. So the examples also illustrate that and yeah, so it's actually quite some work initially that was part of the suit management specification itself but as it turns out, it's a little bit longer description and we actually had to do far more work than we anticipated so here we are are So quite good, yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "We, for a little while, we got lost with HPKE and then we came back and so another detour And so that would be some more review comments along the way so we'll need to take those into accounts but given the dependency on the previously mentioned document, I think that's we are in good shape on that document Great Thank you. I don't know what's next Next is the suit report You'll all be sick of me by the time we're done here Next slide, please Yeah, no significant change or open issues. Next slide, please We'll talk about what happened last time. There wasn't much It was an addition of failure reasons. Failure reasons were just the various different ways that a suit manifest install or indeed an invocation or secure boot could go wrong So that's what was specifically requested for reporting reasons And then also the ability to carry a capability report in the suit report and what a capability report does is it tells a distribution system or a developer exactly what the device believes it's capable of within the suit context. There's a lot of optional to implement capabilities for suit manifest processors, so having a way to determine what they can do is very important for a manifest author I think that's, there's only three slides here Yeah, I think. Yeah So, so, so Akira and I both have committed to like review this draft and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "and you know it looks like there is no new feedback on on the draft. So after we're done with that, we can call consensus and do the shepherd right up and move it forward so hopefully we'll be able to do that soon before the next IETF great I guess we go to the next one, that was fast up and move it forward. So hopefully we'll be able to do that soon before the next IETF. Great. I guess we go to the next one though. That was fast. It's like progress. Absolutely This is mine Don't tell Roman Do we, I don't think we have a slide for this, right? I should do Oh no, there is one There's at the bottom of the list. There we go. There it is Now, did, does mud, did you submit new ones? for this? Um, yeah, um, this slide is, uh, there is one. There's at the bottom of the list. There we go. There it is. Now, did you submit new ones for this? Yeah, this slide is from by, yes I think they sweep the slides and like 20 minutes before the meeting, so if it was submitted after that, it might not have gotten in it's no this is the one, Honest Sub harness submitted. I changed it. He can pull it in though, right? Yeah, that's good. I can quickly go through that so that this is a suit mat document, which we submitted to the IESG ahead of most of the other documents, which was kind of interesting because we started with this work much later so MUT is the manufacturer usage description which describes its work that was done in a different working group, which describes the network behavior or requirements of the software running on it device, like that's the device use, let's say, HTTP-based communication with something? server? Does it require like DNS interactions? and so on? So it's supposed to help network operators to configure firewall settings accordingly. So that was work that was mud itself the mud file and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the manufacturer user description was published in, I don't know which group, but I don't know I don't know one? It was an IAC extension. Oh, okay so, and in this document, next slide In this document, we extended that functionality to specifically secure the way how devices precise this information to the network based on the information provided by the developer So the developer writes the firmware, writes the code for the device which then ends up as firmware with the update on the device. And alongside that manifest is a pointer to the MAD file, which is sort of the core assumption in that document that I think a very recent And alongside that manifest is a pointer to the mud file, which is sort of the core assumption in that document that I think a very reasonable assumption from a deployment point of view like who else is best in a position to this describe what the device is doing other than the development And so, so that's what the document does, next slide. And so here a snapshot from the architecture to show how that works. So at the bottom you have the developer submitting the firmware update with the suit manifest along which includes the mud file, the mud URL in that manifest gets to the device the device needs to make that available to the network for example using the attestation evidence, the work in the RATS group There's a manifest claim defined as part of, for example, EAT so that then gets from the device to the network And the network needs to follow the procedures that are defined in the money specification, which is to talk to this mud manager to get to ultimately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "pick up that file, the mud file, interpret it and configure the firewall rules and then let the network secure the communication in the way that it's appropriate. So that could in that combination, with sort of the combination muds suit, and rats, sort of ends up defining a very secure deployment infrastructure for IoT devices. So that's in another just in case you haven't been following any of that work the last few years Okay so the document that's far long no open issues, doing well, but it's blocked by the suit manifest because it defines an extension for the suit manifest So that's... But you can still progress it, right? Yeah, yeah it's just sitting there and waiting for the other stuff to complete that. It's not in MISRF, is it? It's not... It'll just misrep if you do can still progress it, right? Yeah, yeah, it's just sitting there and waiting for the other stuff to complete. It's not in misrep, is it? It's not. Yeah, right. But you don't have any No, no, it's not. It'll just misrep if you can. Yeah, right. But you don't have any blocking discusses on this document anymore. So that's good I mean, really all you just need to do is upissue it. Tell Roman Yeah. Because he can push it along, right? Okay, then I'll do that. Is there value to which? until Manifest goes through to do this? It's almost completely your talking about that the conversation if you could come to the mic Sorry Brendan at the mic. There is very little in suit in mind that actually references the manifest in any way It is simply a container that lives with the manifest. And because of that I think it's pretty reasonable to say that we don't really need to hold it for anything. Changes in the manifest more affect it. So you just need to go to Rome and say it's ready to go? Because Roman's holding it. I understand, yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "I mean, but it still can't get published before the suit manifest. No, but neither can the rest of them, right? I mean, everything hinges on the manifest draft anyway It can basically sit in with a misrep in the ROC edit of you. And he's ready to go for manifest, so you must as well go ahead and move this along, right? So just tell Roman it's ready. Okay Because he's holding it, not me. Oh, really? Okay We will track him down i think minimally we want the manifest, the MTI, you know, Oh, really? Okay. We will track him down. I think minimally we want the manifest, the MTI, and this probably to go out together, right? Right, but you can cue them all up so that they hit the street at the same time as soon as manifests works its way through Yeah. Manifest still has discusses on it, right? So this one doesn't. This one's just a non-blank comments. You should just up it and go So who's taking the action? to talk with Roman? Can we note that? Thank you, Honest All right, so next we have MTI Clear the stuff like now It's the cold We're getting close. Okay, suit MTI Next slide, please All right, again, no major changes And now there are no known issues. There were last time We'll cover that in a moment. Next slide, please Okay, so there was a minor error and what it was was that the algorithm identifier was that that indicates the encryption or the key encapsulation algorithm that's used was not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "changed when we switched from HKDF to a 128 key wrap so that has been updated now and that was the last known outstanding issue to the MTF draft. Next slide, please Just to clarify where we are today, what we have is six algorithm profiles divided into four groups So there's a symmetric algorithm profile for very constrained devices We've got two different current algorithms which differ only in the use of ECE 256 or EC EDDSA. Then we have two AEAD algorithms, again, both current and again they differ in ECD ECDSA-256 or EDDSA but they also differ in the AEAD algorithm that's used because we know that Chacha Polly goes very frequently with EDDSA, so if that is what a user or an implementer wants, then they probably need that profile. It seems to be pretty widespread Then we've also added the future asymmetric constrained algorithm. The reason I call this constrained is because all the other PQC signing algorithms are substantially more complex and larger than HSS algorithms are substantially more complex and larger than HSSLMS, with the possible exception of Falcon that's not been standardized yet So that's the slate that we currently have for MTI algorithms. I should clarify that what MTI means in this scenario is that it's mandatory for an author to implement these It is not meant and for an intermediate system to implement these. Devices must implement one, not all of them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "just one So I'm in the mic without a hat Okay. So your future asymmetric suite is not what I would call matchy matchy. No, I agree You know what matchy-matching means right? So the fact that you're using a AES 128-bit key wrap, but then an AES-256-book counter mode's not right that's not right 256 in both cases That's not right. But then you're using Shaw-256, which is also not matching matching. So the shot is an explicit choice to deal with the explosion that you get in HSSLMS. Okay that's okay he says. Okay, that's fine Thank you Yeah, key wrap should be two for six. So there's a typo there, okay, that's fine I'll make sure direct in the draft and that they're both 256 Thanks, brendan moran. Richardson, we have another Go ahead, Michael. michael richardson the mic. So I was actually, I did a present a couple weeks ago about this actual list to an internal group And I actually didn't figure out how to match the future asymmetric, the HSS element weeks ago about this actual list to an internal group. And I actually didn't figure out how to match the future asymmetric, the HSS LMS, to the HSS LMS document's list of criteria Okay. Probably that's my ignorance of understanding part of it. And so I was like, well, like this has this table with these questions and you have these answers and I just couldn't match the two of them So probably that to me says that there's some missing text to explain it I also didn't really understand why in that case there was an AES listed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "Okay, I guess that's for encrypted firmware. Yes. So, but I don't understand quite quite so so that means that's going to be a symmetric key only that the device has to know to unkey wrap. That's correct, and essentially the problem that we face in this group is that there are no standardized PQC key encapsulation mechanisms that would match for this. We don't have any There are no constrained ones at all. And as a result, this is what we're stuck with. If someone's comes up and presents a constrained, PQ key wrap algorithm, then we would obviously pick that up. But right now, there aren't any standardized. So the other thing that I found was a little bit confusing on a naive read was I was like well I just care about signatures why do I, why is, so I don't think I have to implement AES key rap if I'm not encrypting firmware. That's correct Unless, unless you're also doing encrypted reporting. If you are sending reports back and you want those encrypted, then you need to implement that So I actually think that that means that there is another dimension of M2 that I think so I would really split split things up these may be good, you know, these go together nicely in their security properties, okay, but that you know you don't need this unless you're doing this and you don't need this unless you're doing this other thing I'm pretty certain that we had some words in there specifying that you didn't have to implement the encryption algorithms. My rereading of the document for your four weeks ago, I was like, wow, this is a really short document document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "Isn't that nice? So I think maybe the weeks ago, I was like, wow, this is a really short document. Isn't that nice? So I think maybe there's just maybe a few more words that need to go in there and I'll try to suggest some but I just I didn't know what to suggest because I didn't really understand why did I need to implement them all and I also didn't figure out how to match things well the matching thing sounds like that needs addressing so yeah take a look at that. I think I sent you an email, but I know you're busy. You were busy at this time. So, yeah great thank you rest i think we missed you in the queue. Yeah Go ahead Go ahead. It's all right. We'll give you a pass pass pass Thank you, Russ. So. So what I think is the situation is signature or integrity in that first case it's integrity based on the HMAX with a pre-shared key, and then if you're doing encryption you're doing a key management and a cycle And so if you think of the first two columns as required and the other only needed if you're doing encryption then you in each direction. Yes Then this makes sense. And I thought there were words that said I thought so too but now you've got me questioning myself I could be the one hallucinating I may be in AI but but so that also suggests to me, though, that there may actually be different choices for different directions. That's possible but we are talking about constrained notes. That may be silly but not every node is as constrained as other nodes And the report, you know, we have the business of I'm downloading the suit manifest in my richer environment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "Okay and then my bootloader is doing all the other stuff and then it generates the report, puts it in flash, and I may have a richer environment that I can upload with. Yeah So I think that maybe there's some nuance there that I think is really worth outlining specifically because well, product line managers are dumb So they're freaking out about things that they don't don't to freak out about there absolutely is some nuance there but the change that we have is if we don't set up profiles then we end up with a lot of different permutations of exactly what's in implemented. Yeah, yeah, I agree with you. And so the point here is to try and restrict the combinatorial explosion and to lay out specific profiles that you should use And if we start, saying, well, if you're going download, it's this one, but if you're doing upload, it's this other one we can end up in a situation pretty quickly where things don't work out very well. So, so maybe this is enough, okay? Isn't this lie? the second plus which is essentially between the, if you look at behind you, right? The second plus is between the signature and the encryption Maybe just change that to a comma For sure. Okay. And because it sort of implies there's yes this is a paired thing and there's two of them okay, but it's not a this plus this plus this, comma, and this plus this. And maybe that would be you know, enough to make people recognize that for different parts. Sounds good. We'll put some commas in Brennan, are you pretty clear on what needs to be done here? I think so i think we need to make sure that it matches with HSS LMS specifically, that make sure that that's clear And we need to put some commas in That's the conclusion, I think that's what I was hearing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "All right, anything else? I think that's it. We have just a minute left. Let's see if we have I can do update management real quick. About, what, three minutes? All right, next slide, please No, major change Next slide, please All right, so the, just to recap from last time, really, it was just about what the semantic versions mean in this this draft so what we've done is added a version for the manifest, so it now has a dedicated spot. You can version an update or rather the whole tree of manifests by put added a version for the manifest. So it now has a dedicated spot. You can version an update or rather the whole tree of manifests by putting a version in the top level manifest And added a text version as well then a little bit of clarification around what exactly the pre-release indicator means because of course semantic versions can have a whole string of things after a pre-release indicator. So we want to be able to represent that And so that's all merged in now as well. And as far as I can tell, this one is waiting just for some more review, because right now, as it stands, we've had review from one implement and this was what they brought up and other than that, I think we just need some more review Right, again so anyone who would be interested in reviewing this draft, you know, please raise your hand, step up to the mic, let us know We need your review review Update management. So, Dave, if you get to the point where you're stuck for reviews, you can always put in an early review. So you can do an early sector review or an early review from other places that you think would be useful. Yeah, I think I may do that More reviews as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "review, so you can do an early sector review or an early review from other places that you think would be useful. Yeah, I think I may do that. That would be more reviews as well. Thanks for the suggestion I think, uh, sorry, did I miss something? in the room no no it's just me to be too far from them moment. All right, well thanks, Brendan Thank you, everyone So I think at this point we're more or less done with a suit at I8F120s So thanks, everyone, and we hope to see you at the next IETF meeting Thank you. Thanks, Deb Yeah, thank you It was a very good session this time time Thank you, Akira. So Akira, we should probably sync up late this week, early next week. Yeah, yes. My prefer late this week. Okay Do you want to email me some times? and then and then we'll do that yes all right sounds good thank you you Much better than I expect it. We're actually making some progress Yes. You are. Good job. We are All right. And I'm active session, too. Indeed all right thanks Thank you you"
  }
]
