[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:19",
    "text": "okay everybody Magnus just joined over mideco which just means we are ready to go say you have only me here in person and a bigger version on the screen we presented a for you okay let\u0027s start the session this is a note well I hope you have seen this by now please respect the not well and read the respective documents if you don\u0027t know what I\u0027m talking about this is our agenda today we have a one-hour slot so we have like the usual updates we have already a note-taker that\u0027s Martin thank you I will watch the job a little bit and I think blue sheets are also running so that\u0027s great I go through the usual slides what\u0027s going on in the area and then we have like a few adjustment points the chairs would like to the 80s would like to talk about then we have about like 20 to 25 minutes to talk about what\u0027s going on and quick and what\u0027s coming next and then we potentially have an open mic session at the end depending on how much you want to talk about quick so first of all I just realized that I missed up the slide when you can\u0027t read half of it but we would like to think our review team so that has been working very well for the last like year or two or something like that we have like three November\u0027s that sky-high rolls in sweat and Martin Duke very welcome on the team and thank you very much for your service and we have one person stepping down that\u0027s Allison I don\u0027t think I see her yet but she has been on the on the area Directorate forever she\u0027s doing very good reviews but she said it\u0027s time to step down and let the new people do it so thank you everybody for doing this service thank you for doing this valuable revisits were really good for the 80s it\u0027s really good for the documents Thanks this is the status of the working group I don\u0027t think we have to go through everything in detail one announcement is that in the next months before the Vancouver meeting the MP TCP working group will actually close this time for real they finish their Charter they published all the documents and any additional or any future MP TCP work can like go back to the TCP em working group into maintaining state so that\u0027s very good I also want to announce that I have appointed a new working group chair it for nfsv4 working group so that\u0027s actually accomplished yeah anything else "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "we need to say about I don\u0027t think so this okay yes we have a couple of new documents in the editor cute this looks like as if we didn\u0027t do any work there was no new RFC published between now and in the last meeting but like they are about to be published the stuff that was in the editor took you from last time so there\u0027s that like as always steady progress was a couple of of documents okay that\u0027s the usual part quick chance for like questions no yeah then I would like just to take the opportunity to remind everybody that like we also have a code of conduct in the IETF and like I think especially in the transport area we have usually a very good atmosphere I really enjoy working with you guys but like we also have some media discussions sometimes and and we all have to remind ourselves from time to time that like we reshape this community we can influence like in this community how we want to work here and we can be active about it we can like figure out how we want to behave ourself but we can also talk to others about it and when we all can do something to make this a nicer and better community that we like to work in and that\u0027s really important Magnus and I also talked quite a bit about sharing in the transport area area so for the last at least two years we actually didn\u0027t get any new working groups the situation was very stable but that also meant that we couldn\u0027t like get any new people in to share positions to get experience about sharing and this is usually a really good opportunity to train up new people who also might become 80 at some point and but we didn\u0027t have this opportunity so we also sought about maybe you know rotating chairs a little bit I was thinking was actually that the cup of coops we have that like two long lasting maintenance work that\u0027s the groups where you can actually exchange chairs from time to time and work in like kind of train up new chairs while like small very focused groups you might want to have more continuous tea but we also you know we also to make any kind of decisions we try to talk to the chairs of course we try to talk to the community but like also if there\u0027s any feedback or any conflicts or problems we should know about you really need to talk to us and provide input to this and of course you can also raise your hand if you would be interested in sharing and be more involved in that so we try to like have an eye on that we try to manage the things as good as possible and we will see if there\u0027s some movement in the in the next month "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:37",
    "text": "we can\u0027t utilize it so but this light is also up not only to request feedback and to inform you about it but also to ask you about what your opinions is about what should we do like how often should we exchange chairs when should we exchange or certain tribute to it at all like if you have any thoughts you have a chance to speak up now if you would like to okay you\u0027re all happy Spencer Dawkins one of the one of the things that I wish I had done differently is transport Area Director was explicitly asking for key lives from people in positions that are serving the community because we recognize that there are other people who could serve but people don\u0027t don\u0027t want to let the community down by saying you know I\u0027m not gonna do this anymore but just it you know it might be it might be helpful to just ask people from you know periodically are you willing to continue in this role you know are is continuing this role the right thing for you because other people could do it and that might be that might be easier than asking off all the working group chairs want to be rotated yes I mean that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to do we\u0027re not like firing anybody straight we\u0027re trying to talk to the chest no we don\u0027t did it on a very frequent basis and but maybe that\u0027s something to change Ellen Jennings xad very very long xad with Magnus I just I think this is awesome to this I think ITF as a whole should get more to the policy of we replaced chairs because we\u0027re growing new people who are good not because we were getting rid of old people who were bad and that would make a much more positive thing and would have to be done systematically across areas and I mean many areas I won\u0027t mention this one in particular have had less than the number of ADEs possibility that we want at various times and we need to grow those people and we get them from the chairs so we should get you know yes I mean no Ronnie how long have you chaired some of your working groups like forever and you\u0027ve done an awesome job but but could we have trained more new people and had a better pool of people that would be a great thing thank you this hope we can actually up on the is you on Sunday and it will reflect it back so transport we\u0027re actually quite small area and we don\u0027t have that many positions but that\u0027s also a good remark for the general consideration yep okay and then we also we thought we talked the opportunity to tell you a little bit about the ports "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:38",
    "text": "registry because it\u0027s also in the responsibility of the transport area or the transferred area directors actually so first of all we would like to take the opportunity as well to say a big thanks to those people as well because they do have a constant load we have like we get requests like every week and there and they review them and they have to look up documents and they go for some back with the requesters so there is actually a significant load here thank you very much to these people but then we\u0027ve been also trying to be in touch with them and figuring out how to make the process more smooth or like figuring out where the problems are so we\u0027ve been discussing about potentially also updating some of the guidance documents we have around import registries because we see for example very often that we get requests that are only for a closed domain and not for the internet as a whole but also it\u0027s not clear you know it\u0027s not defined somewhere what\u0027s the what\u0027s the closed domain or this is actually not spared I was out explicitly we get a lot of requests where people actually don\u0027t need a fixed port they could use some kind of discovery mechanism or some kind of dynamic port range and so we would like to provide more guidance about these kind of things there potentially might be a new document coming up so just to make it work and to like get the point a little bit closer to you we also have some numbers so that\u0027s the numbers of requests we got for the last two years and as you can see it\u0027s a total of about hundred I think if I don\u0027t miss the math completely up so about hundred requests and about that of them gets assigned but of course all of them have to be reviewed of course they\u0027re like they are not equally spread out over the year but as you can see they\u0027re actually like whicker\u0027s kind of on a weekly basis basically one of the things we\u0027ve observed in other registries is that telling people no just means that they use the code points anyway why is there such a high proportion of these that are rejected so actually this is another thing I would like to thank the experts for because they not only say no they do a lot of like protocol Design Consultant there a lot of because it\u0027s just like very random protocol requests we get right everybody thinks they need a port for they did a tiny protocol they use between their two computers one of the lessons we\u0027ve learned is that if you if you put the experts in a position of defender of the product that the the internet architectural purity or what have you you know with this situation right here and that looks good because it means that you\u0027re only getting the protocols that you think of a legitimate from what some definition of legitimate I mean we were trusting the judgment of those people on that to a large extent but what we\u0027re also doing is driving people into patterns of use that may be destructive which is in several "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:39",
    "text": "instances of camping this week we have a lot of cases where some of the mechanism that has been developed in the ITF to actually discover ports could easily be used and people don\u0027t know about it so giving them a hint about it right that\u0027s like that\u0027s what the experts are very often do it\u0027s very useful that\u0027s the answer I was looking for thank you I was going to say exactly what Mira says a lot of this is diverting people to other specs that means they don\u0027t actually need to reports they maybe only need one or maybe they don\u0027t need anything just need a discovery mechanism and it\u0027s a sparse space I mean it\u0027s not like it\u0027s not like it\u0027s filling up tomorrow but it\u0027s a limited space it\u0027s not like an infinite space here Magnus you want to add something no but at the same time I have these requests rate etc I think we still we have we are nowhere near of filling with the current request rate with no world near of filling the available space in the next 50 years but it is so limited but not that fast and I think it\u0027s something that could be discussed or saying the if we open up the definition we could actually have the discussion a community of how we want to see certain but certain port requests I think for multi if for example this about multi-vendor large but how in some sense not open Internet usages etc for example so mark oh you can see me I\u0027m I guess Marc Namie I\u0027m just a question clarification I may have missed it if I did I apologize is this requests or is this port numbers these numbers were seeing here it\u0027s requests requests so it may be more important numbers thank you to reinforce something in the fact that we\u0027re looking at 50 years of runway is due in part to this process imposing a reasonable bar on request so that so that the available port resources will stretch out that far in the future and this for first-come first-serve will be running out of ports now Jana and go to Mark\u0027s question it\u0027s it\u0027s unusual but we do receive requests that look like updates to existing ports so that\u0027s so is it\u0027s it\u0027s not more it\u0027s fewer put so but part of kind of maybe updating some of the recommendations we have is that this definition about what\u0027s you know what\u0027s internet wide and window you need a port and we\u0027re not it\u0027s not very clear so that\u0027s definitely something that like the port team is discussing about and we want to have more clarity on okay I think that\u0027s it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:40",
    "text": "from like my part and we switch over to mark but which one no that\u0027s oh yeah sure does it work okay oh that\u0027s that\u0027s comforting so hi my name is Mark Nottingham I\u0027m one of the chairs of quick are we still doing that I thought we were over that okay I\u0027m not a transport person but I do play one on TV Laura\u0027s couldn\u0027t be here so I\u0027m taking his place so status of the work overall we have two of the documents in what we call the late stage process so the working group is agreed to effectively raise the bar for new issues so that we can concentrate our efforts on those documents the other two major documents recovery an HTP are about to join it those documents in the light stage process and we\u0027re seeing the inter up steadily improving over time the plan moving forward is is that we are hoping we can do a working group last call on these documents around the end of the year that may be a little ambitious but that\u0027s that\u0027s a target right now and the idea being that that that may not be the last working group last call these documents and I know that\u0027s problematic for some but we want to send a clear signal to the rest of the community that we think that these documents are in good shape for review let\u0027s get the review from the various folks we\u0027re going to use them and operate them and deploy them and implement them to make sure we\u0027ve got it right and in the meantime we went to after we say issue that working group last call take a period of time where we pause we don\u0027t do a lot of active development on the the issues around the the documents but we try and edit orally improve them but especially get implementation deployment experience the working group really wants to see this protocol get some deployment experience in its current form in its specified form before we ship the RFC\u0027s and so we want to take a pause and probably not send it to the isg until something like the middle of 2020 so this is the current plan for the documents of course all plans can change so we\u0027ll see how it goes and so this brings up you know the notion that the there\u0027s a lot of quick related work that people have questions about and we\u0027ve identified a number of different kinds of things that have come up new versions of quick extensions to quick to core quick applications that use quick other than HTTP of course and other random things that have popped up and so Lars and I\u0027ve been set up a wiki page to track these things on our wiki "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:42",
    "text": "on github so we can have a one place where you can see all the quick related things that might happen one day this is not an official you know commitment to do any of these things it\u0027s just a place to track the status and so I want to go through these things really quickly that was not intentional so first of all versions one of the interesting things about quic is is that the working group sees versioning as a core mechanism that there\u0027s an expectation amongst many people that we will have another version of quick sometime fairly soon and that we want to be able to exercise versioning and quick so that that extension point does not suffice and so there\u0027s a certain amount of desire for this but we\u0027re not quite sure what quick version to will do if quick version to happen soon it would presumably happen in the quick working group but of course we\u0027d need to reach harder to do that so that that\u0027s kind of versioning next up oh that\u0027s smaller type sorry extensions too quick so these are generic extensions to quick they\u0027re not specific to any one application but they\u0027re extending the capability of quick or doing new things and there\u0027s there\u0027s lots of in in this as well we do have some capacity opening up to discuss these things in the working group because as I said we\u0027re gonna take a pause for a little while and so right now just in this meeting we started talking about three drafts a quick load balancers quick version negotiation and quick datagrams and and we\u0027re probably going to put out a call for adoption on at least some of those very soon I think we need some revised drafts and some other discussions but that\u0027s the plan for those there are some other things that people have talked about so for example the lost bits draft we discussed a little bit this week and the multipath which is in our Charter but we don\u0027t have a we have a proposal but we haven\u0027t discussed it much yet and there\u0027s zero RTT bdp stuff which is a little bit newer those are all things that we can consider and other extensions that you may have in mind but there are things that we\u0027ll need to see a draft for we\u0027ll need to have a discussion as a working group so and then have a decision about whether or not we want to adopt that if you have one of these things and we haven\u0027t already discussed it come and talk to Lars and I will try and assess interest in the group try and schedule a time in a meeting whether it\u0027s an interim meeting or and one of the main IETF meetings where you can come and present it to the group to get feedback and we\u0027ll go through a process to decide whether the group wants to adopt it and if so when the appropriate time to do that is we are currently our Charter is fairly restrictive about doing extensions to quick and so to do these things we need to reach Artur we\u0027re just about to start talking about Ray chartering for these three or some subset of them right now and for any additional extensions we\u0027d need to do a recharter as well I think talking to the area director is having a little bit of friction there as good just to pace the work of the group out so we don\u0027t take on too much at one time question mark David Blackwell real quick another one put your radar screen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "there\u0027s a second bits draft in the in the same said general area of exposed some bits so to show what\u0027s going on with with the with the transport protocol it\u0027s only tht we did WG agenda dates it it\u0027s in about the same areas law as lost bits draft okay so the best thing to do is to add them to that wiki now I have a link at the end but anything that you think the working group should at least be tracking the status of added to that wiki and that\u0027s a good place to start and come talk to us and we\u0027ll figure it out and this is definitely not a complete list I\u0027m sure there\u0027s other stuff out there but but the idea and talking the area directors that is is the locus of future extensions to quick what will happen in the quick working group a provided we successfully recharter and and and so forth and so on we need to balance that of course with the core quick version one work that until it ships is always going to take priority but but this is the plan for extensions applications that use quick so this is new applications or existing applications map to use the quick protocol as its transport instead of TCP or in addition to TCP there\u0027s a fair amount of interest here as well of course we saw the web transport buff this week now I\u0027m working group forming but we\u0027ll see how it goes lots of people talking about media in various forms over quick various forms of proxy and tunneling over quick for example mask and other things DNS over quicker net comp over quick and so talking the area directors I think we\u0027ve come to an agreement and and from from the chair standpoint you know we don\u0027t want to take on too much of this or htv-3 was a special case because that was our motivating use case but we don\u0027t want to have some super working group for all applications that happen to use one transport and so the quick working group won\u0027t adopt these you know I think if you want to give people a heads up sure send that email to the list maybe we can give you some as time permits time in a session if you want to advertise what you\u0027re doing but the locus of those discussions shouldn\u0027t happen in the quick working group of course the quick working group will always be available to consults as to the use of quick or at least well the working groups live but we\u0027re not going to actually locate those discussions they\u0027re the appropriate place to take those is going to be to the applications area so dispatch or they already these Martin yeah Mon Thompson I think the point here that\u0027s critical is that we need to think of quick as both TCP to and UDP to and we this area probably doesn\u0027t want to take on all of the work for all the protocols that\u0027s doing that work at at I could have any number of protocols to that that list and your other their absolute and we that\u0027s not gonna that\u0027s not going to scale out we\u0027re going and just as you know we doing it we did a new version of HTTP we did the applications area you know likewise absolutely of course you consult to make sure that\u0027s using the transport well yeah and I think one of the things that will happen here is that the quick working group will will probably necessarily be involved in some of these early efforts so that we can set down good practices and come and make sure that people understand the protocol but as things get rolling that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:45",
    "text": "understanding will spread yeah and there\u0027s no way that we can continue to control everything and yes arias not really and that\u0027s next one point actually I think there\u0027s a lot of stuff we haven\u0027t written down in terms of best practices that one need to work out and that might mean new documents for us but they wouldn\u0027t be specific to those applications they\u0027d be distilling the knowledge that we figure out along the way finally there\u0027s other things things that don\u0027t really fit in any of those buckets terribly well so people you know if talking about the quic network simulator a key log logging format plugin dies quick quick first comm lots of different interesting things I think we just have to take these in a case-by-case basis some of this might belong in ops for example there other places some of it might just be for people\u0027s information but come and talk to us talk to the era directors we\u0027ll figure it out so yeah for more information that\u0027s the wiki page I mentioned quick working group based drafts wiki related activities it\u0027s also linked from the quick working room homepage yeah and so for extensions like I said write a draft bring it to the quick working group that\u0027s a good starting point for applications ready draft bring to the art 80s so Martin Thompson bring it to IDs a lot of the areas in the in the ITF have dispatch processes that I think would be more appropriate than than IDs sure and I wouldn\u0027t necessarily suggest that we suddenly send every single application that ever wants to use quick to Miria and Magnus yes I think I said that\u0027d be unfair yeah that\u0027s a good point to emphasize what every what you had on your application site is actually spread over the whole ITF like an end conf is not in the application area Venus is not in the application there so it\u0027s ATS not only the transport ATS all ladies sure I\u0027m so Martha sort of stole my Thunder as brand new dispatch chair a lot of that stuff I can help dispatch and those questions you know bring together the year sort of our dairy experts who can help find a home including knowing when the stuff doesn\u0027t belong there so it\u0027s not often not a bad step for an application-level protocol like the ones you\u0027ve enumerated so gory fairs done the quick for sat-comm bit just as one thing and that\u0027s art can you speak up just a bit Corey oh yeah I can speak nice and slowly and clearly if I try and on the quick Forrest calm part just as an example there are a number of different pieces in there there\u0027s the idea of perhaps using a proxy for something there\u0027s an idea of perhaps changing a transport parameter there\u0027s maybe some bits that need to be changed on maybe a chain to some mechanism are we doing the right thing putting all that into one bundle and sending it or do you want like a a scattering of small IDs on all these different things how are we going to kind of handle this bit intelligently because I don\u0027t think I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:47",
    "text": "think some of it will need new work some of it could be just looked at and said together this could put in existing work how do we do it so is your intent for us to consider this in quick version one some bits but I think I know what to do it that I think I shall try filing an issue for this exactly if it\u0027s if it\u0027s for quickly in one create issues make them as well described in discrete as you can for things for the future that\u0027s a lot more loose right now I think we\u0027ll take it as it comes if you can compose things into drafts that are just extensions that makes a lot easier of course or just applications or you know some combination thereof if it\u0027s best practices that\u0027s a different kind of document and we have you know we have the opposite manageability documents it\u0027s not clear whether other kinds of how do you use quick documents or in scope for us but we can talk about that right now the working group is heads down and focused on shipping quick version one and so you know as that gets out of the door and as we have that pause I talked about will have more time to step back and think about other things how yeah that\u0027s a good answer a 90 pages some sort of Thank You Spencer Dawkins I noticed one of the things that\u0027s now on the list is whatever the operations operational considerations or management considerations or whatever that as draft so I didn\u0027t know if you had any thoughts about that sure so that\u0027s two drafts and and we had a quick discussion of it again in a discussion of those the other day I think the agreement of the group is is that yes they\u0027re still important yes we\u0027re still working on them but because we\u0027re heads down and quick they\u0027re not getting quite as much attention as as deserve right now again that\u0027s something that we look at working on in the next phase and I think we still want to ship those as we ship the court documents to the isg I think that\u0027s still the plan yeah those are working group items already Spencer yes from the beginning so I guess one of the questions I was going to ask and please don\u0027t answer it now but one of the issues with the management and operational considerations discussion was that there was no place else to have it and the media operations working group recently charter made it 2/3 the way through their first meeting before they started talking about troubleshooting quick there is a place to send this work and make you know and maybe that maybe that\u0027s a good thing to do if you\u0027re talking about rich ordering anyway you all will do the right thing I know that but I ordered a I just wanted to offer there there\u0027s a possibility I think that\u0027s interesting I guess I like the documents in the group right now provided we actually put the effort in because the knowledge is in the group right now so yeah David\u0027s gonna see quick enthusiasts actually I love quick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:49",
    "text": "so much that I\u0027m an author on two of those quick extensions and on an application over quick and I just shared a buff on something over quick this week I really quick thank you on a lot of these proposals especially a previous I tf\u0027s we brought them to things like dispatch and kind of a lot of the feedback we got was this sounds interesting this is cool but not yet and what I\u0027m hearing here sounds like an opening of the floodgates to some extent which I\u0027m loving maybe that\u0027s not the right term mark looks uneasy but as in maybe the not-yet might become a Oh how about now so I guess my question might be more from early as a policy from you know as our responsible ad how about now so yes we can sweet awesome just wanted to have that double check us you know I\u0027ve kind of heard that in private but it\u0027s great that that\u0027s the case let\u0027s do it so then I don\u0027t know if I ever said not yet but what we\u0027ve been trying previously is really to focus on getting version one out the door concentrating the energy of like the people in the quick working group in the people in this area on doing this work task and we are basically there so we should also do some work around it and we should use the protocols we develop so yes I want to say the same thing Spencer mention about the problem you didn\u0027t discuss the probability and management drafted that are already there but I think there should be also review the probably in operate in ops area because they have to do there the other thing is about the applications if we\u0027re going to do them I mean the some of them required changes in what\u0027s currently in v1 of earthquake and the question is are there any guidelines would there be any guidelines what you can change what not how it will be handled when it\u0027s going to be going to other work you also or your accounting that the same people will go and be the quick police or whatever well so quick police is an interesting concept and I want to talk about that after the meeting but I I suspect a number of the same people will still be involved in these efforts generally speaking you know if you\u0027re changing quick version one it\u0027s either an extension and a new version and and the extension should be not specific to an application and so it\u0027s going to be a case-by-case thing deciding what the right fit is I think that hurty I was gonna say quick enthusiasts but david has proven to me that I am merely a tepid supporter of guerdon he says it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:49",
    "text": "a big tent but he\u0027s really got the tallest chair in that tent at least today I I wanted to talk about two things one of which I I think is the stupid idea of ferry visiting me on Thursday afternoon and one of which might be more sensible there was a joke a while back that we needed a quick area because so much different work was being inspired by it earlier today we heard about some work and TLS to do some retconning of their record layer to make it look more like what happened in the split that ended up being between the TLS handshake and the quick record layer we\u0027ve heard all of these applications we\u0027ve heard these things that wants to look at how you manage different applications on quick and so I\u0027m gonna suggest that we actually consider running an experiment for a couple of ITF s and having a quick dispatch working session as an additional session to the to the regular sessions early in the week so the people who are part of this flood can figure out where their particular Eddy should go I think some of the work would stay here and transport some of the stuff in particular around multipath or congestion controllers might really belong here a great deal more of it might end up in operations or applications and as a short meeting that didn\u0027t try and concentrate the expertise a meeting that concentrated the expertise that that is inherent in that core of quick people the quick police that you were just talking about in one room early in the week might help clarify a whole bunch of stuff later and does a you know to session experiment it might be worth trying as I said that that\u0027s the bad idea ferry for Thursday afternoon idea the I think much more practical realistic right now idea is we are at the moment of Ackley\u0027s 216 right we saw this was HTTP it was built for one thing and suddenly people wanted to do all kinds of other different things with it and it went wide very wide across the the landscape of the internet becoming by becoming so wide the new waste of the internet was one of those strange things we think this is gonna happen again we think it\u0027s gonna happen here and this is one of the few times I think we can predict it and since we can predict it this time I am actually going to suggest that whatever efforts whether they\u0027re the stupid idea ferries efforts or something else we can do to try and make sure people understand what they\u0027re doing to the protocol as well as with it is really important right now and that may mean that during that six-month period while we\u0027re waiting for everything to Sun down we we write a much abbreviated version of the Hitchhiker\u0027s Guide to quick this is something that you you did for sip and others have done for other things so they understood how the parts fit together and what they were doing and it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:49",
    "text": "is a lot of work to write Hitchhiker\u0027s Guide like that but if we do see what we expect to see I think the work would pay off so you are talking about writing this document for application designers I think the whole point of a Hitchhiker\u0027s Guide is that it\u0027s written for any of the audience\u0027s who plan to take up that technology and it\u0027s not just the applications but anybody who might be saying I want to do this but I want datagrams with it I want to do this but I need multi path for it it\u0027s how all the pieces fit together so that if they have an understanding from TCP and Howell NP TCP works they see the differences early and and connected to the ways they fit together I I think it has to be a lot simpler than the Hitchhiker\u0027s God to sit in order to be done in that six month period but it might be a valuable use of the time so the applicability statement and as well as a miniature police statement were to documents that were actually meant to be directed at like a different audience than the people that implement create great it\u0027s not what you it\u0027s not quite what you\u0027re looking for but it\u0027s definitely not what I\u0027m talking about I will send you a pointer to the Hitchhiker\u0027s Guide that I\u0027m thinking of as an example but tech you can also write a blog post Spenser Dawkins just following up on that really quickly imagine the TCP roadmap or the SIP Hitchhiker\u0027s Guide or the course guide to sip if work on that has started before there were a hundred and fifty RFC\u0027s which is kind of the case in both for both of those protocols so I think that\u0027s I\u0027d like to really support his suggestion that people think about that Cullen Jennings I am also a quick enthusiast though I\u0027m in the pale shadow of David but I hope to a supplier I\u0027m motivated I\u0027m thrilled to see quickest open for business with things like Datagram moving forward because that enables the things I want to do so I am taking this opportunity to make a shameless plug for some work we\u0027re doing over in art around how to encapsulate audio and video real-time media into quick or web transports or various forms of that we\u0027re sorry\u0027 figuring that out and if you guys wanna join us we presented in dispatch on this rip draft earlier this week and we\u0027re working towards boff in vancouver that we plan to run so if you\u0027re interested in that type of area pick me and I will show you where we are thanks Adam is working on that mailing list as we speak Jong clinic so I have an abstract question and then a concrete instantiation of that question so the abstract question is you know as we do applications will probably develop you know requirements that it\u0027s not clear to us what they actually need whether they need requirements or implementation guidance "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:50",
    "text": "or even API guidance and do that the particular the thing that I\u0027m looking at is a number of applications of things like web transport needs low latency congestion control and I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s something where quick protocol would need to change if quick implementations need to change or just the API is such that you know you get callbacks when it\u0027s safe to send with low latency needs to change and I think that needs guidance from the quick group and what\u0027s the best way to get that cut ins so my my personal comment is actually if you look actually for low latency condition control that\u0027s protocol independent right the tools you need for it yes which is a which I\u0027ve heard conflicting reports about whether quick gives you things like the per packet arrival time stamps that are I\u0027m count wants for instance I think the answer I can give you right now is is that you know the people you want to be talking to you are going to be generally located in some place like the quick working group now is probably not a great time to talk to them about it in terms of the workload and their focus next year probably whether the quick working group is the right forum for that actual discussion TBD ok yeah not in Thompson I think what we\u0027re recognizing here is that the quick working group has a limited capacity to do additional work in this phase between now when we\u0027re sort of close to finished and when we really finish on this thing and so there\u0027s gonna be some need to manage the priority of the various items in this process I tend to think that Ted\u0027s idea might work given the timing of it or because in Vancouver and the next meeting after that which I\u0027d forget where it is Madrid we should be we should be getting a few more of these things and Gauri\u0027s question is really interesting one because there\u0027s there\u0027s a unit of work that says I might want to tweak some things in quick but I also have an application or something along those lines and and so how a group like that discussed specifically that and a quick dispatch really does sound like it\u0027s got all the wrong connotations but I\u0027m sure we can come up with a name for for a group like that and right it\u0027ll be effective you know effectively that\u0027s what we\u0027ve offered folks in the interim in Zurich so yeah I wanted a caution there and that and that is that this area has very specific expertise in the development of transport protocols and congestion control and the application thereof and we\u0027re talking about multipath and all of those related things some of these people coming along will come into that group and go I want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:51",
    "text": "to I want to do this new application on top of quick and the immediate response then needs to be go talk to the dispatch chairs in the art area because this is clearly an art area thing now some of that stuff we can do easily because it\u0027s pretty obvious obviously the things that that Cullen is trying to do gonna happen in art there\u0027s I don\u0027t see any other way that that\u0027s going to happen but there\u0027s gonna need to be a little bit of judgment exercised to you otherwise someone\u0027s gonna get overloaded and I don\u0027t want to have that happen absolutely hi Brian Trammell I came up here to say something different and then I just ended up coming up to endorse Ted\u0027s idea I think that I I think we probably don\u0027t want to end up with a quick dispatch or slow and lingering or whatever we call it permanently but there is well I mean he said the quick dispatch was bad so what\u0027s the opposite of a quick dispatch is it\u0027s worse actually um the the if you hear the reason that I wouldn\u0027t just say hey we have dispatch we have that process we have that thing it just works let\u0027s do that is something that I haven\u0027t really heard surfaced is that the interface that most other transport protocols provide to the application is here\u0027s a byte stream and a hope and a prayer take your things slap it on the ice cream everything is good or not the interface that quick provides to the application is significantly more complicated and to find um so this is why at the beginning of things like people are gonna say oh I want an application and I think I need to act quick because I don\u0027t know what the interface does that thing is we discussed in the quickie working group whether or not we wanted to take on the work to do an API draft right like so there was a little bit of discussion about whether intake the applicability draft and put this api dropped around it and i think we kind of nobody had any energy energy around that because I don\u0027t think we understood what that interface looked like I still think we don\u0027t quite understand what that interface looks like and I would like to say that one of the other goals of having a non dispatch dispatch working group is to watch what comes through that working group and use that to figure out what that interface looks like cuz I think we\u0027re gonna learn something through that process and we can write that down in an RFC I guess I just volunteered to help with that or we can you know it goes into the or it just goes into sort of the lore and we figure out what it is and it\u0027s not that complicated we don\u0027t need to write it down anywhere and then we just have a process but I would I would say that one of the things we should do with that process is figure out what that interface is because it is gonna change how the people have to work with each other just to respond to that quickly I agree that\u0027s one of the things in the back of my head is is that this week we\u0027ve seen a couple of examples of people trying to use h-2b to an extent hb2 in ways that are broken or harmful and that\u0027s because they didn\u0027t have good guidance like that you know you\u0027re not calling anyone out are you I would never do that I would say that in some cases the the the answer is don\u0027t do that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:52",
    "text": "that\u0027s going to be painful but I think that if like in quick since we don\u0027t know what that is yet release we\u0027re HT many knows what it looks like for quickly don\u0027t know what painful is yet so like something that looks painful now it might actually be something that we need work on the interface so yeah this is Patrick I like quick to I\u0027m actually I\u0027m really really excited about a number of things that\u0027s gonna do that I think I really don\u0027t change particularly webviews cases and this working group has been really unique in a couple different ways one is the extended focus and volume of work that\u0027s been done in this group is really really remarkable if you follow it closely it is I mean if firehose does not really begin describe what\u0027s going on and I find it hard to simply summarize without writing the PRS I can\u0027t read the PRS as fast as other people are writing the PRS slow freaky but the fact that it\u0027s composed across really three areas has been I think a very successful experiment enlarged and necessary for where it is and yet I don\u0027t feel the work on all three of those aspects has proceeded at the same pace within the working group it has been by necessity I think and appropriately so a little transport heavy going through and the application bits and security bits have been developed a little bit later and with less broad input we\u0027ve managed to put the right voices in there I think to get a high quality product but it\u0027s gonna be a hard thing to sustain like that and so going forward I think the right answer is more coordination than centralization as you\u0027re talking about in farming that work out further and so some citations we can use on this I think the web transport one is like is a good thing to think about in that model and it does have transported in its name but it\u0027s much more like WebSockets than it is like quick itself right it has to polyfill it has with other web like mechanisms it has to be concerned about the web security although on a whole bunch of different aspects and you know so yes it\u0027s a good example some that uses quick and it uses quick in a fairly close way to to native you can model that in your head in a bunch of different ways of exactly how that maps together but the expertise to bring a new thing into existence probably comes from somewhere else and so I think farming this out and really sort of opening the floodgates it\u0027s a great time so that\u0027s great just sorry just to respond to that very briefly you bring to mind very much that one of the things that Lars and I have observed is that we we see the implementers and the people working on the specs getting close to the point of exhaustion this has been a long slog it\u0027s a lot of work and well I know that people are excited about and some of the same people are excited about new applications or extensions and there\u0027s going to be effort put in there we can\u0027t assume that this group of people and group of implementors is going to be available for infinite amounts of work we saw this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:52",
    "text": "with HB 2 as well Jenai and God I\u0027d want people not to get emotionally attached to protocols they tend to not reciprocate your feelings no they don\u0027t but I am here to say that I took a little little while but I don\u0027t like the idea of having a quick dispatch sort of a thing it seems to make sense and the other on the other point about congestion control with ICC RJ chair hat on I\u0027d recommend that people who have ideas on doing different condition controllers even if the problem is motivated and driven by having quick as a transport the problem really if it\u0027s congestion control belongs in a congestion control forum and the ICC RG is a place you may want to bring it to work not so much for you Marcus for the 80s and and second everybody everybody in the room there was mentioned earlier of some dispatch like functionality for transport that might be really good idea I can think of at least three discussion I\u0027ve been involved in in this week that have that have included okay so where would we work on this thing in the transport area or the or the IETF in general I\u0027ll also observe the TSV WG as the catch-all working the transport area is bursting at the scenes based on what we did this week we\u0027d ask for six hours and then Coover which ain\u0027t going to happen okay thank you very much for the feedback that was really good I hope we could also provide you some useful information from our side we would definitely consider a feed book you\u0027ve feedback you\u0027ve provided also the idea about quick dispatch maybe not for the next meeting because we have like we have the feeling we have a plan for the things that we know that are coming up but but maybe we are so wrong right and but it\u0027s very good ideas and I don\u0027t have anything else for my site so we could have another open mic or we could have a real open mic if you have any other questions to the transport ATS and Magnus could be mem again if you want him to or we could just all go home for today okay I guess at the end of the session thank you very much "
  }
]