[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "uh hello all right i think uh i think it would be good to get started uh welcome to the second session on tuesday this is sedates my name's uh mark mcfadden i'm one of the co-chairs braun is the handsome one in the video and um and what my goal here is is to get the preliminaries out of the way so that we can have a good discussion so good morning good afternoon and good evening to all of you um let's see here if i can do this uh here's the ah here's the note well um the the chairs are advised to stress the note well this time and it's it's good for you to remind yourself of what's in here one of the things that i want to take just a moment to do is to uh remind you of the fact that the i the work in the ietf is human collaboration and as a result that collaboration works best when people are respectful to each other understand the fact that they have different backgrounds and so one of the things to know is that we have guidelines for conduct we have an anti-harassment policy and we also have a group of people who are both trained up and willing to help address any harassment issues so i put this slide in the slide deck just as a reminder to all of us i don't think there's a problem in sedate in fact i know there's not a problem in sedate but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "if you experience this either in sedate or in any other working group you have resources to use uh and as a code of conduct for the rest of us i think this is particularly important um uh the agenda here i'll i'll do a little bit of agenda bashing but not much because i really want to focus entirely on the document that we have and i'm going to basically turn it over to carsten to do that uh i have already talked about the note well as i said we have a the working group has a single document that's the one we're going to talk about let me just talk a few minutes about a liaison here's some potentially useful information there is a github repository where the pull requests are being collected uh for our our document and uh of course the charter is in the usual place can be found on data tracker in the usual way um our charter talks about a liaison and the chairs have had a conversation back in august with the iab to request a liaison to tc-39 the iab agreed in the beginning of october to go ahead and do a liaison that process is a formal uh iab process uh that basically got kicked off on october 5th uh the ieb asked for candidates and on october 22nd the iab had a list of candidates volunteers and has started interviewing those volunteers i do have information that some of those volunteers have been contacted by the ieb and the iab is hoping to make progress on that process um quickly after ietf112 so unless there are questions here i think that what i'll promise to do is i'll promise to keep the mailing list informed about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "the progress uh for this liaison because as you know we're trying to make progress on this document fairly quickly wrap up the working group fairly quickly and so one of the things we said to the iab is we need progress on the liaison in short order as well so that's my update on the liaison and my promise to the working group basically is that as i hear things from the ieb i'll continue to let the mailing list know about the progress we're making on the liaison so let me just pause for a second and see if there any questions okay well i'm pleased to say that the uh meat of the agenda is to be turned over to the discussion of our one document this was as you know adopted as a working group item the last time we got together uh there's a new version available uh dasha1 uh carson sent out uh carsten has actually done a lot of work and i'm not going to steal his fire here steal his thunder i'm gonna just let him talk in a second you can see the mailing list for the outline of issues and in the last five days there has been a really healthy and i think really positive discussion on the mailing list and lots of good proposals and so without any further ado let me turn it over to carson to he has some slides and um i just would like carsten to manage the discussion let me stop sharing my screen okay so you now all should see my slides and if somebody enables it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "also me those look good yeah i look good too but you can't see it you have to know you need to turn your video on separately if you want to do that yes i did a video request oh no i didn't uh you've done a screen request yeah we think it can be so confusing thank you sorry about that okay so um let's jump right into where we are so on october 20th we had a new version of the draft there are some some eight issues open on github which maybe don't cover the whole ground here so i propose the structure of discussion with five points one two five uh but given what has happened on the mailing list i inserted a point zero which we probably have to do before we go to uh one two five um and the point zero is what are we doing here anyway um so um the the charter tells us that we are extending rfc 33 39 time stamps and where we could do this to provide additional information and that's actually what the charter talks about um or we could also do this to to actually change the semantics so the the timestamp on its own means something different than the timestamp with the extensions that that we have added so just to remind people what 3339 does for us it gives us a utc timestamp and it gives us the ability to add an annotation which is a time zone offset and numeric offset that allows you to understand which time zone this particular time was meant to be in but not in the sense of a human readable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "time zone but just in the sense of time zone offset and yeah it's a matter of syntax that when you do that the time that you actually look at no longer is utc but is in that offset but that's just just that's not a semantic thing it's just the way the way this is represented so i try to summarize what happened on the the mailing list in particular i'm referencing this particular mail which you unfortunately cannot click on but it's one of the most recent mails that were sent on the mailing list so on the annotation side where we keep 33 39 unchanged but just add more information uh we certainly have the the proposal to add a human readable time zone so i can say that sometime actually is in the your berlin time zone and not just that it's a plus 0100 or plus 0 depending on the time of the year and of course there are also other annotations display hints and so on that can go there and but the point is this is still a 3339 timestamp just with some additional helpful information so any 3339 implementation can be modified to just ignore everything that is in this new extension syntax for instance by ignoring everything that starts with a open square bracket and and we have perfect interability um but we also have been talking about other things including modifications and in particular there is this thing that that was called b in this list where we have essentially the same information you have a 33 39 time stamp plus a human readable time zone but we actually mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "that the human readable time zone overrides the time zone offset if the semantics of that human readable time zone changes from the time the timestamp is generated to the time the time storm the time stamp is consumed and there are some details how you can do this but i think the the point here really is this is a kind of time stamp that is a little bit wobbling around based on on politic politicians decisions uh but after a while it actually converges to to an actual timestamp it's just a little bit more difficult to interpret it because you have to have access to a current time zone information database so that that's something different from from the annotation thing that's why i called it modification thing and then of course there are other modifications one can think about for instance time scales i think that would be a really useful thing to have but still it's a modification so again if we say this looks like an rfc 3339 timestamp but it really is in tai and not in utc uh that that's changing the semantics and finally there have been new semantics which are not covered by by the concept of a 33 39 timestamp at all so not not a fixed point in time or at least the time where we can converge to a fixed point after a while so for instance a floating time which is a time stamp that only becomes one when you add local context so it's not um interpretable without that context of course the data structure that this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "timestamp is integrated in that might provide the context so you can still have full interoperability on these time steps but the the timestamp by itself um is is quite different from uh what the 3339 timestamp would be even if it synthetically looks very similar uh the question really is um should we be doing modifications and uh completely new semantics so that the points b and c on the previous slides in this working group or not i'm not talking about what the charter says about that i can read the charter but should we do that uh so is that something that that is better done in the context with the other extensions that are covered by a and of course once we do this one interesting question is should this still look like a 3339 extension or maybe should it prevent false intervality by by looking sufficiently different that a 3339 implementation is not going to misunderstand it for 33.39 um timestamp so the argument for my argument i would use for for doing one and two is that we could make sure that these modified or new semantics could actually mesh very well with what we already chartered to do which is a and yeah just uh to to to remind people you all have the charters on your laptops but just in case we need this for the discussion that sure will start now i have put the relevant parts of the charter on three slides here run"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "point that i would make with all of this my life so the queue is open uh thanks uh for that introduction karsten and brian go ahead yep um so the only point i would make is that if the time zone name can override the offset then we're already in in the space where the the time plus offset the the timestamp or exact point in time is not fixed in place and as soon as you're doing that you may as well do all the floating stuff as well because at that point you need to you need to read the context to resolve exactly the time stamp it could shift depending on context and once you once you say it could shift then we should do all the good shifts but i'd be happy to also to find something that doesn't allow the timezone name to override the time point if that's what we want to do but yeah that one one or the other i think not half and half okay neil um i just wanted to say yeah the the thing is that some of these things are just not time stamps they're just date times um but that's fine there's a lot of applications on the web that need date times with the time zone or date times that's wall clock time that does have doesn't have any time zone associated at all uh and defining a standard way of serializing those is good for interoperability and that's what i thought the temporal group looking for when they first came to the itf with this proposal um so i would say it's fine for it you know to to not be the same as 3339 we just don't say it's an extension that we say it's a separate thing it's just adding more uh standard serializations for common things on the internet just like 3339 did"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "thanks for watching lad cloudflare uh so i would argue for b1 over b and the reason being that if you don't know if you don't see the offset you don't know how to understand the time zone an implementation will realize it doesn't have an offset but if we have the the time zone override the offset in cases where those differ the implementation that understands the time zone will represent we'll think it's a different time than the one that's actually specified and that would be unfortunate especially in cases where like there's user entry that can happen um i do want to say though that does but also time zones time zones since 1970 more or less are not going to change retroactively so if you have a past time let's say in europe berlin just as an example the the offset for that time is known and it's not going to shift although future times this whole question about how do you know what time it will be in the future where you don't um but that's not not really a concern that's that's more calendaring things yeah i think the the observation about b b or b1 is that the time zone info database content is going to change over time so the interpretation of that date time timestamp whatever is going to change but as you say it's very unlikely to change retroactively now so the interpretation is going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "converge into something um at least uh well a small time after the timestamp actually happened so that's still different from a floating time with which is entirely unfixed uh i just want to say the the semantics are entirely different if i am living in berlin and i write down that it is 1pm berlin time then it is 1 pm berlin time and whether or not the off you know 20 years later people are confused about what the offset was the time i wrote down is the same so saying that you know you can't have the two if you actually want to have an unambiguous utc thing set your clock to utc and keep your timestamp in utc you shouldn't have a time zone if you want your timestamp to be a utc one uncertainty about offsets looking back is an intended result of putting in a time zone um i think brawn next in the queue or out of the queue maybe i'll go to ujjwal hello am i audible yes okay perfect uh i just wanted to first quickly uh plus one the the point that was just raised like by watson i i think you know the the core distinction can't hear you maybe i will let you resolve any audio problems you have i couldn't i can hear him you can hear him [Music] that's weird maybe yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:05",
    "text": "um maybe mark you could try refreshing or something like that oh or he cannot hear me he can't hear you mark you might need to refresh your audio let me ping him okay uh can i continue yeah okay uh i was saying that one of the sort of promises that we make uh in in the uh in the rc or sort of tentative rc uh is that uh the implementations that don't understand any or all extensions would still resolve the time uh you know exactly the same way it would just uh you know have have difficulty with other operations and i think that promise is somewhat broken if you if you allow b but yeah b1 sort of doesn't have that so so it ties back into the point carsten made about yeah do we want them to even be interoperable with 339 maybe it's uh you know it's it's not good if they if you want something else maybe it should look different so that there's there's no way that there's a mismatch or something like that yeah i still might want to share code so so some similarity is probably useful michael oh um yeah i just i just wondrous emphasis on on times just being in the past is is is misplaced i mean people are going to publish future times which are prone to having the um that the time zone rules change"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "more than people think i believe and when you track time zone in certain areas the the world time zone specifications change quite a bit and at the last minute so um i don't know you can guarantee that any offset you've put in there is going to be valid when when you actually come to the actual point in time it may be more true that they don't change in retrospect but that's i don't think we're dealing with that all the time let's see watson again i think it's important to understand what people mean when they specify future times if i say i'm going to meet you at 12 p.m or grand central i mean when the hand of the talk in grand central station both of them are pointing straight up and whether or not that is a certain offset from utc isn't really the problem and so a few you know now what the issue is what happens if you're specifying this for a region that that that suddenly changes the way it keeps its clock and that's a very thorny problem because required wait a minute though before we go too far down down that road yo i i i get your point if you happen to if it was real meetings real people in the same time zone the problems occur when you're trying to set up a uh a meeting that cro that's in different time zones but what time zone do you want your meeting to be specified in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "you you each want your time to be your time zone what you agree on what the contract you make is to meet at the same instant in time which can be ultimately expressed as utc there's a correct there's a thing you said which is absolutely correct what matters to people more than anything else what is the invariant to people is their local time not utc so when you say you want a meeting at at midday or 2 p.m you mean midday or 2pm local time your time but if you're meeting with somebody in a different time zone they are meeting at say 8 a.m in the morning now right for you to meet so utc we are all pretty familiar with that problem so i think yes that that problem exists the the question really is what is this working group trying to do about i it i understand that but expressing say these times as utc or a fixed offset doesn't resolve those problems because if the rules change then the utc has to change yes i think everybody in this game is aware i i think i think there's i don't think saying that you're going to have local i think that prom is inherently insoluble you don't know whether next year you know let's say it's a meeting between say someone in arizona and or in someone in california you don't know whether next year one of them changes time zones and or it changes the data which the thing happens so something has to shift yep and it's the offset yeah when you schedule an event which is why i say the offset is the wrong thing for future times i completely agree with that now there's a use for having the offset"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "and the timezone id in that you can detect that they no longer agree and then you can actually do something about it and what you have to do about it is you can't just automatically fix it you have to reschedule those things yeah i think we really have determined that this use case exists let me just put out the other use case so so why maybe you understand why this is not quite as simple the other use case is that i have a certificate i want to be able to say when that certificate runs out and there it's usually not useful to factor in decisions of politicians but you want to have an absolute time when that goes away so you know when you have to install the new one instead of it and i think people are pretty pretty adamant that the times they put into certificates actually mean something very specific so both use cases exist rfc 3339 is kind of leaning towards the the let's have an actual point in time so that that's the problem itself today and what we are trying to to find out here is uh what are the the additions we can make and where do we make them and what we probably don't need to discuss is whether the problem exists i think we are all the way out there apologies i claim to be back um and i don't know who's next in the queue here is it michael i think most of what i wanted to say is uh is is redundant with what you just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "mentioned but yeah i just wanted to point out that we already have agreement that both uh use cases are legitimate for different applications it's just that we already have a way to to represent a instant in time if we know exactly uh you know when the certificate expires we can already represent that in a format right but we but we have no way to represent let's meet 9am in in melbourne time like that's not something that you can do in the standard space right now and so the question is not as much as uh is is this even useful but you know like do we want to do this and if yes where should we do it yeah it may be useful to point out that there are other standards that already provide that so somebody cited the icalendar standard on the mailing list so that that provides a way to to have a future time in in the sense that that b that's called b here yeah so i think we've we've gone around in circles enough on this to say that we should i guess decide whether we want to work on it or not that's really the question ahead of us is should should we do that this question one here should we do a time that is not an exact point in time format in this working group and i don't know if we need to do a poll for that to decide um our charter doesn't specifically allow us to do it though we could we could do it by not by basically doing the options that i proposed which are and not making any changes to rfc 339 bit but having things that could add an additional offset to it basically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "that gets calculated by the time zone rules changing or by whatever by floating which says resolve it in your current context whatever that happens to be so what do you what do you think mark should we do a poll on this or should we just ask people to speak on it i'm aware we're already halfway through our time slot yeah we're halfway through um um i'm puzzled maybe a poll let's see here a poll would be although i think the important point is that if we want to do one two we need to initiate a recharge process quickly and we need to be very certain what the scope what extent of that recharge ring is going to be do we actually include c for instance or is a c out of scope and we only do b um i think that's something that we should be deciding pretty soon all of this doesn't have to stop us from doing a and actually even maybe finishing and publishing an rfc that does a but i think people are so interested in this other use case that we need to develop a position on it even though it's not in our chart so i think scoping would be extremely important if we rechartered um especially in in it'd be very important to make sure that we are explicit about what is out of scope um that's just one person's opinion and that's without my chair add-on i think the scoping conversation while you say would need to happen very quickly and i agree with that i think what will be very important is how how the scope is limited right uh so i don't know braun do you have any thoughts about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "i mean we would basically have to say that we we're creating it the same extension for both a a point in time and a floating date time um and that the floating date time is not replacing three three three nine it's but it can be used with the same same contextual extensions that can be used to resolve it the problem is that this is this is taking even longer and temporal is is already we promised somebody would try and get something so that they could actually bake this stuff into web browsers so yeah i think what you should speak i was actually just asking uh carsten how how much this would delay us uh i i as you pointed out we're we've been working on temple and we would like to be shipping out soon and i i think it would be really sad if we uh if we have to ship something that's not standardized i would not prefer that at all uh so uh we we should try at least as much as we can to to to take the fastest route one thing that i was thinking is that if if recharging is is going to take a substantially long time one thing we could do is that since a large number of uh you know these these different derived formats so to say are uh you know useful mostly in the calendaring space we could do that sort of reification uh in uh in in calyx and then change the uh draft that we have here to to not only uh you know like link two to 359 but also to that and say okay this can extend all of these formats not just the the timestamp format what do people think of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "that proposal so maybe this is the time for for our esteemed ad francesca to say a few words sorry for putting you on the spot no worries um i do you have more precise question because i mean accepted saying that rechartering would in my opinion not be quick and um yeah would take some time especially if you go to the next slide i think where you had the charter was by the one after um yeah no i don't know what slide it was that had the the see the current charter on uh here you go um so um yeah given this at the current text and and the effort that it took to get to this charter um yeah i would be uh careful about like if there are time constraints rich ordering might not be the best idea but i'm just listening in to what everybody's opinions are or casting did you want me to no i think your estimation for for how how long a recharging would uh take is is very important in in this discussion so if this is something where if we came up with a very very specific scope we could make it happen quickly that would make it push the decision into one direction and if we find out this is going to be another rattle uh it would push us okay so so from a purely process point of view a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "rechartering should take around i believe something like six weeks if everything is already in place and this six weeks should start in the beginning of december at least so that's at least two and a half three months and that's and that's assuming that you know everybody can agree on on recharging text and and scope and uh motivation and evaluation um yeah that is also mentioned in the current charter so that's important to to do yeah [Music] so i would expect us to take about the same time to to fix up the documents of course we couldn't make one document a working group document before the recharger is at least in a definitive stage um again the the the other thing we could do or maybe we can do both at the same time is write up the case a here and make sure all the mechanics for actually defining extensions are already in there so we just have to add this this one little ingredients that we are actually doing things beyond 3339 at the time when we are chartered to do that i think that's an interesting way forward because one of the things that we could potentially do here is immediately start working on draft text for rechartering and then also schedule an interim so that being sensitive to temporal uh that we're making we're making clear and definitive progress right that we're not waiting we're not waiting until march to make more progress here although i think i want to say again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "that you know the the conversation that's gone on the list in the last five days has been really constructive uh i do think having an interim might be a way of pushing the work forward a little more quickly and that's something i'll bring up at the end of the session but i can actually see um three parallel tracks there right is continuing work on the existing document and putting putting a into it uh working in a track where we recharter and then have an individual submission to actually deal with for instance b1 um so that we were making we were making forward progress in parallel with rechartering that's that's one approach anyway i don't know if people have any comments about that that strategy works for me i guess the other question for for the temporal group is is this useful to you in this shape without the ability to do floating time or the ability to have the zone override the offset i i guess i could speak to that the uh the idea is that uh temporal does have those semantics uh but then because temporal is is in a special situation where it is a programming language api so there's more ways to represent that so so in this case we we of course do not allow the uh you know this information of saying okay the the time zone overrides the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "offset be represented in the interchange format but then you know the programmer can specify that on their end so so it's like still doable uh and therefore we we don't need but we don't have a pressing need for this all right in that case i think definitely pushing ahead with this document with timestamps only makes sense and also doing the recharging in parallel because we can publish this one without recharging shouldn't i have is that if if he published this one with with what we have right now say would we need to say you know push a new version obsoleting this once we once we have the the other document published so that it says okay it can extend both or can we do that in some way right now by saying okay this this applies to uh you know any derived formats and not just that specific format well i wouldn't write it in such a way that it has to be obsoleted i mean if we have a pretty good idea of where where we are going in the next step we can make the first step go into the right direction so it would just be another document that is added to it and that sounds really good yeah that sounds really ideal i think the the way i hear it it doesn't delay the document we have and it allows us to to start working on the supplementary document right away so i think i really like that idea so with my chair hat back on i'm hearing gradual consensus there i i want to make sure that the mic is open for other points of view"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "but uh there is this uh emerging consensus that we continue to work on the existing document and move it forward as quickly as we can in parallel with a uh a rechartering pro process that is uh has a very brisk uh scoping and then also the beginnings of a beginnings of the new document for uh like i said b and b one here b or b one so it's it's basically three parallel tracks that the working group would proceed on let me just leave the mic open here and see if there's anyone else that wants to talk to that planned path forward i will say editorially what's nice about that is that continues uh continues to get us towards a work product relatively quickly it really addresses the issues that have come up in the last five days i like that a lot and and i'm not afraid of the rechartering process i think that work can be done after ietf112 to move move reasonably quickly on that although everything that francesca says about the recharging process is true all the process that it has to go through so let me just pause here and see if anyone else wants to come to the queue wow i see no one okay so i'm going to assume that we have consensus on that path forward and that someone has very bravely made a note of what we've decided uh let me just make it karsten you're okay with that as a way forward yeah i think we have lots in place that can make us generate a document for a and we should simply do that and this allows us to get for instance the syntax"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "issues out of the way before we actually go into the semantics issues that may make b or c a little bit more complicated than it seems at the moment okay that's fine maybe it was wrong that i i wanted to sort of ask about from the chat is that uh if the if publishing this document that we have right now is not blocked on rechartering or uh you know the second document do we have a pressing reason to to do anything very quickly uh because i i think temple can ship after we we have this one published right so so my understanding of my understanding here is that we would move quickly on the existing document and we have a in the charter we have a timeline that suggests that we would get a document to the iesg by december i think that is aspirational at this point but that's a conversation that i want to save time to have here at the end of our session um i and the reason that i keep stressing uh parallel development here is because i am sensitive to uh temporals timelines and i'm also sensitive to the fact that when we were chartered as a working group we were chartered as a short-lived working group we don't want to i i and i don't want to put words in francesca's mouth but we don't want to be in a situation where we're sort of like barnacles on the side of a boat sort of adding to the charter over time right we want a clear and fairly succinct scope um that would be my answer to your to your point i had um i think i have john next in the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "mark i just wanted to make a quick procedural observation about something you said which is that especially given some of the people who are not participating in this session possibly because of conflicts with other working groups um uh we don't have consensus on anything that was confirmed on the mailing list so john um i completely agree with i was simply talking about concession in consensus in the session and we would obviously take back any discussions that we had in the working group meeting back to the mailing list for a consensus call i i completely agree with you i i just wanted to make certain that was clear and i assumed you knew it but i want to be sure this could go anywhere else yeah let me let me be very clear about my intention and the reason that i was hoping that braun was making a note there is that if we have a clear and succinct understanding of what the proposed pathway forward is that i would take the responsibility of getting that out to the mailing list in short order and asking for discussion and potentially consensus around that path forward again john knowing that um i'd like to drive that consensus as quickly as i can i i hope we're all in favor of that and thanks very much cool we have 13 minutes left to uh address all the rest of these slides so we probably should keep moving yeah i think the the the interim is really needed [Music] um so the the my hope would be that we actually can get the the document in a state where where it actually shows that this working group can get things done at the time the the final decision about reset the recharge ring needs to be done so this is an incentive another incentive to do this quickly so should i go to the other slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "please there okay so um i think we have five areas uh where we need to get work done and the first of all is uh of course the overall format um so we already had some discussion about ascii this is utf-8 i don't want to open that discussion right now i just want to remind people that we have to have an opinion on that maybe more important is that we need to explain what it means to receive an extension you don't understand so if all extensions are annotations that actually simple once they actually modify the the meaning that becomes a little bit more complicated an annotation may be something that you really want the recipient to understand before using the time so um yeah in many other protocols we have something like must understand flags or something like that so i think that that's an area where we need to understand what what we need to do or what we want to do here um yeah and finally the thing really needs a name could somebody please invent a name for this um [Music] any comments on the quick comments on this okay um yeah the time zone extension i think is is uh pretty clear what what that is in particular if it's uh just an annotation then i think we we understand that so so issue number three is is already answered by the discussion uh we already had and may we have to spend a little bit of time thinking about forward compatibility uh issues uh here so what what do you do with the time zone names that actually are deleted from the database"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "and so on but i think apart from that this this is uh this should be a slander now the the next question is naming the other extensions and the the current draft has a pretty complicated mechanism so you don't name any other extensions you first of all delegate namespaces to different organizations that then run registries for extensions within that organization sounds complicated there's also a [Music] consideration that uh names usually start out as somebody making an experiment and then this experiment grows and so on and if we have names that that try to reveal that this is experimental stuff uh the the x dash uh will continue to be in that name you will never get rid of it again so i think we have to think about how we run these registries a little bit more but my proposal would be to get rid of the whole delegation thing because that leads to a complicated mechanism of making another organization act in a way that this document describes and i think we can just skip all that and and create a single registry and make it reasonably easy to actually register something there or maybe reasonably hard if we want to but we have to decide on what's the threshold we want to uh put in there there is a concept of a single character namespace which is currently only provided for the unicode consortium and the text seems to imply that a single that any unicode"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "specification automatically can define or automatically already defines an extension mechanism for the timestamp and i'm not sure that actually works so the the u-dash ca that is given as an example here that doesn't really tell me enough to to write software to handle this so again my proposal would be to just get rid of this make sure that we have a good way to take in extensions from from the unicode consortium maybe require them to spec them out in a way that they actually are usable in the extended format we define and yeah let's the last slide here is about the multi-character namespaces i already said this this is more complex than it needs to be we could still reserve extension name prefixes so if we say u-dash goes to unicode that's probably a simple thing to add to this registry but apart from that just having a registry for information elements that that could be added by an organization that writes a specification which includes the itf itself of course sounds much simpler than what we have now comments okay which walk around i think that i was sort of clarifying on the on the chat was that the the whole procedure that that i have seems rather convoluted in hindsight it was something that i borrowed from bcp-47 so i don't feel strongly in favor of it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "or anything and i'd be happy to to to take in any uh simplifications okay that's helpful i go ahead and comment in the chat about vanity registrations and so on um so i think it's pretty clear that we have to have an expert review type mechanism here and the the job the poor designated expert would have to do is fend off uh vanity registrations um so i think that that's standard material and and we know how to do that and i don't think this is particularly more attractive than other targets for people i'm not going to talk about one particular person who has been very visible so i think we can handle that yeah and i would say that my experience with ayanna is they have a lot of experience in this area defending against vanity registrations uh john in the queue i'm going to respectfully disagree diana has had problems with that kind of thing since pastel handed over control to a committee uh and uh and they resist things where they're forced to make those kinds of decisions and designated experts do not work with this country where the serious controversy is distinct from uh trying to make things um consistent with the setting norms about how they're described and this meeting conflicting with the media type one is a real disaster in stanford heaviest discussion i i i would expect that if um if you said designated experts going to make these kinds of decisions among competing entities who are interested in registering names"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "that um uh that you would get resistance miami and you would probably if they're on their 12th get resistance to isg um this this this is a tough problem now i agree the designated expert ought to be able to project nonsense if i decide i want to register a thing called john which is time so wherever i haven't been standing at the moment i would hope a designated expert would be able to beat me when i had enough to discourage that registration attempt but uh but if you get two legitimate attempts to register the same string with different semantics the system is not going to deal with that well at least you will make sure that only one of these registrations goes goes through well then the traditional solution to that it's going to first come first serve and that raises its own set of problems no this is not a candidate for comfort serve um no it's not absolutely yeah um let me see here i want i do uh i know we have four minutes left and i do want to reserve a couple minutes to talk about future actions here um and i i understand uh john's point and respectfully disagree in some cases here um other uh let me just leave the queue open one last time for any further comments about carsten's last five slides here [Music] okay what i'd like to do then is chair is summarize what i've heard and just get a thumbs up from braun that this is the way forward so what we're going to do is take to the mailing list commitment to move continue to move forward on the existing working group document and try to do that at pace the second thing is we're going to have a conversation on the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "about rechartering and potentially asking someone to do an individual submission that meets additional requirements that have been identified both in this meeting and in the last five days so that we have a path that has three tracks one is the existing document and continuing to make progress on it and then two other uh things uh a working group recharter and also another document um i note uh and as as chair this is something that concerns me and braun as well that we have in our uh in the charter for our timeline we have a deadline of delivering uh our first document to the iesg in december and what i'd like to do now is sort of have a reality check about getting that done in december and see if anyone has any comments about whether that's doable or we should revise that date well we need two weeks for the regular school we need one week for thanksgiving we need one week for uh the holidays uh and so on and we probably need a couple of weeks to actually do the work so that that's a pretty aspiration i would say yeah i i'm tempted to say the same thing um how that was going to be exactly my my contribution if we make it february of next year one of the things a working group could decide to do is have an interim in january to sort of clean up and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "truly finish the document prior to working group last call and so i like the idea of february of next year let me see uh if there's anyone that wants to get in the queue to talk about that change okay like the others that's something that i will take back to the mailing list and propose as a change the last thing that's on my agenda then and i know i'm at time here is how do people feel about the chairs or organizing an interim meeting in january i can reply to that i would actually have one in december and one in january but that's maybe just my kind of working would you also in the queue go ahead that i i was wondering if you could do one sooner um well let me do this uh let me talk to braun offline about the timing of that and if uh if he and i can make it work uh we'll try to have one in december what i would propose is that if we do one in december then and that at that december meeting we would decide whether or not we need another one in january rather than scheduling both of them i think it should be on an as needed basis while i do agree that in order to make um you know quick progress on the existing working group document i think an interim in december would be useful i just want to make sure that we can get the uh the interested people there does that seem right to you bro yeah i think so we'll sort out a uh some kind of poll and work out when we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "can get the bulk of the bulk of the key people there that sounds like a good path forward okay um uh we are at end time here uh is there any other issue that someone wants to bring up well otherwise uh on behalf of the chairs thanks to everybody for another intriguing conversation i'll be posting uh as i promised to i'll be posting things to the list probably try to still get some of that done today and tomorrow and then uh braun and i will have a conversation about how to get started on uh scheduling an interim in december with that thanks to everyone and talk to you soon see you and gather possibly uh some people decided we're gonna go chat there so might catch you over there"
  }
]
