[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "alright alright folks time to get ready let\u0027s go hey folks this is the TLS working group meeting if you are not here for the TLS working group meeting then should probably be somewhere else we need a note-taker do we have any note takers it\u0027s pretty important that we get a note-taker got notes thank you and is somebody on jabber do we have somebody on jabber thank you all right so you all should be familiar with the note well if not you can take a few seconds here to familiar familiarize yourself with it okay and the blue sheet should be going around please remember when you get up to the mic to speak please state your name and as always let\u0027s try to keep it professional at the mic fair enough all right next is the agenda so today we got two sessions one is an hour long we have some things are pretty crammed in there hopefully could everybody hear me all right merica so this is the agenda and this is the agenda bosch time Steven hi Steven barrel I\u0027d like to push the agenda a little or to understand it I asked on the list and what was the basis having this visibility discussion again given that we had this discussion there was no consensus to do anything he had this draft it was discussed at length on the lists back in September October last year and here we are again I don\u0027t understand the logic by which were having this discussion today so we\u0027ve we\u0027ve gone back and looking at the messages in that have been around this draft and there are both people who are vehemently against this idea and people who think it\u0027s critical for the operation of what they do there\u0027s also people who have different technical contributions or opinions as to how things should be done so we felt it was still appropriate to have this discussion here in London so again I I mean I won\u0027t belabor the point but I just don\u0027t understand the logic that kids is constantly doing this is all that\u0027s needed is somebody to have strong opinions and then we we\u0027re gonna have this question every year it seems like I hope not so alright I still consider that that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:30",
    "text": "question is not answered which question how is it in our process to be having this discussion over and over again we have nope there\u0027s an obvious lack of consensus here why do we keep having this discussion because people have bought new work the tea try to address some of the reasons why we did not have consensus okay again that was discussed on the list at length in it with a very clear view no I don\u0027t think that there was it was very clear I\u0027m on the list I thought the lack of consensus was as clear as ever so Kathleen moriarity area directors so I do support the chairs in this to allow the conversation to continue because part of the consensus process is to figure out if there is a way that people can move forward without valid strong tech all opposition so there may be a way to get towards that and it would be good to see Ted lemon I think actually that what Kathleen just said is a great way to focus the discussion if there are proposals that don\u0027t have strong technical objections perhaps those would be the ones that we should consider discussing and not other proposals that do all right Thanks so the first thing we\u0027re to do is do the document status on a slightly happier note TLS 1.3 I guess is an approved point raised at this point we spun a new version to deal with one little thing I\u0027ll talk about like for 10 seconds about that on Wednesday ECC cipher suites for TLS 1.2 and earlier and the ECD HPS key stuff is in the RFC editors queue it\u0027s pinned on a kernel pickax draft that is on the IHT telex Chad I believe in the first week of April so those should go the DNS SEC draft is being clawed back to the working group based on some iced tea discusses and some other things that they pointed out the last second and we have two drafts and on the tele chat again for early in April and then we have a whole bunch of drafts that are kind of in play and we\u0027re going to be discussing most of those on Wednesday all right first up it\u0027s Thomas the record header extension where is he there he is great hi next please so yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:42",
    "text": "so what\u0027s the what\u0027s this thing is a way to provide a it\u0027s a way to extend the existing header and we\u0027re how do did we get here is we get there by looking at places where we could actually signal the presence of the seed and and and and and and we were looking very there\u0027s a scarcity of place where to actually include that semantics but there\u0027s this lonely Emma\u0027s being in the length which is unused which could be used for for that and then and then we observe the thing that if if you\u0027re not greedy and we don\u0027t allocate that bit for the seed only but we allow we sacrifice one more more more bites a for for for for for explicitly typing the the extension that we want to have we can actually create a generic excitation mechanism atop of that single bit next please so I\u0027ll does it work the MSB is a scientist new semantics is the extension bit if it is asserted then the space between the header and the payload is we can carve space there and and and in code it\u0027s a certain number of extensions that have the format that is at the bottom of the of the slide where basically a TLV with a bit the MSB of this thing that signifies the presence of a further extension so you can stack it the extension and effectively by asserting that M bit only on the on your extensions is itself next please so okay what are the design criteria here so we wanted to have a very very limited vocabulary and in fact we have four bit only so we have 16 good points and and this because we recognize the fact that this mechanism could be used - so there\u0027s this privacy implications here and and so keeping this vocabulary very very narrow allows say CC hell I was a working group to exert the the right amount of you no control over this this code space for now the only envisaged use of this extension is the connection ID but it was suggested by in an offline conversation we think that we could do something more than just the connection ID and have an and allocate another another code point to to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:43",
    "text": "actually resolve the asymmetry that we have in 1.3 1.2 as with regards to the connection ID the connection ID can only so 1.3 endpoints can update the seed mid-life whereas 1.2 endpoints are stuck with the with the actual seed that was negotiated at an shake if we had something like this we could use a new extension to say to encode the semantics right and have feature parity between 1.2 and 1.3 which seems rather cool the other the other doesn\u0027t design criteria is that this thing is only usable when both endpoints agree right and in order to do that we we hook this we bind this mechanism with a an extension there must be an extension that negotiates a specific header extension and this extension can be used i can encode in on the wire only when the negotiation has completed so wherever that point is in the end shake or after the N Shake okay so we can start using the e bead only after the end shake has successfully completed and this allows also backwards compatibility right with endpoints that don\u0027t understand the semantics next please okay so an example let\u0027s suppose that we have two end points that definite one point two end points that I\u0027ve not negotiated the the seed how would you use this this framework in the specific case so we have the e bits so next place we we assert that bit next the space between the header and the payload which opens up and you read the first two bytes and next please you identify the type she 0 0 in this case the city 0 0 because the first one that\u0027s been allocated and then next please you read the length is 2 bytes so you next please you consume the next device 41:42 a be perfect you get a seed you extract it next please you read back the top bit and you and there\u0027s no other extension so you\u0027re you\u0027re done with it and then explicit so you start consuming the payload given the length so the line that must be you you need subtract of course the length of the of the extension or the stack of extensions that you have there and then you can start reading and payload next please so let\u0027s beam okay so 0 0 a couple of months ago we proposed a generic mechanism but if you included TLS as well as DTLS where we had a few interesting exchange on the mailing list and in particular with a demand you are and and we decided to for the moment to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:43",
    "text": "switch off the LS because it seems to be it\u0027s going to be under par in in the wild because of intercepting metal boxes which will which needs to behave as service so if they don\u0027t understand the semantics they will just break the connection or if they the other the other option is that they they cancel out the the extension because they don\u0027t know what the semantics is and so the thing can\u0027t be negotiated end to end so for the 0 1 is only the only focus for 0 1 is DTLS next please so we think that from a design standpoint is this thing is sort of done so we don\u0027t want to spend more time on it if this is not perceived as something useful so I think the question for a working group is is it a valuable thing to have should we continue so express yourself Erica Scarlett my regular hat on so I mean the usual reason why you in band signal in a packet whether an option exists is because ambiguity about whether the state of that the state of the packet because it can\u0027t be interpreted independently but in this case the because as part of an association you doona factor of the state of the packet because you know what the association is and so the now I\u0027m sure you\u0027re gonna say you don\u0027t know if I see it you don\u0027t if you\u0027re not if you have um you know for troop overloading then you don\u0027t know which Association it is but for that use the CID so I guess I don\u0027t understand if you have if you have a way to indicate the CID then you can look up the packet and the because Association and then you know the state and you know and then you can put any other crap you want after that because you can independently you can\u0027t Lena go she ate yes so I don\u0027t understand why you need a generic extension mechanism this is key off of um this key off a bit of the header and I mean to be concrete about this like that\u0027s weird really quick and quick like if anything can be inferred from this we just arrange that you can look up the connection and once you go look for the connection everything is important they say the connection not in band indicated matter just to different design right so one is packets that describes themselves as they are so right self-describing thing and things that don\u0027t describe yourself and and rely on state that there\u0027s it\u0027s I think it\u0027s taste I mean I mean it it\u0027s waist-high mean DTLS an association or an inter oriented protocol right so things shouldn\u0027t be in the packet headers like they have to be the packet headers to interpret the packet okay well I mean you asked as a robot yeah but anyway Daniel no more ACLU we already had this whole spud presentation a little while ago and this smells a lot to me likes but just moved one layer down no splats bad loud signal from endpoint to path after endpoint anything this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:44",
    "text": "not spot well-wishes endpoint to endpoint after negotiations but it\u0027s completely different there is a similarity I agree it\u0027s different the similarity is that it\u0027s an arbitrarily extensible metadata field outside the encrypted on we recognize this and the design criteria about you know containing the space that\u0027s quick points the convoy space is exactly in this direction we can tell people not to use the space or we can not design the space and then people can\u0027t use it so it seems to me like if your goal is a privacy oriented thing where you say we have this one goal which is the connection ID you don\u0027t make the generically extensible thing you say we\u0027re gonna use this one bit to signal the presence of connection ID and I understand why that\u0027s nervous by the makes people nervous but I\u0027m just saying we had this fun discussion we didn\u0027t do spud I\u0027d rather that we don\u0027t do something spud like at the next layer up okay I don\u0027t agree with this analogy but anyway all right Martin you\u0027re at the end of the line the I think I think I agree mostly Whittaker here there are sort of a number of cases that you you concern about but the only thing this actually souls helps with is in the case where you have packets that arrive from on a different four tuples than the one that the connection was this that was done and you don\u0027t have any expectation about whether those packets came from a connection that had the connection ID or one would the didn\u0027t and I think those vanishingly rare those those cases that actually have this problem the clients and servers that care about it will be deploying the connection ID and you\u0027ll have a connection idea and those packets that arrive and those that don\u0027t well too bad those if you if you look at this and you assume that packets that arrive on a four top or five top or whatever you want to call the damn thing is that you don\u0027t have an association for they come in you don\u0027t know what your connection it belongs to you assume that it has a connection ID and you proceed based on though on that you were very quickly realize that it just continues to work I\u0027d like to avoid this trial and error thing right well yeah you\u0027re running detail is and packets turns out that packets come from everywhere on the internet and and there\u0027s a lot of trash and so you have to deal with that anyways just treat them like trash at that point I don\u0027t want to waste cycles to I want to avoid wasting too much cycles to treat those and fresh possible so in what environment do you not have to deal with trash I have tea for the moments I don\u0027t know Martin are you are you essentially saying so sort of Thomas "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:48",
    "text": "is proposing to have a mechanism to indicate in Allen\u0027s feed but they want it on the lens field to then indicate whether the series they are not and then of course that\u0027s order the you bent a little bit to further to generalize this but you are essentially saying that you want to use a more approachable istic scheme in some sense no so so my assertion is that any any client that is that does not implement connection IDs has some sort of expectation already that they have stable five tuples and in the event of a of and that rebinding or some of these events that we actually care about that my courses to want to do next and ID then you\u0027ll get a few packets those packets will drop on the floor and then the story will be over I think actually that topic is on scheduled for Wednesday like my understanding is we\u0027re talking a connection ad on Wednesday and this is just about yeah I I\u0027d like to I\u0027d like to separate the two discussions I say I I did the example of connection ID but this is is an example to instantiate a generic mechanism and-a I\u0027d like to collect our information and you know so if if you like this thing or you don\u0027t like if you think it\u0027s useful you don\u0027t think because otherwise I\u0027m not ok I think we replay and move on to the next topic area code can be quick super quick so as like I said connection that you should be when staying in context of connection ID I think I like the overall idea I don\u0027t think you need the generalized part because you have no other application at this point ok all right Richard is this second side sorry yes I\u0027d like to thank the chairs for letting me be the opening act for the big show this was this is a late submission we didn\u0027t get this draft put together until after the deadline so I only get two minutes to this is mainly a question of does anyone else find this an interesting problem so Owen feel and I came across a use case where we wanted to use TLS with a short low entropy password for authentication if we were looking at 1.2 we could have used SRP but that\u0027s turns out not to map really well the 1.3 so we\u0027re starting to look at could we use an extension to map any Paik really but we went with s pick two for the moment for the key exchange in authentication in see last one not three so next slide please if you look at the draft this is kind of what we\u0027ve sketched out you stick an extension in the client hello the server hello that does the key exchange much like the t-shirt extension and then you use the finished messages the finished max to do the key confirmation with the intermediate results the password and the derived keys plugged into the key schedule the appropriate parts so I think I don\u0027t have time for questions but please feel free to see me on the break or follow up on email I would love to find out if there\u0027s folks interested "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:48",
    "text": "in doing cakes for TLS 1.3 Thanks alright rester up so I mean the premise of this this draft of this discussion release to figure out if we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna end up in a point where we didn\u0027t make a home for adoption for this draft essentially um the the draft doesn\u0027t have to be perfect when it gets adopted by the working group because the working group gets changed control of the document and we can change it if we were to adopt it so I want people to remember that there\u0027s not an idea that it has to be perfectly polished before we move on so um I think that\u0027s pretty much what I wanted to say and we\u0027re gonna have a rest give a quick discussion about the technical points of the draft and then we\u0027re actually gonna go ahead have like a tenma discussion and then we\u0027ve reserved ten minutes to kind of go through the hums and I\u0027m sure that you will agenda bash and want to put editorial input on it so basically the ideas are gonna be a straight up down yes or no because like we feel that we\u0027ve kind of discussed this at length about the rationale for why you would do it and we wouldn\u0027t and what people agreed and didn\u0027t and we think we\u0027ve kind of passed that point we\u0027re at the point where we have a technical solution that we would like to adopt that is arguably some will make that argument that it\u0027s in scope of the working group because it\u0027s a tailless extension and to be honest if they want to proceed and do anything the first thing that they have to do is come to us and ask us so that\u0027s what they\u0027re actually doing and that\u0027s the plan for today dress okay Russ Housley I\u0027m presenting a draft the Ralph groms that I\u0027ve worked on together so the need for this has been discussed at length and I\u0027m not going to go through that again but I do think that you should take a look at these two drafts if you\u0027re new to this discussion so you know why we have it at the end of that discussion in soeul we heard that people were much happier with an opt-in to approach that is where the client had to do something to say I\u0027m okay with this invisibility happening as opposed to the previous approach which only the server had to interact with the key manager and the client was completely unaware so what we have done is put together approach that does that Steven I like to go through all the slides and new questions is that okay it\u0027s just a clarifying question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:48",
    "text": "okay so can you explain what the word many means to you and compared to the people who ask for this and the people who have had other objections I think many indicated that they were more comfortable as you\u0027re asking what many Matt right I think I remember like one or two people made that comments and many in my definition many many people had other comments okay I can\u0027t say I added them up I do recall that Nick Sullivan posted a message that kind of summarized in an approach that he was more comfortable with and we\u0027ve talked about that on the mail list in the past week no consensus call was made on that at that point that\u0027s certainly true so the goals of this extension is to impress the impact that going to ECD h will have in the data center environment the extension provides an opt-in mechanism that allows a TLS client a server to negotiate and agree whether this visibility will be granted the enterprise key manager is the one who decides who the other parties are that can see it any third party can detect whether this is going on by seeing the extension being in plain text in the client hello or the server hello and no private keys are disclosed here so no party can masquerade in a new session by EF as either of the parties next slide please so the prerequisite before the extension is used it volvemos tributing these values to the parties that will be granted access to the ciphertext they generate this diffie-hellman value and and pass it along to the server gets the public and the parties that are going to be granted access to the ciphertext get the private and then an AED is used to wrap up the things that they need to get to the ultimate key we didn\u0027t want to make up a way to name these things so we just used a fingerprint which is the sha-256 hash of the public key to name that that wraping key pair next slide so the idea is that the client includes an extension that has an empty structure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:49",
    "text": "that says I\u0027m willing to participate in this the server then uses the public key that it the private the public key that it has and the private key that the other parties have to wrap up the information that is needed for the decrypt to happen and passes that along so any of the parties who are going to be doing the decryption decrypt the information in the server hello in order to get to the things that allow it to compute the key schedule to decrypt the rest earlier this week we heard about a different approach that didn\u0027t include the resumption key if the group adopts this we we\u0027ll be glad to work through those details and do whichever the consensus of the group is next slide so this is the syntax actually of the stuff that goes into the extensions I don\u0027t want to walk through the details other than the fingerprint is there to know whether you have the key pair that you need to get to it and then the ephemeral public key that is generated by the server for this particular wrapping and then the wrapped up secrets that are recovered by the other parties based on the private key that was passed out by the key manager next slide so these are the details of how that encryption happens the I think the text at the bottom shows that we\u0027re just using the HK DF extract and expand mechanisms to get to those keys very much similar to the way the key schedule is used again subject all these details be glad to talk about if the group even wants to go forward with this this draft next slide questions and I think we want to start with the questions of understanding the draft and if there are none of those then we\u0027ll turn it over to the chairs for the discussion and the hops yes sticking from so if I understand this graph correctly you\u0027re just omitting the you know that the snoopers bits and there\u0027s no concept of whether there\u0027s one or zero or more than bar zero or zero is a concept but you don\u0027t have a concept of having more than one of those as far as I understand it more than one of those snoopers other parties that can get to the ciphertext right right so the key manager decides who those are but and the client doesn\u0027t know who they are sure but but you don\u0027t have a concept where the you know in a single session you can export the stuff to more than one snooper independently right more than one snooper is I didn\u0027t get that word "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:52",
    "text": "yeah that\u0027s correct right so and does that give me the draught vendor that you mentioned does that match their use cases at all because they mentioned multiple different you know many different reasons why they want to snoop on the data all over the place right yes so you think it\u0027s all the same team that\u0027s doing it no because the each session is the server\u0027s picking a different ephemeral so that\u0027s not the case been Benkei duck so if I understand correctly the use case here is in take in the data center and it\u0027s server the server so my question is does there need to be a negotiation in the protocol sense or is this something that could just be pre agreed that you are going to do something of this nature sure that\u0027s uh that\u0027s possibility the people who raised concerns and wanted the opt-in did not like draft green because drive green did exactly what you just said it was totally between the server and the key manager and the key manager deciding who they could be so based on those concerns we took this approach and there I\u0027m talking about negotiating between the TLS client and the TLS server with no necessary considerations the key manager well then I don\u0027t understand your question sorry so in TLS we have these extensions that are frequently used to negotiate the use of certain protocol features correct in the data center you frequently know that you\u0027re going to be talking to a specific pure that has a specific implementation and specific features so in principle you could bilaterally decide that between a given set of peers you\u0027re going to do some particular thing which may look a lot like TLS and may not be exactly TLS and I\u0027m sorry trying to understand if if you need this in protocol negotiation or if you could do some out-of-band agreement that some sort of visibility or whatever you want to call it mechanism will be in use so what what I heard you said saying is can\u0027t you create ATS like protocol for use in the data center that does that allows this visibility and that would be another design choice not the one we\u0027re presenting Darren Thank You Darren Pettis u.s. bank I just want to speak to Stevens question why do we keep talking about this I think the fact that people continue to come here and share the reasons of why this needs to be addressed for data center decryption speaks to the continued need I mean we all go up to the doctor we all go to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:53",
    "text": "retail stores we have this is going to affect all of us individually so I think a lot of good things have been done on the Internet I\u0027m not against in the end I\u0027m a privacy advocate myself but I also understand that we have to look at the data once it\u0027s sent to us is its Decimus it\u0027s not transitory anymore it\u0027s destined to us and we\u0027re responsible for securing it ensuring the performance so you know just like to say that we\u0027d like to ask for a vote forward for this when we rip the band-aid off and go ahead and and take this into this work into account voice Thank You Philip hon Baker comodo group I agree that this is a very important use case and in particular in the SCADA world when I was working on a chemical plant there\u0027s no way that we could have a communication going on that we couldn\u0027t strap an analyzer on to look at what that traffic was so visibility of the traffic was more important to us than confidentiality our big concern was always integrity that said I think that the are I think that this proposal that is made doesn\u0027t quite have the sufficient degree of control so I\u0027ve developed my own proposal and applied for a patent on it because there are two ways to adopt a standard why is to go through a process like this and another is to be told what to do by an IPR holder who can get everybody to do it the same way higher you have known or channeling anyone when they don\u0027t have my self the thing we talked about in Prague was about offline decryption decryption after the fact and what this draft processes is decryption on line seven which is it because what we need for network operations is the offline if we\u0027re going to decrypt online for example for anti-malware then we have to have it online and then we really have to change the protocol because there\u0027s no other way to get the keys into the middle box on time on the other hand I could make the case that anti-malware doesn\u0027t work like that because anti-malware shouldn\u0027t be in the TLS layer to be much higher up the stack because ante model works and resources so you might want to do if you want to analyze one of the resources you want to block at that point at the middle box not for the resource at all to the client or the server whichever way the connection goes and run all the malware "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:54",
    "text": "on this full resource that at that point is only on the middle box but not yet it on the client without breaking the connection so I don\u0027t think anti-malware can work with passive inspection of TLS it can only work with an actual proxy so I\u0027m not really sure why we in why we need disk opposed though that alters the protocol only get us passive in decryption where I don\u0027t think it\u0027s really needed so we\u0027ve looked at this and there\u0027s use cases where you need to deal with it real time immediately and there\u0027s also use cases where the traffic is stored and then looked at later so we tried to come up with one that accommodated both as opposed to coming up with two solutions for each of those environments well yeah since some of the use cases do need the proxy anyway mm-hmm and proxies work with TLS 1.3 just as well as they work with TR going to why don\u0027t we just tell people okay use a TLS proxy because that\u0027s the only thing that will cover all the users no I said proxies were used in some cases but not all I think they solve everything they\u0027re just have your hand the heavier handed yes hi excellent there\u0027s just one thing I want to clarify with this draft is the visibility endpoint does it have the ability to compute exporters based on so the way I wrote it yes and then I own the the list last week I said you know another way to do this would be to pick the six values I believe that were necessary to decrypt the Reserve Roundtree of zero RTT data the handshake data and the payloads without giving access to compute the PS KS for subsequent resumption or the exporters and if the group wants to do this we can have the trade-off discussion and pick whichever thank you mm-hmm pulled our net Scout a couple of comments I\u0027d like everyone I\u0027m a big plus one previously on the open Internet I think you also have to acknowledge a lot of the value of the internet comes from the content provided by data centers I know that the vast majority of large data center operators do use packet flow analysis network assurance application Shirin cybersecurity analysis doesn\u0027t matter if they\u0027re a for-profit nonprofit I know from my own dealings that minimum of 85 percent of the fortune 500 do this as fer for the draft you know the way I look at it is and I followed this quite closely that the authors of listen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:55",
    "text": "carefully the concerns that were raised by draft green I believe that they\u0027ve addressed those they found a technical solution that in my mind meets the requirements of both privacy on the open Internet and the requirements of data center operators Steve vinter I wanted to make a comment about the use cases of after the fag versus live out-of-band decryption certainly after the fact of Krypton is useful for troubleshooting but there are a number of live out-of-band use cases for decryption application performance monitoring with packets for example may look at many tiers of an application and the packets need to be decrypted immediately metadata is created in the packet or thrown away of course IDs customer experience monitoring fraud monitoring is another live application that\u0027s done in multiple locations and a last example i\u0027ll mention that since i\u0027m a troubleshooter for very large complicated applications with many tears it just takes too long to take one sniffer and try to chase around the problem waiting for multiple occurrences so what you have to do sometimes to be effective is to put traces at many layers of an application at once you run them through a packet broker through a decryption appliance and into a sniffer so that one of the problem hits all the data you need is there so the do we have questions about the draft is what we really want to get to you then we can we can go on here thanks Steven is there anybody else in line that wants to comment directly on this draft okay so Steven do you want to go first since I think you\u0027re in line first before the other gesture there Steven bro so suppose how would you characterize the difference in analysis between the work to develop TOS 1.3 and the work to UM this draft how would I characterize the difference between TLS 1/3 without this extension with the succession no no how would you characterize the entire level of analysis that\u0027s been done to produce TLS 1/3 versus disparate so TLS 1/3 has gone through a huge amount of analysis this one is a proposal that is not yet I would say we\u0027re at the same stage we were when TLS was at 0 1 or 0 2 and you know this is maybe getting towards commentary but would you know would you not agree that we\u0027ve you know we have learned over the last 20 years that doing the kind of analysis that we did 40 that\u0027s 1/3 is now if it\u0027s the right thing to do and absolutely back to an envelope kind of thing that which disappears to me to me now I think we would need to do that same level of analysis if the working group wants to go forward with this extension switch then confuses me with the if that level of analysis might say that this extension is just a terribly bad idea shouldn\u0027t you have done that first no I don\u0027t think you need that first in the same way we didn\u0027t do it with zero zero zero one zero two of TLS we did it as we worked on it I yeah I don\u0027t find that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:57",
    "text": "very convincing at all Ted you have a technical comment about the draft I caught up to make a comment about the point Steve Barrett made but it is more a point about the non yeah because I think there was some of they had a technical comment but gentlemen I\u0027m Malini I haven\u0027t clarified a clarifying question if that\u0027s okay sure because in the coverage right David scan Ozzie Apple in the conversation here I\u0027ve heard the words data center and Enterprise thrown around a lot can you clarify what client and what server is being used are those are general-purpose hosts or data center servers so very often it will be the load balancer at the edge of the data center that will be the client but we after talking to a bunch of different financial institutions found that there were some cases where the client was outside the data center and therefore it could even be a browser or a point-of-sale terminal Ursula like that thank you because if it\u0027s purely data center then as some people suggested you don\u0027t necessarily need to be using TLS and if it\u0027s another browser clients and hypothetically speaking if the people who implement those browsers have expressed discontent hypothetically and do not wish to implement this what\u0027s the point indeed Saturday it turns out that my point was actually a follow on both to Steve and to the point that was just made because I think Steve\u0027s point was that there were data center workloads where this was valuable inside a data center and I work for Google and our experiences sometimes our expectation about what\u0027s private to a data center is frustrated by some outside observers who have very nasty sticky notes to put on slides that Edward Snowden eventually lets us see and the the upshot of that is that I think when we examine this and do the analysis we have to presume that for the purposes of the analysis it will take place on the open Internet and I believe that that also means that we have to understand that it would get used in places where the number of distribution points which receive the nicking information will not be one there are a fair number of state actors who might require that particular operators share such information within their territories and that if they were provided this facility that King material might go to them for later analysis and I think that as part of the analysis of this header if it\u0027s accepted and you go through what the the process that you and and Stephen just agreed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:58",
    "text": "would occur if it did that that has to be taken account in the analysis and I think that\u0027s a fair point the only thing I can see personally that would stop that is making part of this protocol a sharing of the identities of all the listeners at the time of the negotiation of this of this header that makes it much much more complicated obviously yes and I think that there\u0027s a real question of whether you can balance the complexity of producing multi-party keying protocol with those characteristics against the privacy things when you don\u0027t know all of the considerations relevant to the deployment which will occur I believe there are some use cases which have been described in which those would be relatively well understood because of the the current auditing functions or other debug functions which are in place but that once present this would be used in places similars the way it we understand state actors and others use it now and I think that was one of the reasons for developing TLS 1.3 the way it was developed and that changing it is a quite a serious undertaking indeed okay we got about four minutes then we want to reserve the rest of the time for factual questions of adoption so either general con Gilmore thank you for acknowledging that the goal of this is not strictly within the data center I think that will probably change some people\u0027s analysis of it I have a technical question which is from what I can tell from the way that the draft is designed the client opts into the server sharing data with someone that\u0027s correct anyone well the key manager of the guy who GUP doles out those present on the public internet does the client know or have any way of verifying who know the key is being shared with not in the current grid and that\u0027s exactly what Andres pointing to yeah well that\u0027s exactly what Ted was pointed to is this a design decision that you made it was a design decision here which you can revisit so Kathleen moriarity Area Director to ask some clarifying questions because I\u0027m still hearing some pretty major concerns that could be enough to to block from a consensus standpoint right and what I\u0027d like to see is I do think the use case is important is there a way and I have some thoughts and I\u0027ll throw them out but is there a way this could be constrained to the data center usage now in terms of the identities I don\u0027t know that end user would be able to decipher them so I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s a practical solution and I think they might find holes with that if you\u0027re presented with a list of who\u0027s monitoring so I\u0027m not sure that that would be an adequate solution but what if this was server-to-server within the data center and in the client case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:58",
    "text": "they\u0027re terminating in a load balancer or some other function on the edge of the network and then able to do server to server within the network and then if there is a user within that enterprise that\u0027s connecting there\u0027s another load balancer is this a way that it could be constrained that we could get beyond the point we\u0027re at in this argument I don\u0027t think that that is a fruitful way forward because the my perspective from talking to people over the last almost year ok is that the their use cases in different enterprises that are diverse enough that that\u0027s not the case you can\u0027t always say there will be a load balancer ok you just directly use argument by the way Singh proxy solved this all right so I\u0027m closing the lines it same thing it\u0027s something that\u0027s terminating the session to the outside one question Brian Witten it sounded like though you are open to the approach where the client authenticates the key manager so the client could each at least have some confident and information about who the key manager is and who\u0027s facing subpoena risks and things like that it sounded like you\u0027re at least open to exploring that I\u0027d be willing to talk about that but you know you can\u0027t put forward a complete a solution that is whole without I don\u0027t yet know what those requirements would look like so that the the related question is it seems to me that a fair policy logic would be for clients on the open Internet that by default not accept this visibility and a related thing would be maybe for employers when connecting to their own domain in that exceptional case you know allow domain visibility that still leaves the question of compulsion could people be compelled but related to compulsion those are risks that we run today with or without a standard do I understand all the credit is correct okay thank you so much uh-huh all right guys I think um I guess at this point we\u0027re trying to figure out if we can actually put the questions on the slides and if we can actually agree to the questions because I know that people like to edit them I\u0027ve already been told that I missed a word in the second question so the proposals that we revolve what we\u0027ve basically come to the conclusion is that you can wrap up all of your good thinking your bad thinking for one or the other and this is essentially a straight up up down you know do you want to adopt this or not so you know the first question we would have would be you know do you support adoption and the second one would be not so I\u0027m not doing it right now yet but when we do that we\u0027re going to get Cathleen to jump up ya know any Elkins one of the things I\u0027d like to say when things I\u0027ve seen this in this whole area "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:58",
    "text": "is there may be a way in which the ietf process Halloweeny we\u0027re gonna have to I think we\u0027re gonna that\u0027s that\u0027s a larger question I think you\u0027ll have to take up with else elsewhere I think this is not this is not really about it\u0027s about trying to figure out what we\u0027re gonna top this draft I think sure okay Ben Schwartz I just want to say it sounds like one of the purposes here is to is to guard against data exfiltration attacks for attacks against confidentiality within the network I think that\u0027s one of the purposes given for this protocol and I just want to suggest that it\u0027s not actually technically fit for purpose that it actually increases the risk of data exfiltration attacks because an attacker who manages to break in is is now has a single point of failure within the system that would allow them to exfiltrate all plaintext within Network whereas with TLS 1.3 there would be much less likely to be able to harvest that much information for exfiltration okay Benkei duck and I think Ryan sort of touched on this tangentially um I just want to confirm that everyone has a similar understanding with respect to the compulsion question namely with the client offering this extension and server having to echo it back there is the potential for a entity that controls the network path between the client and the server to deny connections that do not contain this extension as a way of compelling the use of this extension and if anyone disagrees with that as for the technical reality of the proposal please flail around now alright next Hey Sharif Mansour I share my colleagues concerned with this draft that it might increase the attack surface area while other approaches such as active proxying might provide the same kind of use case bearing in mind that it is more expensive so my question is just how much more costly is it given the fact that it can provide similar use cases for the opt-in is by installing a cert on the browser or on the agent thank you all right we\u0027re closing the line Thanks sorry people I got a got a got a got a move on here guys we\u0027re running at a time thanks yeah go ahead Charles Thompson with vib solutions I just want to echo what paul said earlier you know a lot of banned decryption is is highly prevalent in the enterprise organizations raid four out of five in my experience leveraged some type of out a ban so the comments that were made earlier regarding this being data center only and perhaps the the use of this on the open Internet certainly endpoints are important to be able to perform decryption at think about sip endpoints right to be able to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:58",
    "text": "understand the call control when you\u0027re troubleshooting POS endpoints and retail organizations healthcare endpoints right those are very applicable use cases where data center only applications are not applicable and in-band is borderline not feasible I assumed you wanted to go last even no no do you want to go to your next even-steven bro can you explain to me how you think breaking tea at us like this is within the scope of the Working Group Charter is that a note you can\u0027t explain not to me it\u0027s a TLS extension Stephen I mean like they think this I don\u0027t believe this working group was chartered it to include this kind of folks having so I mean I think that I\u0027m speaking to the earlier you\u0027re supposed questions here right they seem to me to be asking the you know can we adopt something that basically is outside the proportion of charter shouldn\u0027t you start by retiring if you want to have a discussion discussion first I mean like I mean it\u0027s not like we haven\u0027t been discussing I know okay so I\u0027ll take it I\u0027ll take that your answer is that no you cannot explain to me how this is in scope of the working group you think it is that\u0027s why we\u0027re doing it Kathleen moriarity so for the end-user if there were a capability on the browser side or the endpoint to be able to capture the session logs so that user is knowingly providing that information to the party who\u0027s doing the bugging would that meet that need no okay I just wanted to ask the question to make sure that there weren\u0027t other mechanisms that might be more agreeable to the opposition\u0027s that we\u0027re hearing all right don\u0027t sit down Kathleen so we\u0027re gonna do two hums the first one is the support adoption and one is to not to oppose so the second one like do you support adoption of draft rhr DTLS steals from point three visibility as the tails working group item and the next one is do you do not do pose adoption okay please homina home if you support adoption of draft rhr DTLS one point three visibility oh one as a TLS working group item thanks please tell me oh if you oppose adoption of trust of draft r h RG t LSTs one point three visibility "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:58",
    "text": "disability oh one I mean so at this point there is no consensus to adopt this and so what we are basically telling the author\u0027s that if they would like to proceed forward they need to talk to the area directors area director for like ten more minutes Wednesday so I think there are very serious technical objections and they haven\u0027t been addressed yet however I do think the use case is very important so from this I I don\u0027t think that draft as is is a way forward but if you look at the consensus process if the objections were able to be met and there\u0027s some other way to do this then perhaps there is a way forward I don\u0027t see it with this draft at the moment just because there are strong serious technical objections and they haven\u0027t been met and that\u0027s enough to break the consensus but I do see the value in this personally you know I don\u0027t know how you would detect some of the threats with the like the u.s. cert report that was just announced for the utility industry and so unless there\u0027s other mechanisms in place to do that type of detection something is needed maybe it\u0027s not this but but I do think something is needed right now otherwise we might not have power in the u.s. um I think we\u0027re done Stephen unless you want to just a quick question for you yes am i interpreting you correctly to say that you know so this draft is no it\u0027s going to be adopted that\u0027s good and what about the next one what\u0027s your plan there at this point they\u0027re gonna have to go to the area director at this point right cuz we are we were in this interesting deadlock position so at this point they need to go to the ABS to figure out the way forward whether that\u0027s a new working group whether they come back and say no we have to like figure this out and do you come back but they\u0027re gonna get directed great so I like that answer thank you I squeeze one more in sure Mike Ackerman my question is a matter of logistics so we\u0027re gonna go to the area directors most of the issues that have been identified I think are technical are the area directors sufficient to address those issues or should we start to assimilate a task force I don\u0027t think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:59",
    "text": "we\u0027re going away this is too important to all of us that is something you should take up with the Area Director they\u0027re not there they\u0027re very technically astute trust me thank you thanks we\u0027ll see you all on Wednesday hopefully bring up the blue sheets "
  }
]