[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "There's a little card Mic's and should be, there's another one Yeah perfect Yeah, I was wondering if he had replied to some of those people privately but that's not what you're Thank you Thank you we're going to go ahead and get started For the folks online, the audio is okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "Okay, excellent. So this is the next Network Time Protocols Working Group Deacher will be taking minutes. There is a notes page linked from the agenda so people can feel free to add to that if you want to add more detail, that's always helpful helpful the note well is what you agreed to abide by when you signed up for this meeting, all of the policies and procedures of the IETF are documented here Please, if you have any questions, feel free to ask the chair or the AD. And And here's a little bit of additional guidance for the note well We do attempt to, we do strive to have a cooperative environment that everybody can feel safe and participate in to the fullest of their abilities. So please behave professionally I don't know that for the IETF 20-120 meeting tips tips, uh, everybody should have gotten the QR code everybody should be in Meetecho either with the light client or yourself We will be using the queue, even though we're a very small group We want to allow the remote participants as well And with that, this is our draft agenda for the day. We did expect a very small contingent. We have some verbal updates from some of the individuals who are not able to attend this meeting. So we have some updates that we can provide as we're going through the various agenda items for them Is there any agenda bashing?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "No. So we're going to, the first thing is a quick status of the documents that have moved beyond the working group and they're either with the chairs or with the IESG The enterprise profile has been through the IESG. We have some last call balloting comments on that document and we need to tidy it up a tiny bit and then it'll be ready to go to the RFC editor Um, you can, uh, all of that if you go and look at the Datatracker in the balloting from the IESG, but it's very close to being completed The registries document we also have, we need to do some resolution of IESG ballot comments so going back to the enterprise profile so that's with the authors and Eric and I for the registries document the we also have some additional comments. We have some possible texts that we're gonna work on this week And with that, the author is we'll be moving that forward once we get some agreement on what that text needs to be So that's another document that hopefully will be done in the next month or two We have NTS for PTP here. I meant to delete it. We have adopted it by the working group, and we do have Mark online who's going to give us an update on the status of that document And we have the NTP over PTP If you were following that discussion on the mailing list there was a fair amount of concern about the document. We had a joint from the 1588 community. We had a joint discussion with the 1588 leadership on that, and they proposed a way forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "and Maryslav has implemented that and so the latest draft in the repository reflects the agreements that we made with 1588 and so we are ready to send that to the IESG pending a shepherd write up so NTS for PTP should have been taken off this because it's not a document that's beyond the working group like these, the three are. Any question? on the three documents that have moved? beyond the working group? Okay Oh, yes, we should talk about interleave mode Eric Klein, at the long last, I've read some of the changes about in interleaf mode. I think some of the objections from the operations people may still be there when we bring it back to telechat about why is this safe and so on. But it's coming back to the IETF telechat I think August 22nd So we'll bring it back around It has been off first had been off for so long the IESG had changed a bunch. It needs a bunch, much much, much more ballots. So I will see with this round brings in terms of review And maybe people won't be quite so skeptical especially now that there I think there are three implementations of which relief mode, Neerslav said Right. Anyway, it's on the next telechat. Well, two, second Jellot for me Okay, so the next draft that we have is the NTPV file"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "requirements draft. We do not have an update from the author since the last time we discussed this document We have some additional changes that we would like to have made. We would also like to get some editorial support for the author if there's anybody who's interested in helping work on this document we would appreciate it. We had also talked at one point about whether we wanted to publish this or not and the chairs and Eric, the three of us have discussed this and we believe that we should go ahead and develop the document and then deal with the question of public it when we get to that stage because we do still need some answers to some questions in order to help draw the NTPV5 protocol document Is there any questions on the requirements document? All right, so the next one is the NTP V5 the NTPV-5 specific There has been an up update to that document. Marislaw was not able to attend this meeting. The later version of the draft specifies a replacement for the kiss of death deny and NTS NAC codes It improves NTPV5 negotiation in older NTP versions and it improves the specification of the correction field the correction extension field We have some remaining issues to be addressed and that's whether or not to support the reference IDs of stratum one servers that have codes and other not GPS codes and other non-nTPs time sources and more testing on detection and the prevention of synchronization loops if there's no real objections to the design Miroslav believes that most of this is editorial work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "that we need to do to make the document easier to read better introduction, explain things in more detail and those kinds of things There, so it's definitely not ready for a working group last call, but we really do need some additional reviews and comments on this document We hope to have a hackathon project on this document in the November timeframe for the next IETF meeting So with that, does anybody have any? questions or comments on the NTP V5 document? Hi Yes, please Thank you Lennigan. So with respect to the NTPV requirements document, I do think it should be publishable, but we don't have to publish it If we don't publish it somewhere in the published, text, the protocol document, we should clearly have some texts stating why we're doing V5 I think, somebody at the IESG during television will ask why couldn't it have been done by other means, so we need, we don't need a lot of text, but we just need some we just have to be sure that there is some concise explanation for why we're doing a whole revision instead of some kind of extent Okay, we need to be sure we get that to the authors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "in particular. Let me also be clear, I have not checked to see it that text already exists, so it might already exist Yeah, there's a lot of operations and especially the V5 both both of these two docs that text already exists so it might already exist yeah there's a lot of opportunity and especially the v5 both both of these two documents there's a lot of opportunity for somebody who wants to contribute text and get an acknowledgement in the document So I would, I would like to see some more help for the authors in getting that kind of material out there Okay, um, Next on the agenda was NTP over PTP which I've already discussed the status of I think we came up with a good way forward with the 50 which I've already discussed the status of. I think we came up with a good way forward with the 1588 group, and I'll talk a little bit more about 1588 in a few minutes and where this might happen some additional relevancy going forward Any questions on NTP over PTP? Okay so the next one is rough time and Watson is here to give us an update on the Rough Time draft Yeah so you have time for discussion later, but right now the update is we've updated it for version um there's been a number of conversations both on-list and off-list, and we've really been focused on cleaning out the remaining issues My goal is to make sure that next IATI meeting, we can put this on the other slide. I think that's Thank you Okay you said next meeting we could, oh, you said put this on the other, oh, I see now I, now I understand what you're was. Yeah, get it to a lap, get into the state where we can have a working group last call and hopefully finish up before the next IETF with that. Yeah, that would be great And just for, for clarity we're talking about the protocol one and not the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Yeah, we've the relevant parts of the ecosystem draft we've gone back to having one draft uh i think there just wasn't enough concrete implementation interest in the ecosystem All right, thank you very much, Watson All right, hold on one sec, all I So So I'm going to give a quick report out from we had an informal 1588 NTP to discussion and as part of that I'm also going to give a quick status of what 1588 is currently working on I think in the next year or two we're going to have a lot more opportunity or a lot more need for coordination between the two groups. We have a fair number of things that overlap at the moment so first of all there are a couple of 1580 so first of all, from a 1588 perspective, what are the things that are NTP working group might need to know about? There are some things that have, that are ongoing at 1588 right now that I think are relevant here. The first one is 1588 D which was published this year, was published at the end of last year technically is the GDOI key management scheme for the authentication TLV that was added to the 1588, 2019"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "version so that is the current security material for 1588 is section 16.14 in the main specification, annex in the main specification and then this document. And where this is going to be relevant is we're also going to be talking about adding NTS as a second key management scheme for some domains for use with 1588 The second thing that's available going to be talking about adding NTS as a second key management scheme for some domains for use with 1588. The second thing that's of interest is we have some ongoing discussions about the vulnerabilities of PTP and a number of these were raised as part of the discussion in the NTP working group about the the adoption of the NTS for PTP document So for those of you who are following the mailing list we put out a call for adoption for the NTS for PTP, and there were some concerns about us working on it because the feeling was that there was some underlying security vulnerability and these were brought forth by some folks that had done some implementation work both from the NTP and the PTP community So the 1588 security working group is going to back and looking at some of the underlying issues that were ready during the call for adoption in the NTP working group And when Martin comes up next, he'll talk a little bit about the NTS for PTP work, and then the actual format of what the security improvements in 1588 whether they will be clarifications of existing text or whether it will be a further amendments that hasn't been determined yet until that work gets to more maturity And then the third thing that I think is of interest to the NTP working group is that there has been in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "new PAR approved. It's 1588.1 it's called Client Server PTP, and this is meant to be something that it looks a little bit more like NTP It's a client server implementation of PTP possibly for use in data centers and things like that And that will be relevant to the document that Mary Miroslav is that we're putting forward on PTP NTP over PTP So those are the three things that are currently ongoing in 15 that might be of interest We did have a informal meeting last week specifically to bring the two communities together I sent an announcement on both lists indicating that it was not a formal meeting of either group and that it would be and that the results would be taken back to both groups So we don't quite have the notes done yet, but we do have some discussion and some next steps for both individual groups to be working on The documents that are relevant and of interest here are this, and these were linked in the original message where I saw out the meeting announcement for this meeting. We have the document in PTP, which is looking at the security flaws and the authentication TLV. And then we have the NTS document here These are the reference documents. I just put them here for completeness that are driving a lot of this conversation. The security requirements are a C-7- 7384, was developed by the TikTok Working Group almost 10 years ago now. That was used to drive the requirements for both NTS here and also for the authentication TLV and the security solution in PTP. So it was used in both places And then RFC 8915 is the NTS that was published for NTP And the hope is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "especially as climate server PTP comes along and these things look alike, that there will be, will be able to have overlap between the solutions, so we'll see how that goes And then obviously the underlying 1588 specifications are also relevant here so the next steps are to report back to both the 1588 and the IAT NTP work groups This is the report back for you all. We'll send some more detail We'll send an email having some of these kinds of the information in it. And then also we're going to report back to 1588, the plenary for 1588 is later this week and there there is a desire to have a follow-up informal discussion sometime in Sam September, I think it is, to see what progress has been made and what next steps are and if we need to we can establish a more formal liaison, but at this point, it's just it's an informal discussion between the two groups So there's a fair amount of moving parts, but I think the is also a fair amount of overlap and so we're trying to keep the communication lines flow effectively With that, are there any questions about what has what has transpired? A Is there anything in 1588? that should be a consideration for NTPV5? that may be we should reconsider? Possibly, but they, the part just approved, and so there is too early to say it's really too early to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "One of, you know, there's there's it's just really too early to say i i know that there's a couple of different possible ways forward so far, I know of three one coming out of Meadow, one coming out of Mind early to say. I know that there's a couple of different possible ways forward so far. I know of three, one coming out of Meadow, one coming out of Meadow, and one possibility is that NTP over PTP could be a is a possible solution as well, but it's really they've had one initial meeting and they're some design teamwork going on in the background, but there's no proposed drafts yet There's a separate, community, I think it's called a community group and I Tripoli that's being set up to look at use cases, but it's outside the scope of 1588. So it's, it's I don't know I haven't seen the announcement for it yet, I just heard that it got approved so Well, it seems like there, yeah, would have been nice if there could be a way to clever collaborate or come together on something perhaps. Yeah yeah, fair enough. Thank you Yeah, I think it was May of this year that the par was approved and we had a meeting in June, I believe I don't remember the exact date, but all right So the, the, uh thing on our agenda is NTS for PTSD Martin Yeah, hello, Kevin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "ma hello everyone. Yeah, at first I'm to say I'm pretty happy and relieved that's the attention process of NTS for PTP was successful So no, it's an official working group document even if there were some concerns because of the PTP security flaws and the potential conflict with NTS for PDP I'm pretty sure this is not a big deal and we can work on both NTS for PTP and the discussion on the PTP security floor simultaneously Also, I guess security floors can be fixed pretty easily, at least at the technical side. Regarding the NTS draft document, since the last uploaded version, there are no further changes yet Reiner, Berembach and I want to add a small paragraph at the document to give some information about the scope of NTS for PTP So we want to point out what can be seen with NTS for PTP and whatnot So one of the discussion was, for example, the delay attacks, and of course, PTP is one-way time transfer, which means we can protect PTP against delay attacks with cryptographic measures which means we need always some kind of redundancy or monitoring mechanisms to mitigate delay attacks. So this should be very clear at the beginning of the document. This is what we want to add So this minor update will be published in about two or three weeks because Reiner is on vacation as far as I know and I have a surgery into this minor update will be published in about two or three weeks because Reina is on vacation as far as I know and I have a surgery in two days"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "This is why we don't update the document in one or two days So we uploaded in two or three weeks maybe here's more question to you Kevin is it OK to upload the document in two or three weeks? or is it necessary to push it as soon as possible? because it's no finishing with adoption call? call? I think two to three weeks would be fine. I just don't want it to be two to three months So it would be so yeah, I think you'll be fine doing it then Okay, perfect I also um and i did turn i talk about this earlier. We have, finally, set up an NTP GitHub repo for the NTP working group and we're going to work with you to move that document over into our repo repo so that it can be referenced and owned by the Secretariat so but we'll hand that. We'll work with you on the administrative details when you go to submit the next version, okay? Ah, okay, perfect Yeah, Wilson, maybe about implementation um count Currently, I work two days or three days per week of my implementation It's about 6 to or 70% finished. So the key management system is almost functional, not not finished, but functional So I guess I can run the first test in August or at least at September And then we gain, hopefully much more information During the last few months, I made a lot of notes during the implement and I received many comments in the IETF mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "from David, from Miroslav. Thanks for this comments are very important for me I also gained a lot of information in the IETI Security Sub-Committee and Railant I want to merge all this information to create a major update for the draft document in the BIDIC beginning of the next year. So February at least or March So we have to add some more sections in the document for example the replay mechanism in NTS4 PDP is currently more a placeholder than a specification text. But we want to show the text. We knew the draft document is currently pretty large This is the reason because PTP is very complex but we see we can cut off some content or shorten some content to make it easier to read for first readers So this is the current plan. So the next update in two weeks is a small update in mine up update and then the next after this one should be a major update with much more content Okay this is a click to come in state. All right thank you, Martin, for getting up or staying up to report to us on this Are there any questions for Martin on the status of the NTS for PET? document? Okay so that brings us to any other business The first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "any other business item is hackathon projects in November Like I said, we're definitely interested in NTPV5 project so folks that are working on those protocol implementations that would be helpful Martin, you mentioned your NTS for PTP implementation. Do you think you'd be ready to? corral a project on that? in November as well? Hard to say, I hope I really hope All right, so we'll keep it in mind and and consider that And Watson, we've tried a few times on Rough Time I think there's a separate rough time implementation group, but perhaps if you could give us an implementation status or I don't know if it's worth doing a hackathon project for that or not. I think that timing just doesn't work If we haven't concluded a working group last call by then, then it would make sense to be a hackathon project if there's enough people showing up. But I'm hoping that we can get it to the point of where we've concluded the last call by next week okay so we'll keep an eye on that later go ahead christopher janz chris patten Sorry, I haven't spoken in a little while we're working on it implement, we're working on updating our Go implementation yeah and we uh, we're supporting draft eight right now and we'll support the the latest draft simultaneously. So there will be a test server at least and a little a little client Okay, not necessarily on the timeline of a hackathon, just something we plan to do be a test server at least and a little client. Not necessarily on the timeline of a hackathon, just something, you know, we plan to do. Oh, okay. Thank you. That's very helpful Okay, so that's the hackathon for the November meeting. The second item I had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "under any other business was any interim calls. We do seem to get a little bit more traction on interim calls I think August is in particular a bad time for all of the people that are on vacation So I was looking to schedule something in early to mid-September And we'll get back to you on possible dates for that is there any questions or comments, suggestions, things to avoid? date-wise? Okay Excellent. And looking at Crystal looking at your comment in the, in the Zillow Meetecho chat I'm assuming you can, you'll announce that on the mailing list, right? That announced the yes how to get to the server Thank you okay so with that is if there's no other business we have gotten to the end of our agenda we have a fair number of things that we're working on we just the time zones and everything have conspired to not work with this meeting very well. However, we strongly need people to start reviewing We need some more reviews on these documents. And so if you are new to this working group, please take a look. And even if you're not new, there's been a fair amount of development on some of these documents. It would be good to get another pass through them Anything else people want to bring up? at the mic? Okay, so with that, I will adjourn the NTP at IETF 120 meeting Thank you Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:23",
    "text": "to be there I said to know that I did it I have to take a problem with the data design and to be be be be turn that all that off"
  }
]
