[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "show yourself down folks I\u0027m alright we\u0027re gonna start so take a seat oh good that\u0027s what when Campbell sorry thanks so we\u0027re sharing the slot today with ster so we have an hour for a meeting let\u0027s get into the bits oh look at that it\u0027s terrible yeah you need space not space really okay because this is the start of the week I\u0027m going to spend a little bit of time on this one the note well outlines your obligations as you participate in this meeting that means at a high level we want professional conduct here be civil be kind to your fellow human being and also let us know if you have intellectual property rights or are aware of any that relate to the things that you\u0027re talking about I\u0027m assuming everyone is familiar with this but it\u0027s worth spending a month think about that this is the why we are here slide I\u0027m going to tweet more that\u0027s how we start work groups that\u0027s that\u0027s awesome this is not why we started that working group that make you mad for reminding us why so that probably one bash related to this one that Tommy\u0027s going to spend a couple of minutes talking about the the API we\u0027re going to do that after the wireless broadband folks a personal style for a little bit of status when Brian Shields has presentation there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:24",
    "text": "about the perspective of the wbba group and then we\u0027re going to talk about some of the remaining issues that we have on the open drafts that we have I think Eric you have some slides on 7710 as well yeah okay so I\u0027ll let you talk to that for 7710 Biss it was a there was a call on the mailing list it was adopted enough loaded as IETF it was we have some improved content negotiation texts thanks to mark it was moved to the captive portal working group github repository and I wanted to propose a question for the group and that was whether or not we should request that the IETF 106 network run an experiment where we hand out 7710 this URL that is takes you to a static web page basically an API that just has this JSON in it it just says captive false and the venue info URL takes you to the meeting page for the meeting page you can get to the agenda and you can get the floor guide and you can get to the how to get to the emergency hospital stuff and all that all that good things so if the working group thinks this is a good idea I can take care of sending the request to the naka and Alisa and so on so you see how this flies I think it\u0027s all a static content there\u0027s no redirections with ampersands mac equals SKU IP equals bar kind of stuff this just simple as can be I\u0027m assuming that information wouldn\u0027t be collecting any actual data about the people and so we should probably make that bigger yeah so as a part of the DNS of rutila\u0027s experiment I think we had to say what data would be collected and what would not be I was imagining we would just be interested in the diversity of user agents and the number of times the API had been fetched I expect for 106 maybe it won\u0027t be that many but maybe for 107 things will be different by then do any of the implementers any of the operating system and implementers in the room think that something could possibly query this by Singapore even even an experimental build Tommy Polly Apple yeah I think in an experimental build especially like if we have like hackathon purpose to like test that explicitly I think that would be good we can definitely do something on iOS or my bus to do that so if every creators until they - to that end we should capture the information how many times we see people connecting to the URL and how many times we see them trying to use the correct API formats and the media type requests as opposed to something that\u0027s like doing a legacy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:26",
    "text": "thing that we don\u0027t expect yeah I think the other should be a thread on the mailing list about what data we\u0027re gonna explicitly say if you collect and what explicitly not to collect and so on yeah definitely it would and one thing that we\u0027ll get out of this is someone\u0027s gonna have to write down on how a network operator might actually do something so in detail in a way that it\u0027s easy for them to consume which may not be the case for the RFC itself the moment so for example do we need an SSL start you know who\u0027s gonna issue that he didn\u0027t say where this was hosted but we can work that out yes yes we were willing to say it\u0027s much easier to do that let\u0027s not worry about yeah so though okay that was that I think that was that unless there\u0027s other comments that\u0027s all I had on the know is he is Brian ready right in there see you I see you ready to attempt this some fun if you can join the queue I think maybe I don\u0027t know how this works but we have a big red button that we can let you in can we dope can meet a co-participant spirits and this else did you talk that yeah so he need to get okay people the difficulties we\u0027re having here I think we\u0027ll skip to the next one and we\u0027ll come back to this one once I think a couple of minutes for Tommy\u0027s presentation and then we\u0027ll see how these work out all right hello "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:27",
    "text": "everyone I\u0027m Tommy Pauly and I\u0027m one of the co editors of the captive portal API document we have recently posted a revision of it not hugely changed what I did want to give an overview of what we have done and get feedback from the group on that all right so the relevant changes to talk about in oh three are we did a much more rigorous definition of the registry for the keys that we would have in the captive portal API and how we would allow people to extend that so that\u0027s now a Ayana registry that we\u0027re creating there so this allows us to have new JSON keys and values to extend this we definitely do expect this to be extended the set we have right now is very minimal for example it does not allow things to do kind of headless captive portal Association if you don\u0027t have a UI and that\u0027s something that people would want to do in the future this would allow that we also changed one of the names of the keys from a vendor info URL to a venue info URL this relates to what was being proposed as the experiment these URLs of how you get more information about your venue like the IETF meeting is really venue specific not like a vendor we also did make the user portal URL which is the UI that you would do to actually authenticate an optional key and set mandatory to be a little bit more future proof because we could have things in the future that do not require that and then we did fill out the security consideration section which was just a to do it namely summarizes the security requirements that we list earlier about how you need to use HTTPS to talk to the portal how you need to do certificate validation etc there was one open issue that\u0027s remaining on the github and it was originally about just we should have a registry so we did that part of it but there\u0027s still a comment about should we within this rarity registry have a specific guidance for how we have either sub dictionaries or labels on keys that are organisations specific such as if that WBA wanted a set of keys for things should there be an official prefix mechanism that they reserved that way or not I don\u0027t have a strong opinion on this but if people do please let us know I think that\u0027s it X - is not recommended we do not do X - immediately one one thing that we\u0027ve heard over and over and over and over kappa portal operators is that they want to be able to continue to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:32",
    "text": "track the same user through the captive portal login page and through subsequent activities and the Android default behavior is to take away to capture portal login page what be long is complete and one thing that I thought of that we could use the API for though not at 7-7 end would be if there were a way to include some sort of section ID in the venue URL so because one of our plans would be - we have a notification with Cubans you\u0027re connected to captive portal right now it says nothing but if if that had a click here for venue information and an have a section ID then maybe we could put the user back into their safe flow yes you can I pay for more stuff that they wanted to be charged for whatever the only question there is this can\u0027t be really the 7710 you were all definitely updated because the 7710 URL in the best version points to the api right and yes so there are two URLs that are specified already in the JSON for the API one is the like the portal URL which is the thing you go to initially but you could also essentially go back if you need to re-up your plan and then there\u0027s an extra one for like here\u0027s the information about your flight if you need that so imagine you I could link to both deeply all the time especially the early enough in the flow that that\u0027s actually he\u0027s not gonna change or do we need to like do another poll of the URL after we log in as you see right yeah basically generate that one-time URL then maybe that\u0027s we don\u0027t want the micro so long as you know I know maybe this is if it can be done with another key I guess the baby doesn\u0027t belong here looks like Brian want this Brian wants to comment on this a part of my and if there any changes we would want to make to the API to do that that\u0027d be good I mean the the JSON here can be dynamically generated so it could include a session ID in the URL we could also have new keys that get registered to specifically define a session ID that is to be used on future connections right the 7710 this URL could be per client in DHT messages but it can\u0027t be per client in an r/a correct "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:32",
    "text": "correct so I think it\u0027d be better to do that through the API so essentially the next steps here are we really do want to do inter up with portal vendors I think the proposal to do a Interop of like the the dummy case of a non captive network is really good and we should do that here at the ITF next time but if we have people who are implementing captive portals please reach out to us about doing an interruptus I think that\u0027s kind of the thing we need to do and then once we have validated that I think we should just kind of get these things out the door that\u0027s it so yes maybe after Brian\u0027s presentation we can talk about what the next steps are so Ryan disappeared briefly then you have the floor great thanks so much all right well it\u0027s a real pleasure - so thanks a lot Mike my name is Brian shields I work employing the wireless you\u0027re in Los Angeles California you make might be familiar with our Airport Wi-Fi but we\u0027re also big on cellular and other technologies and convention centers military bases and a lot more and I\u0027ve been working in blingo since 2007 and also portal since then as you probably you\u0027re well aware a lot has changed since that year when the iPhone came out and was a member of the wireless broadband this alliance where I\u0027m representing today and I\u0027ll be talking about the WPA and what we do in projects especially little project and how it would be a mutually beneficial for it-- yes all right especially hearing what you\u0027re all talking about right now this is music to my ears so if you can hang on in this slide I\u0027ll go over the WBA overall it\u0027s an alliance of over 100 members it\u0027s a community of network providers manufacturers and technology providers I was established in 2003 with the Charter of developing seamless and interoperable services across wireless technologies WBA was one of the forces behind the widespread adoption of the next slide this is a quick overview of the work groups and projects at the WEA the group serve their groups focus on wireless deployments and convergence ing IOT technologies is roaming workgroups for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:33",
    "text": "sharing customer access across our networks and finally there\u0027s testing interoperability group that\u0027s when the captain or the project is based and I know this many of that I have membership that are already members of the WBA so I\u0027d like them to participate in the program as well but we\u0027re also very happy to work on the more information membership so the Charter for the workgroup a little bit more about the the capital standards we\u0027ve been active for over a year since January 2017 when we first want been working on a white paper that that will document how current operating systems by client OS X versions operating systems and releasing that to probably anybody contribute and what we like document behavior as well as the current vyasa in activity onboarding process so that\u0027s going to be part of the well then also out of that on auditing that behavior we also want to recommend improvements for the clients and onboarding for an example of one of the issues is on the next slide so this is a diagram Oh diagram that shows the captive portal flow kind of overlay I operate the system and as you can see it\u0027s obviously very fragmented there\u0027s a lot of cases a target but a different process I\u0027ve mentioned earlier for the postdoc issue where the portal closes automatically on authentication on Android iOS and Mac OS it stays open for post next I\u0027m going to show you even with some of the issues that were raised in our work and that this is a short presentation and we\u0027re finalizing and right now in the final editing so three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:33",
    "text": "of the main pressing issues first one is a lot of different operating systems use different you are eyes there reference creates a management issue on the operator side to whitelist the URIs as well as any that are calling HDS they\u0027re all well aware that this great stirred up early for his smashers when the CA is checked and just overall depend the mental behavior creates a lot of like collections but find ourselves how we work around also the fragment in use cases as I\u0027ve mentioned before difference between Apple and Android and Windows interpretations first off there is a change and then just overall limited features available there\u0027s no way to trigger mode debugging tools and there\u0027s no support on site State management so we can\u0027t recognize it and any user the first time I sent a filling out a form for example and the second time saying hey welcome back we\u0027re gonna allow you to skip through the initial the next line so how can we collaborate so The WB\u0027s constituency is one of our great strengths are where manufacturers and providers technology providers well we work out together this is a short list we\u0027d like to work out possibly and rc4 near term usability standards scope also I would like those short term fixes or manufacturers and we\u0027re really interested in 77 admist and its potential for solving a lot of problems and I think it also set the stage for a lot of new innovation and a lot unlock a lot of new functionality would add to a lot and then also we want to make sure the enterprise is included hotspot 2.0 and you know to use cases of limited support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "is starting to come through with you has added support for this but the ability to engage with the end user and the put them on a path point network in the enterprise would simplify a lot of onboarding for any place than any other activity right we\u0027re in this is what we do every day we want to improve the experience for end users and streamline access to the network without a lot of friction so that pretty much covers everything so I told you about charter the captive portal workgroup highlights of our activity and the issues move back to work if anybody\u0027s interested in joining WPA or we\u0027re doing right does anyone have any questions for Brian have a better discussion about this and maybe we can speaking which actually we were we\u0027re writing code for 77 tenants as we speak I think was last week so many was during right curtains we sent to Colonel a touch screen for the RA auction as well but the you know I think a couple things really one of them was is that is the classification legacy behavior I would not maybe spend too much on that because it will be subject to change and I think it\u0027s it\u0027s of not really to characterize even even the behavior amongst Android devices radically different you know different OEMs have different behaviors and so on I know I would instead try to focus on how can we make this better going forward using some like proper API it\u0027s you know I think 7710 is part of it one thing I don\u0027t see here hotspot 2.0 is I think in a much better shape one thing I don\u0027t see here is the is the captive portal API and I think that that is something that it would be good if you to be honest you know from a network perspective we want to implement that but we don\u0027t really have existence proof of a network operator that can build it and so until we do we\u0027re sort of not sure what priority we need to assign to it so I think if someone is willing to sort of bring up some test write some code and bring up something some test environments we\u0027re happier to collaborate on that you know so I think the API would be really good to our come "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:34",
    "text": "together yeah thank you Denmark ins since this is captive portal for Wi-Fi are you recommending requiring our C 8110 to protect the Wi-Fi connection opportunistic encryption yeah authenticate a third authenticate list there\u0027s no authentication against encryption of the wireless medium between the station on the AP so that you don\u0027t basically connect in the open setup there\u0027s a nice Sun glint the captive portal and then what you\u0027re going to throw away all that nice cryptographic state and go back and halt the connection that can be added work passively observed so Dan this is probably something you can take up with Brian I can yeah it\u0027s a good question but I think we find that out some other way tell me about the apples so thank you for sharing this it\u0027s great to hear that you are interested in helping test this out and particularly what we\u0027re talking about 7710 yes plus the API you know as we were talking about for next ITF it would be good to do a experiment here on this network but it would also be graded at the same time if we could do some testing perhaps in the hackathon perhaps over that kind of on site with a captive portal network would it be possible to have your site the vendor like come and like bring a box that has this implementer so we could test this out at the hackathon brand-ne any of your other you or your collaborators collaborators have you had a chance to read any of the API and architecture and 77s documents and details do you have any feedback for the list in one of the fields actually in the HCP option I assume that that point to that is what 7777 ten bits clarifies is that the option URL is to the API and inside the API are further URLs to look at it\u0027s just the trying to line some of the requirements that we have established in our whitepaper see if we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:36",
    "text": "can get additions to the point there\u0027s a little talk about again sweet these are just reeling from the gentleman I think you have somebody else from máxima they also will Inc implements any seventeen well it\u0027s really just really from the mic thank you any other questions for Brian thank you Brian is there a chance we\u0027ll see you in Singapore there is a chance I\u0027m gonna go talk to my boss right after this great okay thanks Brian I think the next item on our agenda is the open issues that we have on the the architecture document I just want to go through those briefly we talked about most of these last time we met but I think it\u0027s a good opportunity for us to hopefully close some of them or at least it you don\u0027t need to worry about being logged in just go to the architecture job do we have suresh in the room he has observers wonderful so our editor here is occupied so let\u0027s just go through these briefly hopefully I can understand what the problems were I hope most of these issues myself and sellers I make it easier so one of the things that came up is that yeah I think we might need a controller superfast so some networks do during the process of during the state in which someone is captive still provide access to DNS resolvers even those that are outside the network that won\u0027t necessarily be true for something like dough or some of the other DNS variants sometimes these networks allow UDP on 53 but not TCP in 53 and all sorts of other interesting combinations "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:37",
    "text": "at the same sort of problem the question here is a what text we provide in the document that around this this particular class of problems and so the only the problem here is making sure that the clients have the ability to request the captive portal API document and that requires name resolution and so I think the suggestion was to disable any of the external manually configured resolvers no matter how you were intending to interact with those resolvers Martinez said it breaks every time I go to captive portal and I can\u0027t reach even anything well this is true of the current system but our system not in this one necessary and so I think that I think that we need to have the nice thing that would be an SF is that I don\u0027t mind if you intercept my packets and answer them because I can validate them myself all right let\u0027s do the conversation for tomorrow if we can well you can log in if I use your DNS server library anyway the point is that I have to reconfigure everything use your DNS server and there so I would like to have some some statement that DNS SEC I should be able if you put DNS SEC on your portal link I should be able to validate it and that means I need to access all the resolvers above your knee all the 38 resolvers of underneath not just your your recursive resolver to get your the name of your captive api interesting ok so again it\u0027s okay if you proxy my stuff as long as you return the data correctly sign right michael richards in the fight but it\u0027s also possible that Deanna\u0027s over TLS and DNS for AGVs may just be blocked by the portal policy at some point so I think there\u0027s no option but to use the network\u0027s DNS servers during portal validation I don\u0027t not sure that we can say that the issue was made I mean I think you know if if if let\u0027s say if the captive portal operator forgets to block you know 4 4 3 2 the VMS server then it\u0027s sort of all falls over for me from an implementation perspective to be honest the simplest thing here is to say look just use clear text CMS to this for this to the network\u0027s DNS service you know personally that seems the simplest option I think if we if we require if we require the name to be globally reachable and resolvable by global dns service that may make it more complicated to deploy so you know I was I was on a plane yesterday and of course that the name isn\u0027t global reachable so it brings the standard "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:37",
    "text": "captive portal flow but it doesn\u0027t rate the captive portal up to the captive portal app knows not to do this one thing that I would oppose is do not disable never say disable encrypted DNS only say disable encrypted this for this query right right and that\u0027s that\u0027s going to be important it\u0027s it\u0027s only for these queries that you might to be to the API and potentially also to the captive portal pages as well this is going to make it really interesting for those people are implementing the browser today yeah a lot of things breaking that in in these modes so having some recommendation here acknowledging the the complexities of implementation might be wise Tommy so yeah very much agree with Lorenzo\u0027s comments and yeah I think we could probably go as far as saying that when you are doing the resolution of the API and the connection to the API you kind of must use the local infrastructure for that and one way to think of this if we\u0027re talking about like provisioning domains and consistent sets of my DNS plus my routing and other things when I am doing something like DNS over TLS and have an external server that I\u0027ve configured that\u0027s effectively a custom PVD that\u0027s not purely local and so we kind of just want to say that if you are doing any connection to the captive API or at this stuff he needs to be within a purely local provisioning and doing just use the local information don\u0027t try to access anything else and that can and should be separate from what other applications are doing and that you should allow applications to essentially choose into the local config just for this purpose collagen pillage eggs just kind of like some of the solutions have been posed to this video file a the policy of now I can run a VPN hidden over the DNS and obviously we can\u0027t have a solution does that or no one would really use it for lots of the cases so yeah I think this is recognizing that if you use the local network infrastructure for this then there\u0027s much less chance of sorts of things happen at that C which is yeah consistent let\u0027s go the next one oh I\u0027ll make a note in that in issued yeah so I think this is this is again just text in the document but there is the possibility that a captive portal might lie about certain things in order to get people to go to web pages you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:39",
    "text": "have enough Network but you advertise a captive portal and say that someone\u0027s captive when they\u0027re not I don\u0027t care about this particular scenario and I\u0027ve heard from people in the past that this scenario it doesn\u0027t bother them particularly I\u0027d like to confirm that though and then ask what we would write down in this case what would an operating system implementer you maintain your current connectivity chicks tummy can you suggest some text for us or at least an approach we might take you great well I don\u0027t one thing I was gonna propose this approach is potentially not really committing to what the implementation needs to do innocence just essentially say this can\u0027t happen they can lie and implementations can decide what to do about it they should have some approach either by you know doing the probes that are validating the we could have an any number of heuristics any number of ways to kind of like that Hufford detect the people who lie or flag them or allow the user to say oh I don\u0027t this network seems to be acting strangely I don\u0027t think that\u0027s for this document to be designed the solution to and this is consistent with decisions we\u0027ve made in the past people do whitelist the captive portal checks for various operating systems and we explicitly decided not to address that so that I think this falls under that as well so do we need a text change here I think it might be worth acknowledging the problem even if we don\u0027t do anything about you know maybe we shouldn\u0027t talk about nuisance Mike which isn\u0027t so if I have a captive portal and my whitelist everyone\u0027s MAC address that I like so that they don\u0027t get any any restrictions or my company for instance and I still put this thing in there is that still a nuisance I just want to say to the people this network finally brought to you by is the API you\u0027re gonna say captive : true or captive : false yeah so when you get to the MDI I do that but in the process of doing that I have something that I can write do you think that it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:41",
    "text": "enough okay I just want to be clear that I understood the problem here why people calling it a nuisance all just just wanted to clarify this section starts with if a signaling protocol is implemented and that something like section is if it\u0027s implemented then somebody can spoof the signal yep that\u0027s right and so there\u0027s a risk I don\u0027t think we have any plans at the moment to specify what a signaling protocol is so maybe this is less less of a problem so I Michael again so I think that maybe my confusion is that is there advice that client operating systems should because they\u0027ve seen the signaling protocol are going to do things which they didn\u0027t need to do and someone says Kappa true but they\u0027re not really captive is that the that\u0027s essentially what it takes to sign yeah and and so and the advice is to to go ahead anyway the network\u0027s working so far go ahead anyway don\u0027t you and don\u0027t don\u0027t bother the user so maybe we - then I think we\u0027ll probably be able to resolve this you told me search for risk of nuisance yes Rahul I\u0027m trying to think of what what someone saying captive force and steel advertising URL would mean by that and how how I could want to react to that if if we\u0027re going to put up a notification to to respond to who\u0027s advertise your else then sometimes and if we don\u0027t do that then I can easily see operators putting that flag through saying yes yes yes its captive just so this isn\u0027t this is a risk web acknowledged I think in the party it is always possible that the network could be captive in some way that you\u0027re not able to detect as well so one of the problems here is that if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:44",
    "text": "we try when we talked about this a number of times in the past if we try to capture every single way in which the network policy might apply that says that the the network is not completely open so certain networks block access to certain sites for instance and this is something that happens on the country or enterprise or whatever level basis do we require that the captive portal signal that it\u0027s it\u0027s a rathole that gets really kind of nasty yeah yeah I think in my personal opinion we might want to remove the word nuisance and replace it with a more apt description of some kind none comes to mind just yet sorry say again Michael yeah you just described it more correctly in some way where does it happen in 15 minutes it\u0027s got those last issues done I will then talk about next steps so this is yours Tommy I think this is just editorial so let\u0027s move on to the next one so again this might be editorial there is the possibility that someone might decide to move the location at the API or one of the other resources and yeah Lorenzo says good luck to them well the API or any of the URLs that are referenced from the API and I think maybe we just not worry about this one does anyone want to say something about this particular problem I know this came up in discussions last year sometime we just do a street mean I\u0027ve seen it may happen and essentially it will just have a goal did you guys know reconnect so by saying by saying nothing here we make the problem something that the captive portal vendor and the network need to address they need to make sure that if they want to put a new one in then retain the old one as a working end point I think that\u0027s probably a better way to do with this particular problem so technically within the URLs given out by the API JSON those can change because there is an expiry time that\u0027s listed JSON so the clients can wretch so you there is a limited amount of times that is defined by the portal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:44",
    "text": "that it needs to maintain old end points and do that so that you can have a fairly recent transition there I think that so we can mention that to say that that\u0027s a way to change the your eyes of actual resources changing the portal API itself is I think for our basic than we can just say if you really need to change where things are pointing to don\u0027t change the API that will be a little bit more forensic walibi is there any recommendation that the portal you all right be the same program right it is that explicit it said it says should be the user portal no you means that even the API you might want to say that I think we probably should because of the RA case yeah yeah but I mean somebody who changes this you know well they\u0027re gonna have a lot of interoperability problems so you know might want to say that it\u0027s my want to say it\u0027s not recommended you just say it should be stable for the lifetime of clients association with them probably I don\u0027t know what this you should even be of ships I think some terms of next steps here we are looking hopefully with suresh help to address these issues in another within the next little while and then we have three documents we have no issues on those three documents with we seem to have agreement on the way forward on all of the issues that we do have expect to work in group last call when these documents are updated does anyone have any objections to going to that step once we once we\u0027re done here I would like to get some more eyes on the 7710 document because that one\u0027s a little fresher so maybe a show of hands from folks in the room who are willing to read and review that and your you will get in the minutes I see a few oh thanks yeah we have a few okay so - check would you can you capture names we I saw Ted back there as well I can\u0027t see and anything else I thank you all for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:50",
    "text": "your contributions and we\u0027ll let the ster group take the time [Music] I\u0027ll take the action item of writing up the request to to the NOC and maybe I\u0027ll put it on github and put it on the list ask for comments and we\u0027ll just kind of revise that doc including all the things operationally we expect [Music] you "
  }
]