[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:26",
    "text": "okay hello everybody and welcome to the Mimi interim um so we're at the scheduled start time but I think I'm going to allow just a couple more minutes to allow uh more participants to show up and then we'll get started e e"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:28",
    "text": "e all right I think we can get going um so welcome everybody to the first of two scheduled Mimi interims in the near future uh this one's going to be focused on the architecture and protocol drafts that were adopted uh back in Brisbane or shortly after Brisbane I should say um first off can everybody hear me okay I'm never sure on this particular machine yep I hear you all thank you um it looks like recent me EO updates addressed some audio problems which is nice all right so first off I would like to remind everybody to uh become aware of the not well if you were not aware now you are um please review uh when you have a chance the itf's policies on intellectual property and code of conduct um do we have anybody who would like to volunteer to be a note taker today this is always the awkward part because we can't proceed without a note taker I can do it for the first hour but I'll have to drop at the at the hour um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "are you sure about that because I mean you're going to be leading the discussion right um I thought I was going to do the first part I thought we were going to do um some metadata stuff toward the end right yeah in the back half I'll get to the agenda in a sec but any case I will have to to drop at the hour and looks like Brendon thanks very much this is a second or third time in a row you've done this um so much appreciated okay okay on do the agenda bash um so chair slides which we're going to wrap up presently um then yeah uh Richard is going to lead us through a bug scrub scrub on the open issues on the Mimi Arch and Mimi protocol repositories which were uh just last week moved over into the Mimi working group uh Mimi working group GitHub organization and then um a little later on yeah we're going to talk about the Mimi metadata minimization uh proposal that was just recently circulated By Conrad and Rafael which I would have preferred to do that first but as it turns out um Conrad can't join us until a little later so we have to wait a bit to get into that uh content so essentially we're gonna we're gonna sandwich the bug scrub around the two Rowan go ahead yeah I just um I don't need to talk about it today but I did want to I'm gonna send them a link in the chat to uh a work in progress of the of the content format that contains the PLS and cabore encodings I think we can definitely find you some time to talk about this if you want like um well I I suspect Richard would agree we can carve some time for that out of the like 90 minutes-ish reserved for going over GitHub issues I I mean I think I mostly wanted people won't necessarily have time to look at it so um I you know it's B basically up to you know up to the other participants"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "who wants to you know if they think it would be productive to have a glance at it and make some comments otherwise I'll just send it in the chat okay anybody want to chime in on that I suspect it would be even if you just want to like introduce it um but if you think the main the main value of the discussion on it will be sort of uh critiques and comments that will principally will come up like after anybody has had a chance to review it then yeah we can just circulate it on the list and come back to it I would say if we got if we got time after the metadata thing go go ahead and queue it up and then it can inform people's reading cool okay thanks all right that sounds like a plan um in that case sounds like the next thing up is to look at some GitHub issues um there we go what button do I press here iang let's see stop that always a crap yes s right I get a slides control button but that's not what we want here that's not it sorry folks bear with me pass slides control to me that's not it right that's not it yeah don't have slides okay video audio this is annoying I don't get a button okay good sorry I get notification that you've asked to share"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "screen but I don't have anything to click to approve that which is oh here we go aha aha that sounds good let's see if this if I can share a tab in Firefox from Firefox H that looks good is that visible Yep looks good take it away all right so I figur I'd start with Mimi Arch there are currently no open issues or poll requests on this so this may be a brief discussion anyone have issues uh in mind that we should have filed on this I suppose we can I filed a tracking issue on the protocol this morning about metadata but we can do the same thing here so we can have that as a tracking issue but we can postpone any discussion on that till later any other thoughts on architecture otherwise we'll Bop over the protocol where we do have some stuff okay let's go over to the protocol so my usual order which I do this is to start with P requests because those are presumably more mature um then we can dive over to issues if we get through all these um so all the PRS we have right now um are basically things we didn't include in the uh draft we proposed for working group adoption because we were trying to keep that draft uh pretty minimal um so you know it's a help people under help be a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Consolidated Target that people could understand um so a lot of these are things that are sort of next additions onto the the pro the base protocol document um Ron all of these are authored by you do you have a preference on which we start with we have file download uh looking up internal identifiers abuse reporting and consent um I think consent um was the thing that I I thought was most was most relevant um okay I mean maybe I think these are more or less like in in backwards order from you know like of of importance yep all right so I have the consent one up did you want to te this up R um so basically the idea here is just that you have um you have sort of four things that you that that uh four there are four messages that you could send you could send a a request for consent um so Alice could request consent uh let's say yeah Alice could request consent um to to add Bob to a group uh with or without you know in general or to any group um Alice could cancel that request could basically say I no longer want to I no longer care um just it it could result in less protocol overhead in a provider to client protocol but doesn't it he doesn't really have any um doesn't have sort of strong seman ICS in the um in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "provider to provider case I just it's a sort of like a you know a convenience uh and then there is um and then from the perspective of Bob in this case Bob could um could Grant consent with or without a particular room in mind Bob could revoke consent uh or or you know explicitly say I'm not providing consent um and Bob could do this in in any order with respect to Alice so Bob doesn't need to wait for Alice to say I don't ever want to I don't ever want to provide consent um to Alice I want to say I never want to offer consent to Alice um then it's just you know then there's just a mechanism that does those things so those are The Primitives um and there's some discussion in there about the Privacy um that you know you don't that in many cases the the user would not want to leak for example that they that they said no I don't want to I don't want to ever talk to Bob um but that's common in inst systems that when you do that Bob just doesn't find out um does anybody have have any comments about the about the sort of overall requirements for for this kind of a this kind of an explicit primitive one quick clarification R all of this is uh targeted at the con connectivity establishment phase so when uh Alice is initially uh asking to to get in touch with Bob or to add Bob to to a room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um I mean I think that this is the place where it would most often be used but you could use it in um if you had a if you had an instant messaging system where you wanted to be able to only only offer you know only allow consent on a per room basis uh then you wouldn't necessarily do that in you wouldn't necessarily need any kind of connection at all it just be you know Alice asked to invite you to you know to these the following three groups in you know there would be three separate requests saying you know do you want to do you want to join this acrobatics group do you want to join this you know this socialization group and you do you want to join this time share group and you could you know Bob could say yes to the first two and no to the third one but what what I meant is like if you imagine a scenario where Bob is in the past consens to being in five groups with Alice and is involved in those groups already but then revokes consent uh to be connected with Alice I don't think you're trying to address that case right right you're not saying that revocation of consent would result in some some change to those rooms it doesn't yeah it doesn't change the change the rooms it just Chang changes what happen happens if Alice tried to you know reinit for example and then go and fetch a key package for Bob to add Bob to the replacement room then then that that permission would have been revoked and that consent would have been revoked and Alice would no longer be able to get packages for Bob for that room other folks have thoughts on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Conrad Travis I think I guess Conrad's not on yet but Travis I think you'd commented on this in the past uh yeah I took a look at it um I'm still contemplating some of the I guess like safety considerations around it of um like personal user safety and all that but I think vaguely the the the pr looks like a great Direction forward okay um so maybe one thing to think about although that's not directly related to the PR but the question is uh regarding the the metadata privacy on the server side what does it mean if I block someone um that one I think is particularly tricky because that's one of the scenarios where you want to trust the server actually to enforce the block for you but at the same time that reveals that at least in the past you were connected to someone um so yeah it's I don't have an answer or suggestion right now but uh something to keep in mind I mean I I don't think it actually reveals anything because when you um if if Alice tries to fetch a key package um either either she will be able to get a key package or not um if she's not able to get a key package she'll get a message that says you don't have consent or you don't have consent in this room and that message is under the control of the provider's policy right the provider can just no but that's not what I meant what I meant was on Bob's provider um there will be a troice that you know Bob was connected to Alice once because Bob has blocked Alice so this is what we want to avoid you in general yeah I I mean I think in general this um the this consent is talking about getting key packages and I think key packages in general you know I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "anticipate this will be a main topic of discussion during the latter half of this of this call but um yeah I me the existence of direct of a of a directory a provider directory of key packages makes makes all sorts of metadata privacy possible and it's not strictly required for Alice to talk to Bob if you're will to accept a little bit more you know a little bit less convenience um so you know I think that we absolutely want to have key packages and consent mechanism and if you if you're really concerned about metadata privacy then your client doesn't have your client your provider you know maybe in a mode don't need to don't need to take advantage of those facilities at all I mean if it's purely for the key packages then we actually already have a solution so just just to digress a little bit I'm showing on the screen here the the tracking issue I filed this morning about metadata it seems like we have kind of inherent inherent trade-off between servers providing policy enforcement functions and uh exposing metadata to those services to support the policy enforcement um so I I think we'll there's a general discussion to be have had here about what Ser what policy function servers are providing and you know what what Med they get this those too so um I think it's a good thing to keep in mind we got we got the tracking issue um yeah back to this one sorry other other thoughts on this otherwise I I would propose we um merge this as kind of a starting point we can always iterate on the details later concerns about that approach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "seems to me if you have no objections and sufficient consensus amongst the document editors then why not uh all right looks like we have conflicts so I'm just going to add a note here yeah I I will I will go and resolve any conflicts this is some of these things have been you know they were copied over from the from the previous repo so who knows what's the yep no it's fine so there's there's a note on the on the pr now that you can feel free to merge once once you reserve this resolve those conflicts all right next um here uh abuse reporting R this is also yours to this up yeah um I mean I think I modeled this very much as U the ability for someone to say there has been abuse and to provide um the specific messages that that were considered abusive like a specific number of of messages that were considered abusive um and the the kns and decryption key that is only specifi that is only relevant for that message in MLS um so this is a this is very you know is very MLS specific um but this I think in terms of being able to demonstrate that there is a that there was a way to do this this was very important uh that we received feedback from um from two large operators that this was uh that they that they needed to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "understand how they could go and do something like this without necessarily you know without necessarily uh drilling down on the details of the mechanism they needed to see in existence proof so that's what this was for um there hasn't been a lot of a lot of review um on what the requirements are but I think it's I think it's pretty straightforward for what um you know for for what it does right now all right so I'm wondering sorry I'm seeing the abusive message structure that it contains like in line um the encrypted application message which I suppose the complainant in this scenario is claiming like constitutes the abuse so is there any way though to prove that the message say actually occurred in the group like can the complainant forge AB um abusive content right that they then um send to the service provider and claim that some other user uh sent to them um yeah I think so but that makes sense to me I feel like otherwise the provider would have to like store every encrypted message so that then they could check that like the abusive message um correspond some encrypted message that was previously transmitted to the group or something which sounds like probably a difficult requirement for providers but I guess the other thing I don't know is like what's this what's the state-of-the-art in IM services for um abuse reports like do they do the ones that are that exist and are already deployed allow complainants to sort of lie about uh or fabricate abuse of content yeah I I think then I'll let Rafael comment about about the ability to come up with such a message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "but there's there's no way for the server to really know um because of the because of the nature of MLS what you know they don't have access to any of the keing keying material for the group therefore there's there's not a lot that can do there but there is the there is the signature of the message and there's the credentials and all that so um yeah let's see what Travis has to say uh yeah uh I guess to briefly answer that that sort of question um the provider mostly just kind of needs Beyond A Reasonable Doubt sort of idea that the the message is authentic in some way uh that can be proven as like hey here's a cipher text and here's a decryption key and it decrypts just fine so it's really hard to to uh to fabricate it in that sense um my question was going to be more around the the continuation of the the thread we have kind of going on the pr there um around um I I'm not sure it makes sense for reports to be sent to the hub uh they should be sent directly to the to the provider noting that um we should never be in a situation where uh reports are are automatically forwarded to the provider where the report needs to be received uh there obviously should be conditions on whether or not a report is sent over this protocol but those conditions are outside the scope of the protocol in my opinion uh hey so I wanted to say that sorry go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "brenon uh I wanted to say that there's not really a forgery risk in the sense that I can totally invent something new that look it was into the group because messages are assigned and we sign the group ID and we sign the epoch um so it does require users to send a message to the group The the forgery risk that actually exists is the fact that you don't have any way to proves that the key and the knots were derived correctly um so I can like have an encrypted MLS message into the group I maybe actually am in the group I did actually mean to in that group but it's I believe actually fairly easy to reverse engineer a key and Anns that makes that encrypt to potentially something else and the M will still verify and everything so the the for risk is realistic and you'd have to add some kind of ranking to fix that um yeah I was going to say something similar so I think because we don't don't have key commitment for um Aid you can forge Cypher text actually um the signature does say that but the problem is whether in Practical terms um the provider can actually verify that signature at the point when it receives a message because it means it needs to have access to um the ad uh Etc so it's like on paper it sounds trivial you have a signature therefore it's authenticated in Prim ice you really need to be sure can always verify that um I think what's still the state-ofthe-art is that is what Facebook does with message franking like brandan said and so um contrary to what you said earlier Tim you don't need to store every Cipher text uh on the provider you can just you know uh Mac it something you can then later recognize um and and in the sense but of course in a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "Federated setting this might actually be harder so that means that the The Hub would do the franking and therefore Only The Hub can actually also verify the franking if it's a symmetric signature because regular signatures would actually be quite expensive I suppose so long story short franking might be the solution here um the proposed approach of of just uh sending the key to the cipher Tex is definitely uh not good enough yeah I think this is so first to Tim's high level point like I think that forgery of uh forgery by the reporter of messages is something we need to have we need to address I think we might need a little bit more analysis on this because uh like Brendan said the signature does put us in a different posture um I'm showing here the the signed data structure at least part of the signed data structure uh in MLS um and so the the signature is bound to a specific group ID and Epoch you know all that stuff that's in the header of the MLS message um so we're going to just by by virtue of the MLS signature structure we're in a much stronger position uh than the usual franking scenario um where you you just have an aad um here you have that asymmetric operation that binds to a bunch of stuff um so we're basically yeah on the one hand you know that MLS is not deniable and a bunch of people have done hand ringing about that but here we actually benefit from that non-repudiation um it's plausible to me there's still um you know there's still a few copy pasting risks that um that franking could help address"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "um but yeah I think we need a little bit more analysis to see exactly how much the the uh the signature here gets us and whether we need that the extra franking mechanism Rafael do you have further thoughts Raphael you are next in the que did you mean to be in que sorry um I was a mute Pro for that so um the interface is tricky um so yeah in the Sous approach we're going to talk about in a minute um you also use signature Keys um but they're not directly linked to your identity because they're pseudonymous so this would make it you know way trickier for a hub actually uh to verify them and if it succeeds then it means that somebody has been de anonymized which is not great so um yeah I'm I'm quite cautious about using the MLS signatures as a franking mechanism wait rapel say that last last bit again I I was with you it sounded to me like like this the signature could help even in the uh metadata limited case but then you came to a conclusion I wasn't expecting well I mean it it's still you know the same signature mechanism but first of all the Hub is missing the link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "between the pseudonymous identity and the real identity I see that's a practical problem if we want to resolve that link we have de anonymized someone which we maybe don't want to do so we're between a rock and a heart places in um so arguably the one time that you do want to De anonymize uh a ponus user is if you verified that they are are AR an abuser but it requires the cooperation of of the clients like the The Hub can't do it by itself the providers can't do it by themselves um so I think that that there's a requirements discussion I think we I think we have done pretty well so far and Mimi with coming up with uh with a small small set of you know with a small set of guiding principles that are requirements related but we have not we don't have a requirements document we don't have you know I don't think that we have consensus on requirements in detail at the moment and I think that's where a lot of that I think that's where we're going to have you know a lot of our discussions are going to come down to what are what are the real requirements and I think it's you know I I'm not saying that we are doing things out of order here I mean I think that I think that you can kind of proceed you know kind of go back and forth between protocol protocol design to a certain point and then you know revise your requirements and and and go back and forth in that way but I I think that that's uh what particularly when we have this metadata privacy discussion it's going to be a question of metadata privacy with respect to which parties and how much and and what what other properties"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "do we give up when that mode is enabled or whatever um just a met a comment there so I would like to go back to a point that Travis raised this question of where abuse reports should go it seems like there's at least a few scenarios you know it seems like the reporters provider would like to know seems like the Hub might also like to know um so that it can you know adjust its reputation for the abusive party um then there's the abusive users provider again moving the reports closer to the uh abusers provider could help quench it but also could reveal information um and I suppose there could be some some interest by the other providers involved in the room so we have at least kind of four cases um um that we might want to address here I think this is only covering the reporting to the provider I think reporting to the the reporter's provider doesn't actually need a a Mimi action um because it's just between the reporting client and the provider so but the other other three cases remain so thoughts on that BR yeah um okay so Harold said you shouldn't send reports to the abusers to the alleged abusers provider um and I think the reasons for that are the the reasons why you may not want to do that are very are very clear but I guess the question is does anyone think that there are situations when we need to be able to do that um as opposed to there being some outof band disclosure mechanism you know you know that doesn't even necessarily need to be an you know a protocol over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "IP between the Hub and the and the abusers provider is anybody think we need that you know because then then the only question is do we send it to the hub and you know we can't control whether it's sent to the local provider because it is always sent to the local provider okay Travis do you have thoughts uh I guess to take the question a step further back uh what are we trying to solve as part of the abuse reporting mechanism because it kind of feels like we may be almost cross purposes in a sense where there's the um the the case of trying to to inform another provider whoever that may be um that some form of um undesirable content has occurred uh versus almost what would be considered I guess like a takeown notice of like hey I I strongly believe that this should not exist uh please remove it and the responsibility of those two things Falls to different people um because if we're trying to trying to or for just trying to indicate that something is undesirable uh that doesn't need a um who is reporting this field uh that that just needs a flag to say like this content is undesirable it gets distributed amongst providers in some way and decisions can be either made or not made based off that information whereas this this PR kind of feels like it's more um almost like a a client server endpoint that has bled into the protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "document almost um trying to figure figure out how to um from a user perspective indicate to somebody that hey please deal with my report which again is a is a very different uh operating environment yeah um so I haven't heard anybody screaming that we need to be able to notify the the alleged abusers provider uh with using the MIM protocol um the uh the reporter's provider presumably is going to get this through the client their client to provider protocol so the question is why would we why might we need to send this information to the hub and I think this comes down to what's the room policy so if the you know if the if the hubs The Hub provider is ultimately responsible for enforcing its policies that uh you know the Hub could have a policy that says well I'm going to enforce I'm going to enforce my you know enforce the following rules for my providers but you know everybody here has signed a you know an agreement and you know feel free to write our lawyers if there was a problem uh you know here's how you can contact the other providers um however if you want to be able to capture this in an automated way particularly where you know we've got key schedules where this where you know you're automatically deleting uh decryption keys and so on then it seems like even if some Prov not every provider you takes advantage of the mechanism as a as a and like uses it that that there are many hubs where they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "would want to know so you know if there's a WhatsApp group and WhatsApp says you're not allowed to have you know here's our acceptable use policy you're not allowed to discuss you know paid speech terrorism you know child pornography whatever and somebody wants to to send a report that they want to be able to see that in order to be able to make their own decision about that and I think that that is a you know I think that that's a reasonable request on be behalf of a provider considering that they are on the hook uh in terms of legal liability and and I don't think it needs to be mandatory that everybody has to use it uh I guess as a a point of clarification The Hub is enforcing the room's policies not its policies um the The Hub can't invent policies um and so like that kind of opens up the question of I guess like what kind of abuse reports are we trying to prioritize here because there's again multiple different kinds like the space I think is larger than we anticipate um where um you know cam should be reported to the hub because the Hub has that legal liability concern um but reports of I just don't like this user um or what they said that can probably just not go to the hub and go to the individual reporter instead or to the abusive um provider instead uh so it almost feels like the the mechanism here should be just a generic um send report to provider uh potentially anonymously uh given the sensitivity of some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "concerns um and then yeah it's an implementation or specific provider level responsibility to decide when and how to use those different endpoints um particularly under their their legal requirements um whether that's send everything to the hub or send everything to the abusive uh provider or some combin there um potentially broadcasting it to every provider um if if if desirable I actually ined to ask a question of the chairs um if they could maybe remind us what if we have any guidance from the charter on what we should be working on with regard to abuse thanks for that exciting opportunity Richard uh yes so with the text that's in the charter um actually as far as abuse goes only discusses two things that are explicitly out of scope um the first being metad dat processing to manage spam and abuse the second being development of anti- spam or anti-abuse algorithms so I don't know in my personal opinion what we're discussing here I don't uh excuse me what we're discussing here um does not apply to the second point and I don't think that we're discussing like algorithms for detecting a spammer abuse or managing it or like assigning risk reputation scores to users so I don't think we've run a foul of that um but metadata processing to manage spam and abuse is perhaps a bit more ambiguous um in that you know does an abuse report constitute metadata um I I would might emphasize processing in that um and we're just defining what the metadata is that you might exchange yeah as opposed to say reporting it to a provider so that the provider so that that provider can do something with it yeah that makes sense to me um yeah yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "I also go ahead go ahead um personally my intuition here is that the implicit requirement is to do at least as well as existing messaging services too um because anybody who's going to want to participate in Mimi like is I think several people have argued already are under existing uh regulatory requirements to do some sort of abuse uh mitigation right and management so if Mimi makes that impossible then presumably that's going to be a non-starter for adoption or a deal breaker rather for for adoption of Mimi by these messaging vendors um I thought I had another point on this um yeah I I think it does come down to the essential question I think I think it was Travis raising it of whether this is really a MIM protocol interaction like is this just between a client and its home provider or is this something that Mimi needs to spell out messages for because there's an interaction here either with the Hub necessarily or between providers so that one of them could tell the other like hey my user is complaining about one of your users is abusive um I'm also concerned I feel like if uh Daniel Khan Gilmore were here he might they might argue that we have to be cautious about punting too much of this to just say like well all we have to do is provide a mechanism by which somebody could indicate to a provider that like something bad may have happened and then the provider will figure it out amongst themselves because that might create an implicit requirement that in order to do Mimi um you know you must be this tall to ride the Ride Like You must have this big of a legal team uh to participate here and to be able to like sign the necessary contracts with um the big players and that worries me a bit okay people are jumping in the queue so I'll be quiet yeah I mean honestly I think we we'll see how things shape out but I I wouldn't be surprised if there was a you may must be this all to ride at this in terms of this stuff anyway um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "on the question of whether this is a Mimi thing I think even if this is uh largely a local interaction I think there's some benefits of documenting how to address the reporter forgery problem that's a thing where there's a bunch there's a bunch of academic work out there there's some deployed art but not a clear interoperable specification so I think a specification of how you can address that report forgery problem in the MLS context would be handy kind of irrespective of anything else as long as we we think there's going to be some reporting mechanism Lista hey can you hear me okay yep or no yeah okay sorry I'm in kind of a l place um I also just wanted to raise the question of the need for like what is the actual need for standardization of the this communication between the providers um because you can potentially imagine that different pairs of providers make different Arrangements about um what data they want to exchange for abuse reporting like if two of them already have very similar um uh you know formats and categories of of data that they use for abuse reporting in their existing systems then maybe they want to just use that um but if there's a third one like maybe they want to do it a different way so I don't know I just I'm not totally I I can definitely see how having like some mechanism by which providers can uh trust each other to exchange like generic information is useful um and maybe that it ties into like a specific message ID or something um but otherwise I I am just curious like what the need for standardization"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:07",
    "text": "is uh I guess to try and answer both questions uh relatively succinctly uh I do think that there is a need to have um an endpoint uh between providers in particular where this abuse reporting can happen um I don't think it's necessarily responsibility of Mimi to Define what the individual regulatory or compliance requirements are on a provider um there may be some advice given around the the the specification but not necessarily within the specification um and that's largely just because the regulatory environment is different for every provider um if you're in Europe uh it has been largely decided for you um what what those requirements are um and then if you're in the US it's a different thing that may or may not be changing depending on the the state of those sorts of proposals uh the need for standard need for standardization is largely um regardless of the environment all of the environments need some way to report to another provider that something has happened the requirements of whether or not you handle that um either immediately or like the sort of operating uh procedure of receiving that report uh that is defined by the regulatory environment not by not by meimi necessarily Cory hi um so I'm I heard the word charter so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "I've appeared um channeling Roman I'm I'm new to the work so I just want to understand are we is this consideration here that there there seems value in standardizing an endpoint and some aspects of a data model regarding abuse but you know as Alissa pointed out per well as the chairs have already said you know Med data processing to manage spam and abuse is out of scope and the development of anti- spam or anti-abuse algorithms is out of scope so defining this endpoint and possibly some of the data model issues I just want to understand what the what like what the value of standardization would be given those scoping considerations so and I'm I'm sorry I was sort of zoned out before I heard the word charter so if you could just recap briefly the sort of what's What's happen I mean what's being proposed here and how is it impacting these particular scope items in the charter thanks yeah just to remind you yeah go ahead R okay so I was going to say um so in like to give two concrete examples so the the users the the the sender the the reporter's provider and the alleged abusers provider let's say that they both are in North America and there is a hub that is located in France and there's a policy on the room that says that you know per you know per French law you're not allowed to discuss uh you know Holocaust denying or S sale of Nazi memorabilia um so providing a mechanism where someone can say I think this is in violation of the policy that the policy of the room and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "provide the you know provide a a way to decrypt just you know just a just specific messages that appeared uh in the that were sent to the in the context of the room um that that provides A Primitive that can then be used using whatever policy is defined elsewhere uh um and is out of scope um likewise another example would be you could have a group that is that has all sorts of discussions and images that are uh that are explicit but it's hosted in Japan and the room policy says there may not be any display of pubic care so those are those are both you know pretty straightforward legal requirements in those in those countries um thanks yeah I was going to say something a little different which is my my read here is that basically what we're talking about with this mechanism is an input to those things that are out of scope so the providers that are involved in a m interaction are going to do some computations to decide what what's actually abusive and what actions to take but they need to share some information to as inputs to those algorithms and that's what we're talking about here and that process may be also it may be it may be human or may be automated right it's not necessarily the input goes into a into an algorithm the input could into a computer algorithm it could be into a human algorithm so sorry tack on an opinion sorry it feels we to speak it feels weird to speak as the chair but um we were talking about um report of forgy uh sorry mechanisms to address reports or forgery uh and the ones that we started sketching out here uh like depend upon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "depend strongly upon the the detail of MLS that being the case like MiMi seems like a great place to then Define those uh those mechanisms for authenticity of um of of abused reports especially since like I think by definition this is a problem where you want it to be generated on one client and be verifiable by like an arbitrary provider so that does seem like valuable work for this working group um yeah so as you can see on the screen I've been sketching some trying to sketch some conclusions here as we're we're kind of running up on time um it seems like folks agree that you if we do have a reporting mechanism here we need to address this reported forgery problem and we'll figure out what the right set of cryptographic mechanisms are um the other point I was going to capture here is that you know it does seem worth having uh and Point here for sharing anti-abuse information um whether that's an endpoint specifically on the Hub for a room or more generically inter provider uh as Travis suggested um seems like we're not clear on exactly where the endpoint is but having an endpoint definition seems useful um do anyone have strong disagreements or reservations about those conclusions I guess just as a future concern on the reporter uh forgery side of things um it is important to at least me that we protect the identity um human or otherwise of the reporter itself um primarily to prevent future abuse reports from from being filed effectively yeah from what I know of these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "mechanisms that should be a fusable requirements all right um what do we think next steps are here Rowan I think you are the author of this PR do you feel like you have enough information to revise this um it's currently draft so I guess revise it into a potentially mergeable State yeah I I will need some um I think I'll need some from somebody on uh you know forgeability franking text uh and possibly mechanism um but once once I've if I've got some plausible mechanism there then I can come back with something that we can you know we can uh discuss briefly on the list or can can check in if there if there seems to be a quorum all right I think that bring and um and uh yeah I mean we're we've got four minutes left for the you know the first half um do we want to just skip the other two PRS here so we don't have to skip them for say what uh I think what we should do next is cut over to the conversation about um metadata minimization and should we wrap that up before the end of the overall two-hour session uh we can cut back to going through PRS and issues on the uh Trans on the protocol document sounds good to me sounds good to me okay in that case thanks Richard you're off the hook for now um there we go okay so uh con Rafael are you ready to talk about metadata I assume you don't have slides um you're welcome I don't know if you have anything you'd like to throw up on screen I'd be happy to share the the the draft you submitted yeah so sorry Hi everyone um we do have slides I'm couble together a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "few slides I can send you the impressive Google Slides link should be should work whoops uh one second um just copy it into the chat here where is it where is it now interfaces yep and I can try sharing uh in the past that's worked with okay I granted you screen share now I guess you just got to fight with your browser to find the right tab yeah one second let me know if it doesn't work I can do I share it from here and drive the slides all right there we go work awesome in that case take it away okay um so metadata minimization first maybe let's talk about what we want to do and what we don't necessarily want to do so the goals here um are that a remote service provider from the point of view of a user uh can track that users activity across groups um and we different we differentiate here a bit between the users's local service provider versus the remote remote one um because at the user's local service provider it really depends a lot on what the users's interaction with the local service provider looks like and that could preserve those guarantees and um you know help help maintain them or even give better guarantees but here we're focusing on the a scenario where a user is interacting with a hub that's not his"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "own service provider but of course we can we can discuss uh at at some later date maybe what it could look like on the user's local service provider uh so non goals um although we might like would be nice to do but at least we don't want to do it with this proposal is provide like complete anonymity um uh and uh we don't obate any nwork traffic patterns we would consider that orthogonal so you could use tour or something or a mixnet if you wanted to do that and we also don't hide any ingroup activity uh as you will see the it's pudum based so uh each user has a pseudonym in a group and with that pseudonym the server can see like the actions of of each uh of each pseudonymous user um so what do we do we do uh as I said we want to use pseudonyms and kind of our main tool sorry Brendan's in the queue do you want to take questions now or yeah please go ahead Bren sorry but didn't see the hey I just wanted to ask if you could expand more on what you mean when you say you don't want to provide anonymity like do you mean you don't want to provide anonymity between the user and its local service provider or um we we use we provide pseudonymity within a group I just wanted to like like we're somewhere like it's not users are not completely Anonymous when they interact with the remote service provider is what I was trying to say so um it's not to the level of uh where you I'm not even sure you'd be anonymous completely Anonymous there but if you encrypt handshake messages for example as you proposed um you'd have a much stronger guarantee I was just trying to kind of manage expectations a bit in terms of what we can achieve with this sidonis approach um although and I I didn't list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "the the the benefits that we get with a pseudonymous approach as opposed to a kind of completely encrypted approach is that we're still using non-encrypted handshake messages and the server can still keep track of the retry in MLS terms and the group State and thus can help new members uh join a group by providing that for download and you don't need to upload everything with every commit because the server doesn't uh know what the group state looks like okay so we want to use um maybe I can quickly interject here um so I think it depends from which perspective you look at that so from the perspective of the server it is of course Anonymous so um I think there's even a legal definition of what Anonymous and pseudonymous means uh in the context of data protection so pseudonymous means um it's merely an alias uh to something to to real identity and that is true for all the users in a group but from the server's perspective um it is truly Anonymous in the sense that server does not have any information to correlate pseudonyms with uh real life identities right okay so depends a bit on how you define Anonymous maybe my my understanding was that it's not really Anonymous if you can provide like a an easy link for someone to to connect the real identity with the anonymous one or the and then it would just be a pseudonym but okay let's just talk about how it works and then people can can see what what we're trying to do here or do you want to go deeper into this discussion okay um I can actually move the window here you can see the slides okay so we're mainly going to use these credentials and um call them pseudonymous credentials and the pseudonymous credentials contain or kind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "analogous to the real credentials or it's not clear what they look like yet because we don't have an authentication Service of MIM yet but uh you'd expect them to include a user identifier and a client identifier and the anonymous credentials contain a user pseudonym a client pseudonym and the per group signature public key this is the signature public key that you also use to sign your MLS messages in the group and the pseudonymous credential also contains this kind of real credential whatever that's going to look like uh but in encrypted form and then uh what we need to talk about is what are the challenges that arise from using these credentials while still allowing people to authenticate fully authenticate uh each of the group members and uh yeah manage these credentials and dist them that kind of stuff okay so let's uh now I've hidden the window here somewhere I bet there we go okay so what are the limitations with the approach just to put it up front so this requires the notion of connection between users so this and I'm not sure we we've settled on whether we want this from Mimi or what exact it looks like but it's a notion where uh you have and then you find this in in many messengers of course you have people on your contact list or um those are the people that can essentially for the purposes of this approach those are the people that can add you into groups and those are the people that have the uh Power to um reveal your identity um like connect the the pseudonymous credential with the real credential and do that kind of um partially in the context of a group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "ran yeah yeah um I guess uh I was imagining you could do this in uh in a different way which would be um if you don't have connections and the policy of your the room that you're in allows pseudonymous um pseudonymous messages the user could reveal to everyone in the group their their real identity um by saying you know this ponm is you know by providing a binding um we don't you don't necessarily need a connection in order to do that and you could have been invited by you know you like a you know your your friend or a third party who's also in the group sending you like a a joining code or you know sending you a group info that you use to join and then you say you know you could be you could be you could be rendered different with your pseudonym until you or even you know may maybe not allowed maybe your you know any messages you send or hidden or you're not allowed to you know you're not allowed to have to do certain things but then as soon as you start uh as soon as you reveal yourself to the group then you get more privileges yeah that's a possibility so we try to go for the completely asynchronous approach and try to get like immediately try to figure out what's needed for iMed immediate kind of authentication upon joining but of course you can delay that until someone comes online and then later reveal who they are and and for that you don't need a connected user right yeah and I I didn't mean to say that you shouldn't go and do this connection model I just wanted to make sure that you know that we we might have you know we might have two or three approaches and we can kind of you know pick your own pick off the Chinese menu as it were that's fair and just to note that in this uh other mode where you have this um later reveal um yeah so if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "don't have a connection you need this later reveal you cannot immediately uh have a revelation if someone just adds you to a group out of nowhere but that's fair I guess so um uh that also means and and I guess that's essentially what uh what R just said like or kind of as a coroller external joins become more difficult because you can join externally that's fine but then um but then you can't like that's kind of as a flip side if you join a group without having someone invite you then you don't know who anyone is everyone is going to look pseudonymous until someone comes online and uh gives you the key material required to authenticate everyone so there too is this kind of delay RAF here yeah I just want to get back to one point that Richard raised uh while back so um the whole effort here is not so much how to actually upus skate the data or to make it disappear that's relatively easy the the whole point here is that we can still defend ourselves against dos attacks malicious Insider attacks Etc especially in a federative environment um and uh have the Hub or other providers retain some power to actually evict users Etc in case of malicious behavior so the the real difficulty lies in having these mechanisms in place and and not making the information disappear and just for context right okay um maybe let's jump into a few details on what this entails then in terms of uh mechanism so the mimimi approach um couldn't resist the name sorry uh so this is just a sketch of how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "we could do this connection establishment in a um in a privacy preserving manner similar to this uh seal senders approach again this is just a sketch U kind of showcasing the the principle we can of course tweak it uh so here um the clients or users would publish a connection initiation key which is a public hpk key and they would publish that to their uh service provider when they create the user and the service provider would then uh make that available to other users so the initiator who wanted to initiate a connection with the responder could fetch that connection initiation key uh then they would create a group and then they would encrypt the group ID and their own connection key and the connection key is the key that's required to link this real identity with theonomous identity uh so they could send that to the responder the responder would then do an external join into the group that the initiator created based on the group ID and maybe we'd have to add some more like an authentication token that would allow them to join this group um and sorry I'm talking about groups here because our kind of primary goal was to make this work on a kind of cryptographic function level within MLS rather than uh the room level which is the level to which we yet have to lift it but we wanted to talk about this whole thing conceptually uh at first and then we can figure out how to how to lift into the the world of rooms Brandon okay so um I believe in this group all that you're doing is exchanging the connection key right in in the what sorry can you review that please uh so when you have when you have the responder externally joining the screw from the initiator uh the purpose of doing that have an encrypted channel to exchange each other's connection Keys yes yes yes so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "is there a purpose for having that group is there a purpose to actually make that an MLs group and have a be long lived or is this just like a one-time exchange of connection Keys um yeah for the purpose of this mechanism it's really just about exchanging connection Keys um yeah good point we could we could simplify that down I mean having a a group between connected uh connected users is probably useful for other things like if you wanted to rotate these connection Keys later on you have already have a channel um but yeah uh you're right we could totally make that moreall lightweight okay got it thank you okay good point good point uh oops sorry and then finally uh the responder also of course has to provide the connection key to the initiator Okay so this brings us to a question so if I have user level pseudonyms and we want to disconnect the pseudonyms we want different pseudonyms across groups um but we want to upload key packages and when we upload them we don't yet know uh which groups they're being used in so imagine you have multiple clients as a user um and someone comes and wants to add you to a group they're going to fetch multiple key packages uh to put you in a group and then for those key packages that that the user uses all the user level pseudonyms have to line up so that actually you have the same user level ponm in that group and to do that we have to do um kind of a bit more juggling with with key packages to where uh whenever a client wants to upload key packages it first has to check oh what key packages have other clients uploaded and what are the user pseudonyms that they're using in those key packages and then they upload matching key packages to uh to the point where you have these key package sets where for each key"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "package set you have one key package per client they all have the same user level pseudonym and then different client level pseudonyms um and this is all to ensure that you have the same consistent user pseudonym within each individual group um yeah so that's just a a small limitations in terms of key package uploads makes a bit more complicated but we think that's okay um and then uh right and then one more note on key packages and that's Last Resort Key packages of course if you're running out of key packages and people start reusing one key package in multiple groups that of course makes it visible to the hub that it's the same entity every time they still cannot link the pseudonym to the real identity but they know that it's the same identity across multiple groups um what you you could do for that one you could have more than one Last Resort Key package and then have the provider who provides these key packages to people who request key packages is kind of cycle these key packages to where you have say 10 Last Resort Key packages and then it's going to give out first the first one second one and once it's reached the last one it gives out the first one again so that you have this you still have some um some disconnect between the individual groups that you join Over time uh again like a small quirk in terms of key packages that can be mitigated but yeah just as a note Rohan yeah yeah so I mean I I would say if I were implementing something that where I wanted to have this level of metadata privacy I would just forego using key packages altogether and only use you know only use me methods of joining that that didn't require uh sorry I would foro using uh the the target users"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "would only use you know I I would include include key packages in messages that were sent out of band or directly uh you know in another group or were introduced by a third party only so I I I think that you know while I I don't I don't think it's a bad idea to go and and pursue these you know this idea using Last Resort Key packages if someone is you know someone says well you know I don't like this because this this could potentially leak this information in these cases then there is a remedy which is just don't use don't use directory a directory of key packages for this purpose you can do it in you know here's a here are a list of known ways that that are more safe yeah and and we've experimented so thanks that that's a very good point um we wanted to imitate kind of the the non- metadata private uh flows and and make all of this um all of these flows possible so that's what kind of what we did we also experimented with something that you essentially alluded to just now where uh you have these connection groups and then users provide specific key packages to each of the their connected users and then they have to go on download which is also nice because it leaks less metadata in terms of fetching the key packages and stuff so that's another way you could go about it um but of course you do need key packages somehow if you want to have this asynchronous joining um or sorry this asynchronous adding uh mechanism and then by the nature of these key packages you might run out and then in those cases you will run into Last Resort issues eventually so yeah um but yeah that there there are difficult there are different options for sure and and we've picked out this one because it kind of mimics the the flow that we're already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "using in the non- metadata private version um okay so maybe the most interesting or the most complex part of this whole thing is how do we now we have these credentials uh Sous credentials and Within These autonomous credentials we have these Cipher text that contain the real credentials so how do we manage the keys for these Cipher texts and the idea is to have a connection key and that connection key uh sorry each user has a connection key and shares that connection key with each connected user as the name kind of applies and then from this connection key we derive individual credential keys for each individual key package uh that is generated and uploaded to the key package server or indeed distribute it in maybe in some other way and because we derive these individual keys they're all unique to the key package and they can thus be shared within uh individual groups without um by sh way of sharing one key for one key package uh not all other key packages are also dmize by whoever holds those keys and then um so now we we're in a situation where okay Alis has added Bob to a group and Alis is able to share the credential key for the key packages that Alice used to add pop to the group uh but now we have a requirement to that whoever joins the group also needs all these keys and that's a bit annoying um because it it creates ends up creating quite a bit of friction you have to upload a lot of stuff to to uh so you can you can encrypt that key and send it to the server to get some server assist um but then you encrypt it you upload it to the server so what happens if uh someone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "gets removed and then someone gets added again so should the person who gets added have access to uh to the key material of previously uh removed members or to the uh key material to decrypt the credential keys of previously added members so in a nutshell we want forward secrecy and we want post compromise security for all these encrypted credential keys that we add to the server to make uh Services possible and uh we do that by using a new in air quotes protocol because we haven't looked at the literature enough and probably someone in the 90s was mod than us has already come up with such a mechanism but we haven't found it yet so that's you know it's it's might not be new uh but for now we call it tree wrap and it's essentially kind of a tree wrapping mechanism that looks like like a tree of course and you have a root key that wraps the children and then you have sorry that wraps the well the children of the rout and then those wrap the keys that are in the in their children Etc and all the way up until you have uh the number of uh leaves that match the number of leaves in the MLS retched tree and those leaves are the keys that then uh rep the credential encryption keys and then using similar tree mechanics as an ml we can uh remove uh if someone leaves the group we can uh essentially blank the path to that decryption key for their credential someone adds gets added to the group we can uh create a new path we can extend the tree and all these things and as a result we can do add remove and update operations on that tree uh in login roughly in log in and then uh if someone joins the group they will have to download the whole tree Once unfortunately but that's uh they they going to have to download the group State anyway which is quite a bit more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "so this just adds to n temp 32 bytes roughly uh to the download and then we can have this nice uh very fine grain forward secret and verifying gr post compromise secret construction that protects the uh credential encryption keys of everyone in a group so yeah to jump to jump through a bit of jump through a few Hoops there but we think it's it's possible and this is something we're currently still working on figuring out the Kings and figuring out if something like this maybe exists already and maybe someone's already done some work on this that makes it even better or something yeah okay so that brings us to open problems and there are probably a few more than the ones that I have here Rohan yeah can you hear me yeah okay yeah I was going to say um you know the problem you're describing on the previous slide that that looks pretty cool if you're doing uh if you're doing um individual user disclosure of their mapping of their pseudonym if that sent as a private message inside the group then the then then you know then you get that you get the property that it's only seen by people in that epic people could still remember that later but is that i' I'd be interested you know not necessarily here but sort of you know in the draft like a discussion of like this is not as good as this because XYZ right yeah again this is this is all relatively fresh um it's probably something that can be generalized to something else like there's a thing called updatable uh encryption it might be something like that it might be useful for other things than uh these credential encryptions but yeah it's it's roughly how you say it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "would work so if if I add someone to a group I would then um create the commit and then I will have to uh send the encryption key to uh the added person's uh credential I will have to include that in the commit somehow maybe via a um maybe via a custom proposal and this would be work that we do in the MLS working group of course um but I would have to include that but the rest of the three updates can proa then probably be uh derived from an exporter of the new Epoch in the MLS group and so we can sync these uh Tre WP epochs very closely with the MLS group EPO and get some nice uh fs and PCs guarantees but also we have to send around very little payload um except for uh situations where we well the adder has to download a little bit and the people person who's added also of course has to download the tree to actually get all of these credential encryption Keys Rafael yeah maybe just to to add to that and explain what fs and and PCs means so what that means is that when when a user is added they should not not be able to discover path participants in that conversation they should only be able to discover the people that are currently in that conversation um so that's the one side the other side is that when they leave the group they should no longer be able to track future membership changes in that group so I mean that sounds um pretty straightforward of course so there is nothing special in the goals we're trying to achieve the the only difficulty here was to make that efficient so that we don't have linear complexity uh everywhere if linear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "complexity was okay meaning you send out payloads you know that scale linearly with a number of participants then it would be very easy problem to solve so it was only about making that more efficient H you muted oh yeah thanks uh yeah thanks Rafael for elaborating on on Evis and PCs that wasn't quite clear there I think U but yeah maybe we can jump to the open problems and there are still kind of a few but should be usable though so how do we rotate Keys connection key rotation maybe also credential key rotation although the Tre rep stuff that we're looking at should make this a bit easier um um and then there's a question of user level pseudonym rotation in groups uh can we within a group actually rotate the pseudonym but then of course the pseudonym is used in the key packages of multiple clients potentially um how do we rotate that like arm arm block or can we rotate one and then kind of in the delayed fashion rotate the others um how is that how if we only rotate one what does a new Joiner see and those kind of things we have to worry about all of this is of course solved if we uh use another kind of client management mechanism that we're working on in the MLS group called virtual clients but that's very still very experimental um but yeah so there might be something interesting uh Brewing there as well um did I get any open problems rle I think I added the slide relatively recently um not of the to of know yeah okay um thanks there are probably like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "if we like we've already put a lot of this into a proof of concept and we tried this out it generally works but of course uh we might be missing stuff so we'd be very uh very uh thankful for feedback and uh people thinking through that with us but otherwise that's all I have so if there are any questions or anything else we want to discuss on the metadata front Brandon yeah hey I just wanted to say that I think that the tree wrap idea is really really cool um I just would encourage you to apply it directly to the ratchet tree instead of applying it to the student okay um that's a good question um I mean if we want to apply to the ret tree and encrypt the ret tree or parts of it of course um we might lose the the server's ability to do checks I mean we of course if we do pseudonyms the server already loses track of who's really in the group um yeah right can do policy enforcement is kind of vicious yeah okay that's something we'll have to figure out um we I hadn't really thought of that like so yeah that that' be an interesting Avenue to explore for sure so um I don't don't see anybody else in the queue and I just wanted to um inquire with the group a little bit first of all like what whether people feel like this approach um has desirable security desirable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "know sort of meet whatever you think the the Privacy requirements might be um for uh metadata privacy in Mimi and why or why not and um like what we're thinking as far as this being kind of mandatory part of the protocol like mandatory Implement um would love to hear people's thoughts on it so the fact that this is being applied to like a pseudonym layer instead of being applied directly to the ratchet tree I think that that is creating a lot more sort of protocol junk that needs to be done like you need to think about connection key rotation because then otherwise this messes with um or otherwise this degrades the level of anonymity or privacy that you get um but I think if if the Tre rapid idea were applied directly to the ratchet tree then you would have the performance benefit of server assist um while also having the Privacy benefit of an encrypted ratchet tree but in the current way that it's done with the pseudonyms um it makes it sort of overly complicated and it degrades the the Privacy that you get so that's my that so just to understand if um with your suggestion to apply to the whole ratting tree um that would prevent the server from uh tracking commits right the server can still see when commits happen but it can't necessarily see what is in the commit and yeah yeah sorry I meant more like it cannot reconstruct the tree and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "then assist clients um with the rting tree as they want to Jo well if the thing is that um I think that the way that the I mean in this model the server would not need to reconstruct reconstruct the ratchet tree to be able to provide it proactively to users because the ratchet Tre is already encrypted the users in the group and so you provide the encrypted blob and so that's how you get the efficiency of server assist the server doesn't need to see commits to be able to reconstruct the ratchet tree because it has it in its encrypted form to provide yeah I think the server would lose a bit of visibility and it would like for example in theonomous mode we could still have a uh we could still have like roles where you have admins and regular users and the admins can add users and the server would be able to track that uh a user is adding another user or something whereas in the in the encrypted approach I don't think that's possible so that's something we' lose on the server side so we really have to think through applying policy on the client side and while I'd personally be happy to do that I'm not sure like I'd be interested to hear from people who are uh more on the service provider side would that be an option uh or do you think that's a realistic option in terms of would actual service providers be okay doing policy checking on the client side rather than on the server side already I mean with the limitation that even the pseudonim based approach already hides information from the server um but yeah maybe it's not the right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "uh collection of folks here in the meeting um be interested to hear from folks from Google or something if that be a re realistic option in terms of their requirements oh yeah Matthew I mean I could speak for any service providers on this but I would be very surprised if folks were willing to entirely depend on client side um policy control just from a pointy head boss um perspective rather than anything particularly rational in terms of the earlier question um of how the pseudo stuff feels um in the context of Mimi first of all this looks really really cool really impressed with the work going on here and it's kind of exciting to see innovation in the um privacy perspect no privacy protecting characteristics um that have come up I'm not sure that it helps with dma or interop at all I fully support it as a really cool Next Generation encrypted group protocol um and think it's great and frankly if this was the direction that Mimi headed off in that might end up being more valuable for the internet and the world than actually solving the problem of trying to glue things into WhatsApp which seems to be what dma has become so I'm not sure whether it helps very much and particularly in the context of the chter but I'm slightly conflicted on it and thinking wow this is cool it' be really nice to go off and implement this but yeah it just doesn't help with any interrupt with any of the existing silos where C IDs aren't existing if I understand the design corre yeah I mean we never really considered this an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "option for everyone we like in our minds uh lots of providers like sure from the context of the of the dma like it might not be for everyone but even in the context of of Mimi potentially ending up like being a federation protocol on a more General level there are I'm sure there are going to be like organizations who don't really care about metadata privacy and even want more control uh like they want to see which groups there employees for example are in and so they want this visibility and with the real word identities and so in our minds at least I mean ra correct me if I'm wrong but there's always going to be like this um uh this these two use cases where one you you really want the metadata protection and one you really don't want it because you rely on the functionality and so maybe there's a well way we can have two Mimi modes um but yeah I'm not sure how realistic that is in terms of still having a relatively uh nice protocol design but yeah I think you could do it but you're definitely literally wedging a um round peg into a square hole and vice versa um but it's cool I mean I encourage the work thanks yeah I mean maybe to do some uh some working group archaeology um though I did came from the fact that I initially asked if privacy was in scope or not in the charter and the answer was yes and that sort of led to us trying to come up with something clearly as con said as an alternative but whether it's an alternative or the only mode that's really not for us to say anyway we're just working on on the content here um because it's tough we're doing anyway so the working group can can then decide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "what to do with it and what this cope should be yeah I think um so really appreciate the work that You' put into this and um and presenting it on short notice I think like people need to marinate on the more and umv going to continue to work on it anyway so I don't know that we need like a working disposition for it at the moment I think we more time to absorb it and talk about sorry I didn't quite understand your last sentence could you repeat that please I'm just saying like I don't think like there's a work and group decision to be made right now about this work I think like you're going to keep working on it people are going to it's new like people are going to keep um evaluating it and sending you comments and I think that's a good state to be in for now okay okay so we're going to keep trucking along um is there any thing that folks would want to see more details on so trep people have said are is potentially interesting for uh multiple reasons so that's certainly something we're still looking into and refining um anything else um that people find interesting that we should like in the in the next version of the draft that we should put down in a bit more detail okay um in which case we just keep going and and try to add details what we can Tim um yes no I agree with that direction uh yes so it sounds like then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "that uh we're done with this topic for today I guess that's like last call last call for the queue on this um okay in that case we have 20 minutes left on the clock uh so what's on the agenda is then to go back to uh go back to Mimi transport um I guess we were working through the PRS um Richard do you want to uh resume doing that you're muted in Meet Echo yeah we could do that um I thought Rowan had brought up the content draft if we want to bop over to that for a second ran um I think I need to need another three minutes before I can I can present a give a slide all right I I can f up the protocol PRS real quick judging by how much time we spent on the last couple of things I suspect we'd have time to maybe do one more PR on um M protocol and then I think we'll have to wrap for today I I think that if we if we basically I wanted to talk about the scope of the of the the the second PR from the top I think that that that would be useful especially since or is here um yeah by all means and you know like had some discussion with with with Alyssa about this being in scope and she said yes but you know it's like um you know I think that that would be useful but we don't need to discuss the actual mechanism per se I have requested screen share y sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "that's [Music] right so this is the pr um and this is the API R you want to take it away are you there maybe and I can yeah um so the idea here is that this is uh the internal identifiers uh if you want to be able to search on a single provider um if you have a if you have a handle or you have a nickname you have an email address you have a phone number you have whatever that you have that on a particular provider that you have a way that you could go and and find whatever the internal identifier is for that for that user that you would use to request their you know and this would be the user identifier the internal user identifier that you'd use for catching uh a key package so for example um you know somebody somebody knows um my you know my row. ITF gmail.com uh email address and they just want to check is there a user here that claims to use this email address we're not this is this is on this particular provider right um so this would be like I told somebody I'm the you know I I am on this particular provider and this you know you can find me in this particular way uh this is the handle that I use or this is one of these other these other identifiers that you can use uh to to find me there so um I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "have it seems that people are a bit split between whether this is uh in scope or not so I considered this to be in scope and Alyssa also said that she thought this was in scope because this is something that is happening only in the context of a single provider um and it's something that um or sorry it when I say in the scope of a of a specific provider the searching only happens given that you already have a particular provider in which you are searching so it's not solving the provider Discovery problem which we will be discussing you know on the 23rd or whatever yeah so yeah I was going to ask how how do you think how do you think this relates to Discovery overall so I think that the the provider Discovery problem is largely about find taking either an email address or a phone number when you don't know what providers the target uses and you you know they haven't provided you with any hints they haven't provided they haven't told you what provider they're on maybe they haven't talked to at all um and so it incorporates both the both the users uh the the the target users the discovery problem would incorporate both the target users requirements the um a bunch of verification requirements since we uh you know there's a sort of this concept of TR of proof that John Peterson discussed at the last meeting that these things are entirely are entirely absent right so if I already told Richard out of band like I'm on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "WhatsApp and this is the phone number that I used on WhatsApp and it happened to be you know a disposable phone number that I used when I was in in Australia that's perfectly okay it doesn't need to like I don't need to provide a proof that I still own that phone number because you know maybe I don't even still own it um but I signed up for service on a particular provider with that with that number and that's and that's associated with me there um so this is this is uh you know this is not solving the problem of what happens if you've got multiple multiple providers that say this is this you know I have this same the same um service independent identifier associated with different users which may or may not be the same actual person it doesn't you know like there are a whole bunch of problems which are just just don't exist in this in this model because you specifically know which provider you're trying to Target so so you're seems like you're presuming you know in our taxonomy of service independent identifiers versus service specific identifiers you're presuming that there's kind of multiple flavors of service specific identifiers there's like the human meaningful or user visible service specific identifiers and then the purely protocol internal service specific identifiers that you would that that would you would use for things like key package requests and then the point of this API is to map from the human meaningful or user visible SSI to a purely protocol internal ass side yeah and in fact many services do you know many of the services that we are that we are interested in potentially adopting Mimi do exactly this right um many many of the sort of internal uh user identifiers are the uids when the handle is certainly not my handle on WhatsApp as my you know as a phone number um my handle on uh you know uh on FaceTime is an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:04",
    "text": "email address at at Gmail and neither of those services use that as their as the actual identifier that I would use to touch key packages so the thing that I don't get though is why it's necess NE to enumerate the different formats um of the user identifier so it sounds like like if I understand right this is um response request thing where uh I've obtained like an identifier a service specific identifier for the user somehow that's like not spelled out here and then I want to send that to the provider and exchange it for the URI from which I can fetch key packages why do I like at the Mimi layer need to know that the identifier in question was you know I'm looking at the enum here like an oidc claim versus an email or whatever um like why can't the identifier be sort of opaque um to the Mimi client well I mean the search is more useful if you give more if you give more information right I mean if I'm if I just if I just say Roan and send that and say search for this right this is different than if my I could search for ran and and find you know that there could be 17 partial matches for that uh some in in in some fields that are searched or I could say this is specific to the handle and there's only one that that is an exact match and maybe you know three partial matches okay I see I mean I suppose I would need to better understand in this I guess the stuff we were talking about before how this fits into the broader picture of Discovery like how did the client in this case get the object that they're using as the basis for the query"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "it sounds like you're envisioning that they could be starting with like a natural language search for like Rowan mayhe right well I you there like you just have to go look at what a bunch of different existing providers do um because some of them do allow you to search in particular Fields some of them just just say you know I'm going to search I'm to search for anything in the profile or I'm going to search like for example like wire if you put an at sign before it it searches only among the handles if you put you know if you just put some free text and don't have an app at the beginning then it's going to search uh you know it's going to search for any name that matches WhatsApp is going to match differently right there's um of course WhatsApp is largely matching in your contact in your contact list so there's I just I just wonder whether people are going to end up using like I don't know one of these one of the cases of this enum like handle maybe well the content is presumably like a free form string and I wonder people are just always going to end up using that because it's like the most General but um I do believe your claim that you know that this is informed by existing deployed systems and that is generally persuasive to me in the context of Mimi I guess I don't have anything to add past that uh I guess just to try and reiterate or clarify what the I guess like purpose of this would be um from like a client user experience perspective uh I guess like there would be um say a messaging provider that has a list of um other providers they have agreements with for instance and it's just like hey I want to talk to somebody who I know is on WhatsApp and so they can click the WhatsApp button and then they have a search field they type whatever in and then they immediately go to or they basically they use this API"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:03",
    "text": "in the back end to to resolve that is that roughly correct yes all right yeah in that case then yeah I think it makes sense from a Discovery Point of View uh and how it would be complimentary to some of the other work uh where you might not necessarily know which uh provider somebody wants to be contacted on um whereas yeah here you already know and so it's it's a little bit easier that in that sort of sense okay cool um all right so I've I've introduced the the concept I think we're not going to make any decision here and uh I wanted to still have an opportunity to uh to discuss you know to sort of preview also this content format so I'm I'm about to send something to Tim actually having read it again I have another gripe which is that you have this spelled out as a get request but then there's a body and I think we're going to get yelled at for that uh yeah good point so like I think query might be appropriate I forget what the new the cool new method is yeah uh I I'll create an issue for that thank you that's an easy fix or I actually I won't create an issue because it's already a PR but I'll put it I'll put it in I I'll just leave a comment okay um I don't know if anybody can still hear me but um yeah we can hear you okay I sent I sent an email to Tim with two slides if he's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "still around want to put pop those up uh I could uh oh yeah got it uh just give me a sec to get those so um just to refresh people's memory so we had a discussion uh at in Brisbane about the Mimi content format needing to to pick a um a concrete sytax we did a straw poll between TL using the TLs presentation language and seore and we came up roughly 50/50 uh for each one uh TLS presentation language being um already in use for MLS and cabore being you know a little bit more um designed for this sort of general purpose content format as as a gen general purpose um binary format definitions um let's see here s um uh it might be if you're in a position to share your screen that might be the quickest way to get to where you're sure going okay um uh you should have share screen towards the bottom of your meet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:03",
    "text": "[Music] Echo do you see it yeah there you go okay uh oh crap this is a not sure it's going to allow me to do this without quitting um okay hang on a sec go ahead give it a shot okay let's see if this works permission deny by System okay sorry about that all right I just receiv the slid so I'll throw them up real quick keep you keep talking okay so um to be perfectly honest there was not a huge difference in this in the in the size uh of the you know and both were like it's a little bit um we we have sort of a schema schema list and schema full uh representations of of data formats and in both of these cases um we're using a um you can kind of like zoom in a Time Rowan we lost you for a second yeah yeah I was I I reconnected but I lot but my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "audio became muted after I came back so um okay so in this this is the first example from the content um from the Mimi content document so we've got uh one of the differences is that cabore tries to tries to represent things in a a more generally in a more compact way so uh and TLS presentation language just sort of lists items in a struct in the order in which they they appear um and so here we've got you know one one bite to say there is no there's no replaces header because we're using the optional structs uh for for replace for the replaces information we've got um the length of a topic ID Vector we've got an a 32-bit expires uh uh date um you know all these things that turn out to be zero in TLS presentation language and then we start with our body we're going you know we're providing a body that's going to be rendered and then we have the length of the content type and then the length of the binary content and we send those those items in cabore we're doing much the same thing whenever they're in some some cases when there is when there is uh you know when something is not present rather than than using uh we we have the ability to represent something as null um and every every field is identified with some kind of type so we can represent you know that replaces as null rather than having a u you know a zero for a for a field that says is replaces present or not um so this is this is uh you know quite comparable right these are two octets in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "difference um and you know both require some kind of a decoder to be able to actually like read what the heck is going on um uh if you could go to the next example the next page there's a a slightly lengthier example and so in this case the TLs presentation language is slightly smaller because there are um individual elements inside of a vector don't need a a type and a length um but this is you know this is about as complicated as as the the Preamble part of the you know the the sort of quote unquote header section of a Mimi content docu uh Mimi content message would be and so in this case we're we we were editing a message so we're replacing a previous reply so it has the uh it has the replaces it has the in reply to uh related fields and I also used a a last scene um which is which contains multiple elements so they're two two messages which were the last scene um and then we have a you know again a short a short markdown message and the content type at the bottom not a huge difference here so um I've already received some feedback about hey you know like try doing it try doing it this way and seore um I would encourage people to to give comments about am I holding it wrong for either for either TLS presentation language or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:02",
    "text": "seore um those are those are going to be the most valuable things initially and then if you know anybody wants to go and and say we want to do a we want to do a like head-to-head in terms of uh you know performance or somebody wants to like talk about Library support or what have you that's also useful information but I think want to make sure that we have um a you know faithful representation of the structure that is the most idiomatic using those two formats as we can get and so that's that that's what I'm what I'm looking for from people as the sort of first order okay okay well we're over we're past a scheduled time for today so I think we'll have to pursue that discussion uh on the mailing list uh or at a subsequent interim um on which point uh before we go I should remind everyone that we uh there's one more interim scheduled already uh on April 23rd there V Focus will be on Discovery uh requirements and I think also we're going to hear about uh one proposal for Discovery um beyond that of course like the chairs are willing to schedule more interims say to pursue the the conversations we've having today um so please reach out to us if you're interested in that um otherwise yeah we'll see you all on April 23rd uh please check the data tracker and the mailing list for more details on the schedule on exactly when that's happening as well as me EOL links and the like okay thanks everybody"
  }
]
