[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "you're presenting this can be done but we will need someone to help us taking notes before we get started so let me repeat right we cannot start the meeting without an official minute taker you don't need to take minutes of the slides they are recorded but it's more about taking the questions the name of the guy asking the questions and the answer a summary is enough anyone can help us thank you Reggie thank you if I was yesterday I would have offered you a free glass of wine but okay so with that um I think we are one minute pass so let's get started welcome everyone to the interior uh meeting at ietf 115 Juan Carlos Zuniga myself hello everyone welcome so the usual not well this is an ietf uh official meeting and therefore we abide by the ietf rules procedures processes and policies so uh if you have if you're aware of any ITF contribution that is covered by patents or patent applications you must disclose that fact or not participate in the discussion and of course you acknowledge that uh all uh Communications will read an audio video and photographics may be made public uh any information that you provide to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "the ETF will be handled in accordance with the Privacy statement and you will agree to work and respectfully treat other participants uh if ever you have any issues please contact the ombudsman if you have any questions or you need more information about any of these topics you have a list of BCPS that can be of use thank you so please uh you have a QR code for you to to log in your presence to the meeting instead of the blue sheets so make sure that you sign into the session using this mythical uh from the data tracker and use please the meter code to join the queue that's what we will use here as chairs to to handle the the discussion uh please keep your audio and video off if you are using the outside and wear masks unless actively speaking at the microphone so for the remote participants make sure that your audio and video are off on unless you are talking and well a headset is I think useful at this time uh we have a link to the agenda uh me to go and other information and if you have any technical assistance needs uh please uh go to that page so one last reminder minutes are taking the meeting is recorded your presence is locked so please do lock your presence uh Luigi thank you very much uh for accepting and if anyone can help uh of course this is a collaborative tool so if you make a comment and you want to correct uh any any point uh please do so uh by uh using the the tool the node site etf2 for the chat room you can use the zulit link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "so this is our agenda for today we're going to start with the usual bashing and uh document status updates from the chairs then we're going to have a presentation by Don his link uh who's just perfect okay uh that just uh arrived in the meeting and uh I'm going to continue with a presentation about some IEEE initiatives related to Don's draft um then we're gonna have Bob presenting the Internet Protocol number for chic then IP Parcels from Fred and on E BPF update from dates that were are there any questions or discussion on the agenda okay so here none if you want to give the updates a quick update on draft template parcel so as you know we started a call for adoption after the previous ietf we extended by a few weeks too and there was at the end it was decided that there are no no supports from the community so the draft wasn't adopted thank you thank you very much so with that I guess we are ready to move to the next item which will be don't um would you like me to share the slides yeah I'm not sure it works um no hi I'm Donald Eastlake with future"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "wave this is just a few slides to give a quick update on RFC 7042 bits which I hope people will take a moment to look at and comment if they find anything worthy of comment next slide so it's basically a part of a series of BCP rfcs each one oscillating the previous that have covered the allocation of parameters under the Iana oui basically Mac addresses and things of that sort um and it also touches on the allocation of other uh typically 802 code points that are from blocks that IEEE has allocated to Iana and mentions a few other related pieces of information so much more thorough presentation was given at the last ietf and you can go look at the slides at that URL if you want to see those and it has been adopted by the working group Next slide so uh I think it's in good shape for a working group last call uh there is uh however a couple questions related to the Iana web pages and the provisions there there's currently two Iana web pages one of which is called ethernet numbers for numbers assigned under the Yana oui and the other is called IEEE 802 numbers so the ethernet number is one because Iana controls them uh is it really authoritative and uh the IEEE 802 numbers page is really an informational page which has stuff that's under the control of the IEEE registration Authority so this draft also renames the ethernet numbers page to be the Yana ethernet number page to be more consistent to make it clearer the distinction between the two uh there was a I guess I probably should have put the RFC number on here there was a registry created for uh Ayanna link local Discovery protocol Tov"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "subtypes and uh one that was created it was stuck on the IEEE 802 page when it really shouldn't have been because it's not allocated by the IEEE registration Authority it's allocated under the Yana oui that should have been on the Anna page so this RFC 7042 biss moves it there um and I've checked with the authors of the RFC and the uh and so on and so forth so if everybody's okay with that move next slide uh this is I think the last slide uh the substance so uh most of the activity on the IEEE 802 numbers page that's the informational one uh is relates to Ether types basically uh Andreas read the types there are updated or added to uh when directed by the experts for the registry and it's easier to access information there and to update it than it is through the IEEE authoritative listing also in that page is a short list of LLC sap numbers which is hasn't changed much and the third thing which will would still be there after this draft uh if its draft issues is a list of OU of early oui assignments that's not really something most people find interesting I guess it used to be useful that you could figure out who had manufactured a NIC card or something by looking at the MAC address and looking up there that's that's still true but that is not really getting updated so if people have an opinion as to whether or not that part of an oui assignments should still be retained on this informational Yana web page I'd be interested in that so uh there is some conversation between the ETF and the IEEE about ether types and I guess uh Juan Carlos is going to talk a bit about that thanks Don so uh I'm going to present next and then we'll take q a because uh the next presentation is related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:15",
    "text": "so hi um here in interior and this is uh to give you an update about certain discussions we've been having between IEEE and ITF uh regarding uh this uh Registries and how we can make better use of them please thanks foreign so to give you a background uh don't just give an update about draft ietf interior RFC 7402 bits which is trying to update that document that is outdated and indeed we can provide better information that's a summary much of the Clause 2 covers the IEEE Mac addresses and address policies as stated on the I truly side much of classes three and four covers the III protocol identifiers including ether type and policies now on the IEEE side there are standards uh policies and registration of these parameters that are handled by that triple E and uh there are multiple of these instances but uh here there are three examples that uh will give you an idea of what we're talking about so first we have the IEEE standards Association registration Authority uh committee or Iraq that is responsible for the assignment of numbers such as ether types and ouis so this uh Mac addresses as we commonly use him but uniquely assigned then uh the IEEE sa registration Authority publishes policies regarding the use of these parameters such as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "ether types and Mac addresses and we also have a standards like highee 802 overall like the umbrella of 802 11 15 3 and all that that is in this case managed by the IEEE or 2.1 working group which specifies policies regarding the use of these parameters like ether types and Mac addresses uh now what happens is that there are current developments to amend for instance the use of these parameters in this case uh 802f the young model for ether types and in in fact IEEE standard saver2 as a whole is currently uh on the rearration so next slide please so uh we can anticipate the following uh because the draft here references and talks about the description of these uh living moving Targets in on the IEEE side we can anticipate that the IEEE registration Authority should review the the draft to ensure that there's alignment with respect to the registration of this policies and assignments and also 82.1 working group uh working on this specification should review the draft to ensure that there's alignment with respect to what they are planning to do on this revisions so uh what the discussions we are having on the background we think that we should encourage them to review and provide some answers before we publish to ensure there's consistency with this IEEE communication first point of course we should take into account their views and even as a stretch goal there are some efforts to harmonize the Registries because as Donald explained there are uh the Registries on the Israel police are very specific to let's say legal terms when someone acquires one of these numbers and assignments so it will mention who is the assignee of a number that requested it but here in the Ayana side we have extra information that is super useful for implementers like what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "is this number being used for uh PPP ether type it is that information is missing on left hand side they are the owners we have useful information on the right hand side and we need to somehow keep track of each other and I've heard at least more than uh well a few uh people complaining and which one is the one the official one which one should I refer to so I think it's this is a good opportunity the fact that uh on the one hand we have Donald's draft uh explaining to ETF people what these are and how they should be used on the other hand we have common discussion or constant discussions with IEEE about how they are going to evolve these specifications and why not I would say take advantage of the fact that this uh thing happening to proper will probably harmonize the registry so that we have one single registry most likely IEEE stating for instance the usage of these protocols also from the insi and I think that is my last life so I don't know if there are any questions regarding the status basically what I'm saying here is that uh Donald's draft right now should be from the if the IDF site pretty much ready for publication but because there's all these things happening outside we think it's worth holding on a bit uh before calling uh for publication so that we hear from the IEEE side their views yeah it's not least like from future way again I just want to mention there is a joint iet5ee leadership mailing list that uh notice about this draft has been posted and though this was posted again when it was adopted by the Indiana area working group and so forth and uh along with the request that people in IEEE look at it and no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "comments have been received so far so I'm not quite sure exactly what the path forward is I mean are you sure they should look at it and comment some that would be useful but uh are we going to do a little formal liaison I mean there's a lot of common members that already seems necessary I don't know uh I would maybe let uh I don't know Paul do you want to take that uh thanks Suresh your restaurant yeah hi uh yeah this is Paul Congdon to lock networks I'm also a task group chair in 802.1 and as you mentioned as as we are meeting next week um and my task group has specifically been chartered to do a review of the 70 70 42 bits um we'll be providing a response um the whole point of the IEEE 802 coordination thing is to often avoid those official Liaisons if we don't need to but uh it you know sometimes it's still very important to have them just from raising the awareness and whatnot so it's likely uh that we'll be chartered with um or I'll be chartered with Drafting and a liaison that indicates we're doing this review We would like you guys to wait a little longer for your last call until we've done that but understand the urgency so and thank you for the excellent answer to my question as to what the fast forward is yeah so this comment is for like uh don so um so one of the things that happened probably five six years ago on the iesg is like we needed a ether type and the like uh 7042 didn't have anything I I looked at the biz draft quickly as well and I think like some kind of guidance on like how to get I know like it's not like we don't have a special path to do it but if you can add in some text I can probably give you input about like what to add how I did it as the ad but it'll be good if you can actually throw in an appendix saying hey this is how you go about from the I because it says like IES approval is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "needed but like nobody knows what happens after for the shepherding area so Eric is probably going to be in this position soon he's going to need an e to die but he doesn't know what to do right and um um I don't know if you want to speak about that okay this is Donnelly's like again uh yeah so there's an isg statement which is up in the IHG statements is also included in the draft I don't know if it's good or bad that it's in two places uh and basically it says that uh you need to get iesg clearance before you do that uh previously any working group chair or No Good Reason whatever could go through the obvious paperwork you just go to the Triple A registration uh Authority site ask for an ether type and uh you know basically you say it's for standards use and you you check the I'll pay the fee by wire it's like twenty five hundred dollars but in fact because the standards use they never bill you and it all goes through for free it's very simple it used to be that way so last time this happened there was this funny stuff where somehow I mean I I we should say what we how we want it to happen but there was a I think a belief on some pardon the iesg people that Ianna itself should apply for it or something and it was just it was confused I my thought was that once the isg has approved this then uh this you the working group chair can still apply for it right I mean since I'm the the primary expert on these Registries I could do it for for people it doesn't happen very often maybe once or twice a year at most I mean something like that so yeah six years ago was the last time it happened so okay so it's not like it's but maybe that's the problem if it happened more often people would learn how to do it so yeah excellent idea to include more specific instructions on how to do this yeah thank you so I think like uh so Suresh again sorry to like get back uh Rob and I had a few but I think that was a fine so like I found this page by Google search to go where to apply for the stita type even though I already got the ASG approval right so I said hey go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "to this page and and don't do the payment that kind of thing so it said like it was 1500 back then I think but like yeah same thing right you just didn't know what to do so I think some informational appendix it says like hey this is the current procedure at the time this draft is written it might change but this is just a general thing you won't get charged for it and after that is your approach you can go ahead and do it uh so Rob Wilson Cisco um trying not to step on exercise and my suggestion is as well as the A's and Alias uh we have a meeting with them once I really think it's four months it's like once before each meeting if you were to email um Russ and Dorothy and ask them just to track this as an issue it's already tracked is it okay oh fine okay okay so it's very tracked okay yeah I think so indeed it's it's uh it's tracked and and also Donald mentioned but I just want to stress so so there's a 2X expert uh been uh referenced in the Ayana pages and it's Donald and me so if you want to to ask questions and we should be able to help but uh more than that the idea is to make it easier in the future and you don't have to ask questions the information should be available and also more coherent all right so with that [Music] um our next speaker is oh next is Bob many of these slides are pretty much what I had my last presentation back in July with some slight modification"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "um so this is requesting that for the lp Wan um State um stateful context header compressions chic to be having a a protocol number assigned so we can do Chic at the VIP level instead of having to do it higher next slide please so um why and this is reviewed the slide I had last time networks are complex and what if the constrained link is within the link in in the path that the uh um that is the endpoints node of the constraint but have no control over it um all IV contact is within a non-compress or all of economies in a non-compressed security wrapper example dot ESP or dtls so we have these cases we're looking at and particularly in in my area in aviation that it may be avionic system inside the plane which has no understanding this it knows there's a constrained link there but has no control over it it just has an Ethernet connection to the planes Network and going out from there so how can the the the application inside that avionic system talking to some Ground Control Systems somewhere again on an Ethernet Network be able to compress so doing this at at the IP network layer instead of what Sheikh has been doing others would be highly effective in consuming a very scarce resource of that RF link um to the aircraft next slide please so if if the IPv6 next header were Chic the rules can be compressed for transporting on up to the security envelope so like in many cases UDP will compress to zero bytes because everything you need for UDP is really in TC in dtls and um if you only have the one application running what do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "you UDP for um so um and and so that helps um and you can even indicate what rules for within the security envelope so you may say able to say like for what's in the envelope here's I'm going to compress that so we get a significant gain by doing this next slide um we can effectively it effectively comes a transport when Chic becomes the next header that effectively becomes transport that then processes whatever transport is within it um and still transport the original transport layer compressed example have UDP CRC when ESP and dtls has better they have Macs so why with the CRC and provide new valuable transport functions so one of the things we're discussing right now in the chart retirement lpwan is to include FEC directly as a Chic option so we can be doing um the Forward Air correction and again making more effective use of our of our scarce on wireless service or raise take a low reliable um spectrum and make it highly reliable by uh by including FEC so we can then have that at this point next slide and just a quick review about uh um about the seek payload it has um the the rule and whatever compression and residue for that and then the payload it's very very Squishy in each case you have something different going on it's very hard to Define it's literally by case-by-case basis um there um there's no protocol numbers we could use for this we do need something new next slide um but there's a question can we really introduce the new protocol um number in the next header um will it just work or will the routers drop this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "and and and there's our ADC that's not a problem um um and what about IP um fragmentation well will result in this well seek has its own um fragmentation so we can potentially pre-fragment knowing again what we may be up against so we could be potentially using the Chic fragmentation and not having to then use IP fragmentation next oops um so it turns out once we head down this road there is more um the lpwan um people particularly on Pascal of the May um says that you know if we also have Chic as an ether type um there are secret cases use cases where that that doesn't concern me but Pascal has these cases in industrial uses um so you can talk about General case for all of you answers instead all the LPN specific cases we can talk about generalizing it um and uh obvious and then you can do an IPv6 header compression on some 802 media so though the draft right now only has um requesting the IB protocol number um the lpuan community says while we're at it while we got this Pandora's Box open maybe we should request all three not just requests an IP protocol number but also request an ether type and when you got a firewall in the way and you want to punch a hole through it you're probably also going to have to do um Chic even at the UDP level uh my fault uh so um you know because I'm the author of RC 1918 and and next and all the rest of that that nonsense uh and it's kato.bv6 uh so right now the draft is only asking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "for for um the IP protocol number and there's been a general acceptance on the list that this is something worth worth doing so there's a question to the work group can I expand this to also add in a quest for ether type and request for for UDP port number or do you want that as a separate effort so that's like an open question to the group of do we just simply take my draft it is right now and do Last Call on it for the for the port number or you say yes Bob go back add in for The Ether type and add in for the UDP port and let's get all three at one time so that's a question for the work group what I'm going to do and and if it's and it is just the port number please let's get last call and let's wrap this up otherwise I will rev the document in the next two weeks okay we have Eric in the queue yeah it was everything Cisco first without any hat about my reaction about a people to call number do you don't need router updates on that right we made some tests in these excerpts for extension headers which are much more complex in the protocol number so specifically in the case you mentioned Aviation the network will be there I said limited domain but at least under a single operating system operator so I'm pretty sure that they make the device uh allowing this API protocol number so for me that's not a problem now putting my ID at you have been adopted just for nappy protocol number okay if you want to do this the first one this is sensible right to be honest but we we need to redo an adoption call and the UDP Port is not in interior okay okay that's the only place in the ietf so you know it's uh you know I am the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "Messenger on those I don't need that but but it's like again like if it makes sense we brought together let's do it if it doesn't make sense there'll be separate drafts separate requests hey babe David black responding to Eric's comment that it's not interior so I'm in the transport area and I'm here to help you um Bob get them all at once and for for just just just for everybody's sanity that way when somebody's trying to do Chic and figuring out how to identify it and all the weird things that got to put it through everything they need to do it is all in one place and you'll be much better off with that draft to find the UDP port and allocating it then having to go dig through the registry to figure out where we hit it so um we can do at home and so forth but if if the consensus is that we got to pull it back and I got to add this in I will add it in pull it back and bring it back then for um um work group adoption on that I think I have one more side which is just basically wrapping it up okay all right one more slide there I think I do so we so the review the draft at either types and needed for course and then actually not start work with last calls rather uh re um re-adoption is what it's meant to be um is that has that been the consensus here and of course I'll take it to the list as we are required to do but I would like to get uh the feel for the uh Community here Bob so sorry uh we have two people before you are so yeah no so sorry I'll just take it first because uh I I have some something to say so perhaps uh we'll hear more details about this but uh it sounds to me that that we need to coordinate this between interior"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "and transporter so so the calls ideally uh us uh David and Eric voiced uh I I agree it's it's important it's probably easier to do it all at once and it's clear for people understanding but we do need to involve uh transport uh to be before publishing and to avoid issues so just something to keep in mind that this will span Beyond interior um I'll just um disagree that you need to do another adoption call for this I mean it's the adoption call was that the working group wanted to work on this part of that discussion is there's two other things to add to the document I think that's fine it's still eventually going to go through a working group last call and then then there's the consensus so I don't think we need to do another adoption call to add these two things so just a quick question like it's not for this group but like something for you to take back um did lp1 have some kind of proof of concept implementation of how this like ether type thing would work because I think there might be like uh so if if I go back like what is the V6 header compression is it going to be like six low pan had a compression or what is it going to be or is it going to be Chic all the way do you know uh Pascal asked me about this yesterday morning okay so I really don't know do you know his suitcase can you get the mic I'll check all the way okay cool okay no I think like it'll be good to kind of like you know just like nail it on like see how it's gonna work and just I think it's okay doing all together yeah I will put in the no why we want to do it in the draft no why do we want a Chic ether type as well I just wanted to say please give it to me I'll say no particular use case we'll be in in the in the document and I'll see that that they'll be where people give me text for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "David David black and do the same thing for you to be UDP Port request right right the paragraph for why you need it uh uh fire firewall firewall pinhole poke if there's particularly you've got to do you gotta report for it just just write that up I mean my my gut reaction to all this is that Sheik is is efficiently interesting new protocol that a UDP Port request uh if it went just straight straight into Ian I would probably would probably get Grand anyhow so might as well do it in the draft and do it all in one place um most recent up is is yeah there's some footage coordination do the transport area but don't don't get don't get all excited about it this one this one feels routine okay thank you thank you uh I will do it and I'll work with with uh my colleagues in lpwan get the strap around and uh and and submit it as quickly as I can so we can keep keep moving this forward and I thank you for your time and uh I look at doing some very interesting things um for um wide area Wireless um from from aircraft both man and unmanned being able to use this and be much more smart in how we use that very small budgeted networks thank you for your time thank you thanks um all right so next one is uh Fred online favorite uh can you see here yes now we can hear it okay so uh since the last meeting when I briefed IP Parcels I have taken okay I've taken the step of implementing IP Parcels this is running code next chart please this is the implementation elements essentially IP Parcels is split between the Linux kernel and I'm using the dtn ltp UDP application for the application layer framing of parcels"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "next chart these are the modules that were updated in the Linux kernel and the ind-10 implementation next chart uh these are details about the Omni interface that makes Parcels capable and the thing to note about this is that has an MTO slightly under 64k bytes next chart this is what a UDP ipv4 parcel looks like I won't go into the details about what it all is in here uh next chart this is more of the same parcel next chart more of the parcel next chart still more of the parcel next chart and finally the end of the parcel this parcel is 64k bytes about 40 pages of this text are are represented in a single parcel next chart this is talking about single segment performance what happens when you vary the size of the segment to larger sizes next chart and this is about multi-segment performance this is what happens when you pack multiple segments into the same parcel next chart so here the next steps that need to be done in the implementation next chart into the backups now in next chart and here's where you can go to find the source to experiment with Parcels yourself that's all I have time for I'll take any questions that there might be foreign go to the previous chart please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:06",
    "text": "are there any questions for Fred we have Eric thank you so everything the responsibility for this entire working group so Fred thank you for the explanation and the Showcase if you wonder why we still have this presentation even if the code for adoption was closed in the sense that not adopted we gave simply a last chance to this effort run thread to get some energy and enthusiasm on this so cool for adoption is close it will stay close except if I see some other people ask oh I've seen this each I changed my mind okay and I want to do it and close it end of this week so by seeing this and the explanation of thread I'm pretty sure that Fred is still available online later you think it's fantastic work I want to review I want to get this adopted do it until the end of this week and then we will reopen the code for adoption and official one okay until now it's closed you stay close if I we don't see the chair and myself enthusiastic people say I want to reopen the code of adoption we want to open it end of this week thank you Fred thank you ready okay I think so as you heard if you have any interest support or curiosity about this presentation please voice it and send a email on the mailing list you're encouraged to do so yeah he's here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "stepped out of cheering the meeting next door to come over here all right so uh the purpose of this is to advertise a side meeting that is tomorrow um ebpf if you don't know evpf I will give you a quick intro in about two minutes uh and then we'll talk about what the actual purpose of the side meeting is because it's a really non-technical side meeting it's more of a process side meeting so next slide uh by the way uh I am doing this presentation wearing a couple of hats my other hat is within the evpf foundation which was recently created to sponsor open source uh projects uh the UDF Foundation has a technical uh uh committee and I am one of the members of the ebpf foundation's technical committee all right so if you don't know ebpf some of you do some of you may be may not um this is a definition ebpf is a cross-platform technology that can run sandbox programs to extend a privileged system component so if you ask me what does ebpf stand for the answer is it doesn't stand for anything BPF stood for something ebpf does not next slide so the best analogy that I could give and I'm going to stretch it just a little bit here is that JavaScript is to the browser what ebpf is to an OS kernel so for example JavaScript isn't just for browsers evpf isn't just for OS kernels but that's the dominant case and so what JavaScript to the browser is it said you are not beholden to however the browser shipped whatever that functionality was because you can extend it with things that you can download and and it allowed the browser to be programmable OS kernel is the same thing do I have to wait for a new version of an OS kernel ebpf allows extensibility without waiting for new version just like JavaScript did for the browser okay so that's the rough analogy don't want to carry it too far but that's next slide there are multiple implementations the most dominant one by far is in the Linux kernel this is showing how components are organized in the Linux kernel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "implementation adpf is also in say offload cards if I want to extend a hardware card then those that support ebpf you can download a program into a card and run things there but in the Linux example the red lines consider what is untrusted okay and so you start off by writing a program in your language of choice C rust go whatever it gets compiled into ebpf program byte code and then a any application can use a library to load that byte code into the uh privileged context by sending it to a verifier that verifiers a static verifier that runs a proof if it can prove that that code is actually safe meaning it only touches safe memory it uh it actually halts meaning it doesn't now have an infinite Loop or whatever if it can actually prove that then it can continue to pass then it's considered green at that point okay if it can't prove if it's indeterminate it's rejected okay and so once it's provably safe according to the definitions of the verifier then it can be jit compiled and run natively and interact with the component like the TCP stack and it can expose shared memory that things can interact with according to whatever the actuals are on that shared memory okay that's what evpf is it's a way of extending stuff with the the key security aspect is how the verifier works okay so that's what ebpf is all right and again this is the Linux kernel other implementations have different Assemblies of is there a user space a kernel space or whatever because it's extending a privileged system context this is showing the kernel could be a network card could be a user mode demon that's privileged whatever it is okay so next slide so I'm not you know roughly what ebpf is there is a desire to standardize some of those things as you get more cross-platform and implementation more network cards and so on um these are a number of areas that are expected to be desirable to standardize we have other organizations like nvme that need a referenceable spec because they want to take a dependency on some of the ebpf you know definitions and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "functionality and so if nvma nvme and other sdos want to point to us back what is the right place to have a spec to do and so here are seven different categories of things that that are different boxes or arrows in the previous slide that makes sense to standardize some cross-platform things for it okay so next Slide the purpose of the side meeting is to decide what if any of those things might be on scope for the ietf does it make sense to actually have a buff here or is it better to take them elsewhere okay that's the purpose of the side beating so we're not going to get into the technical discussion it's going to be about those seven categories that says yeah you have actually an appropriate place or not right it's a hybrid meeting which means we'll have a bunch of the evpf community the Linux kernel people will be typically remote yeah you have people will be local and we can have the discussion between communities there are a couple of people that are actually in the overlap I'm one of them um I mean couple that are actually here all right so uh they want to take a normal dependency so the ebpf foundation is an open source organization but it could publish You Know PBS PDFs or whatever of specs right um some small seos publish things themselves and then take it to ISO to say give me an ISO number um that's very popular among the number of small sdos we could go independent stream RFC and we could do ietf RFC which some people have suggested and that's kind of the purpose the side meeting is to say does d make any sense or is D not appropriate for given the constraints here okay so if you have opinions on where this might be possible to go okay please come to the side meeting even if you think that IDF is not the right place that's the purpose of why it's not a buff okay it's a side being to say what is the right sdo okay and so if you're expecting to see lots of technical discussion that's probably not going to be their side meeting if you want to have uh here ietf is a good place to do it ietf is the wrong place to do it please come to the side meeting Thursday six to seven okay we do have a small room but it's virtual as well so you can come in on Zoom if the meeting if the room happens to be very full so we have the right now is the 12 person side meeting room and not the 40 person"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "side meeting room so we'll see all right happy to answer any questions uh are there any questions where people you can of course attend a side meeting but um yeah so I think Dave um I do like the D thing but I think we need to check with somebody who who owns this I don't know EB pay Foundation or somebody if they're willing to see Change Control right if it goes through an ITF RFC that's the only thing that came to my head that exactly that is exactly one of the discussions and so we had a uh pre-meeting with the area directors myself and two of the folks from the evpf community I mean people that actually have the um things and that was actually one of the topics um and so the the uh change control issue is less of the that is an issue but not a big issue the bigger issue is what is how fast can ebpf evolve and is ietf process able to accommodate that and so those are the types of questions that they actually have much more than say um you know is exceeding change control because the the risk is of course uh the ietf might do something that I've purchased from what the implementers do and I said well actually the IHF coacher is that iitf tends to do what the implementers do right if you don't actually have the implementations ATF will say we don't even want it here if we can't get enough people from the community right so the risk of that is I think low um but um I'm personally not sure that ietf is the right place but I'm willing to moderate it and give a fair shake so okay okay thank you very much any other question we have a question on the on the chat is the evpf site meeting on the ietf agenda page sorry oh okay it is on the side meetings page the itf1 if you do a search for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "iotf 115 side meetings uh you'll find it there tomorrow uh mezzanine 12 uh 6 p.m and if it would help I can send a mail to the interior list here and by the way I give exactly the same presentation in the art area meeting too since evpf is not just for networking okay I presented an art area because there may be people from that community so anyway I can send a message to both lists as a reminder so thanks all right um so they say thank you and so thanks everyone uh with this uh it's the end of the meeting so I guess uh we'll give you back a few more minutes uh to relax and take some coffee thanks everyone for attending thank you foreign basically I want to network foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:06",
    "text": "whole family wasn't shocked period foreign thank you so much yeah it's uh your brother is a doctor right so it's called Uh so liquid"
  }
]
