[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "thank you um thank you and then I don't have slides oh because he sent them to me foreign [Music] thank you okay so that's fixed did you see them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:13",
    "text": "foreign [Music] I could see that I am visible in the room Richard I assume I am audible as well uh good morning Richard we're just getting the com set up here so stand by foreign okay so I need to close out of this yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "so it didn't pop up after a first probably right here though so you could use share slides ah so then I can yeah so if you display from there now that you uploaded it you jack being shared you're ready to rock and roll great all right sorry for a couple minute delay there good morning welcome to SEC dispatch if you had intended to be in a different room you can go find that now and we'll get rolling um let's see if I can advance the slides I'm not seeing them on my screen okay now I do great so here's the note well please take note of the note well and Richard Barnes is remote as my co-chair he'll be helping with a few a few very important functions like helping to keep this on track in the the summary outcomes and anything else I miss so let's see meeting tips in person participation so from the working group chairs yesterday there's an emphasis on make sure you're wearing your mask in the room if you're up at that mic you also wear a mask the only time you don't need to wear a mask if it is if you are the presenter um please use the meat Echo to join them IQ even if you're in the room so that we can keep things fair in between remote"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "and local participants and let's see code of conduct make sure you uh respect your colleagues and um move on I hope people know this by now so now the SEC dispatch process SEC dispatch is here to recommend next step for work as an aide to the area directors in terms of how documents get Shepherd shepherded on um you know they have several possible outcomes and this meeting is to help steer those outcomes um by each of you reviewing the documents and providing feedback listening to the presentations and helping to determine the possible Direction so it could be that we direct it to an existing working group if that's possible that's ideal propose a new focused working group if it's a small body of work and there there could be a recommendation for a mailing list or a buff A.D sponsorship if it's an individual draft and doesn't have the need for a larger format it might be that the draft requires additional discussion and so that's a possibility and there could be a mailing list just for that or continuing on the SEC dispatch list and then also that the ietf may not work on some something as the outcome all right great so we will go through each of the three items submitted today each have 15 minutes including discussion so 10 minutes to present five minutes for discussion and with that we can begin with the terminology for post Quantum hybrids and I'll get those slides up Richard did I miss anything are we good I have one last thing for our uh chair"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "session here which is that we're having a bit of change in leadership um so Mohit has um resigned his chair um to uh take advantage of some other opportunities um I just wanted to take a minute here to thank Rohit for his service here Round of Applause for Mohit and thanks for his his work um as our as our second dispatch coach here so thanks to God yes thank you thank you Richard yeah all right great so we have flow hi everyone um I'm Floyd Driscoll and I'm here to propose this draft on terminology post Quantum traditional hybrid schemes um so next slide please um so the background to this is as I suspect most people in this room know um given the development of a sufficiently large quantum computer a lot of the algorithms well the algorithms that we use for asymmetric cryptography at the moment um will be vulnerable to the quantum computer um now it's kind of it's important to mention that we don't actually know that such a computer is ever going to exist but we have to act as if it will um and there were quite a number of presentations yesterday about the kind of the transition of algorithms the algorithms that missed are going standardize um but this presentation is more about the transition so the development of ITF protocols or the modification of ITF protocols um to permit the use of post Quantum asymmetric algorithms so during the algorithm transition period there might be a desire or there is a desire for protocols which use both post Quantum and traditional algorithms so so-called hybrids um although so unsurprisingly there's a terminology draft so that's under"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "um there's already a lot of ongoing work to standardize these constructions um but well both ongoing and completed work in lamps in ipsec in TLS um and drafts on terminologies have been drafts on terminology have been suggested a few times um but specifically at the lamps interim in April it was discussed so next slide please cool so why do we need to talk about terminology there's actually quite a few reasons for this um and I've tried to separate into some bullet points but I suspect people can come up with more so the first is we're using a lot of different words in different places so you see the word hybrid you see dual multi-key multi-algorithm composite non-composite sometimes we're using these as synonyms and sometimes we're using them to mean subtly different things like one will be a subset of another and it actually varies from draft to draft how these words are being used so it would be really useful if we could decide on a set of words and then use them consistently that's both nice it makes it easier to read drafts but it's also security critical because it allows us to discuss um so we're not not described discuss things across purposes so that makes analysis easier it makes comparison easier before I go on I forgot to check if we have minute takers so can we get a volunteer I know we have Richard noting the outcomes but uh more detailed minutes would be nice I believe Carson born on his mom's here oh great thank you um Olsen um so secondly there's multiple types of hybrid constructions um so the the big difference that's been discussed in lamps quite a lot is the difference between composite and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "non-composite constructions it would be really useful to have a reference for what we mean by this um and there's probably other things I haven't thought of there thirdly um if we're talking about functionality oh sorry um different hybrid schemes aim to achieve different properties some of these have kind of I guess come equivalent elsewhere in cryptography so things like backwards compatibility crypto agility but others don't so hybrid confidentiality hybrid authentication I'm not actually 100 sure what we mean by hybrid authentication so probably good to discuss it um again like with sort of the earlier point it would be good to have a reference for these it makes analysis easier it makes comparison easier um and thirdly the word hybrid is you already used in cryptography to mean a combination of symmetric and asymmetric um algorithms um so for an EG and hpke doesn't matter that we're overloading the word hybrid some people think it does some people think it doesn't it comes up quite a lot it would be good to decide and then move forward in the next slide please uh so the proposal is an informational draft to standardize a glossary for post Quantum traditional hybrids everything's up to for discussion so that's the phrasing I'm using at the minute but that can change uh the aim is to ensure consistency across different protocols different standards and hopefully different organizations um next slide please why we need this is I suppose basically what I discussed two slides ago um it's to make it clear what security properties a particular hybrid construction claims and then to be able to assess if it's achieving those security properties it's to enable easier comparisons and solutions that's both within working groups but also across working groups because it would be really useful to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "able to pull our knowledge and to transfer solutions that work from one setting to another where that's appropriate and then finally it's to settle language discussions and kind of pull all the language conversations to this draft and allow the kind of construction and the writing of new protocols to happen there without discussing how much we like the word hybrid next slide please um so I suppose I'm very happy to answer questions about the reasons for the draft um but hopefully there's people who agree that this is valuable um and would like to work on it um so I brought to set dispatch because I wasn't really sure where it belonged um I think on the list there's been discussion of the idea of some sort of new group for post Quantum migration if such a group existed this would fit really well there but it relies on the group existing otherwise cfrg might make sense this is really more about the protocols and the kind of the engineering part than the algorithms so I don't know how that fits lots of work like this has happened in lamps but again it's not just about certificates um or maybe I don't really know how ad sponsorship works but maybe it fits there but I'll leave that to this room to decide um and that's basically everything I had to say um if this is dispatched really really Keen to work with people on it discuss it with people make any changes that kind of the ITF wants this is essentially useless if it's just me writing down a list of words um but if we can kind of all agree then I think it could help us move forwards um that next slide has a link to the draft on it whatever slide people want up is good cool so yeah any questions or discussion great so Paul Hoffman is first up in the queue Paul Hoffman um I'm concerned about a single draft that is uh doing the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "terminology both for key exchange and for signatures um I think it's it would be nice if we could pull them all together I think that that's going to be very challenging for you and we need to have hybrids for both but I think trying to do them all at once and as you've seen with hpke and such I think you're going to have a terminology mismatch um there so I'm just suggesting to make your life easier do key exchange first wait on the signatures foreign yeah that's a that's a very reasonable Point um at the moment there's yeah signatures are more difficult than key exchange um yeah that's a reasonable Point all right yeah um preliminary question do you know how much the research Community is converging on terminology here um I think in the research community there's so I've not read something which kind of defined this is how it's going to work everywhere Jenna for example NIS just Define it in their FAQs how they're going to use hybrids um terminology I think there are two differences between the ITF and the research Community one is this is the only place I've heard there be concerns about the use of the word hybrid at all um so elsewhere people just sort of use it and assume that it's going to be understood what it means in context and the second is that there is language here which is specific to kind of IDF protocol development so in the protocol space rather than the algorithm space I mean I guess so where I was going with that is I prefer not to see us develop a duplicate terminology to what the academic Community is using that seems like very confusing um so the sense of which we can hoist theirs the better um if we can't then that's unfortunate I suppose um that suggests to me um to going through these examples um I think it is much is a bad choice um because if the intention is that um people we're going to ask everybody uses"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "internology then these projects just doesn't get the kind of review quite across you know cutting review and agreement that we want um I think that was kind of frankly I understand how the glossary happened but like I think it's kind of an anti-pattern um um I think so on my sense given sort of my bias towards agreeing with the academic Community but it is in cr4g which is our best relationship with them um um I don't think um you know I guess if we had a new PQ group that might be okay but we don't um out of things again doesn't get the kind of cross-cutting review that you'd need for that so I think I always say either a new group or cfrg um and I'm sure you'll you'll um I do I do generally approve of creating one form one attractive nuisance to gather all the discussions about terminology and it's a good choice foreign just said I've worked in some groups in ISO that were doing terminology documents and uh they can take years they we we've had two-hour conference calls on uh what the meaning of the term node and in the two hours we did not come to consensus on what the definition was so it's a mess and it's definitely not an ad sponsorship thing um I think I agree with Ecker that a new working group would probably be good partly because I think that after you do this you may find you want to do other terminology stuff for the security area and then you'll have a working group ready to go there okay Richard Barnes questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:11",
    "text": "all right so we'll go back to Richard maybe Sophia yes sorry uh Sophia Philly from Brave uh please uh thank you very much for doing this it's really it's really great um the second thing um maybe addressing a little bit about the research community that I'm from uh there's not much enough unification actually of terminology it there is some for the key exchange part but mostly because of the standards from nist and also from the federal documents uh from this and maybe just addressed and also to kind of um support of what Paul was saying indeed it will be really valuable to have two different documents one for the key exchange processes and one for the authentication as last signature process because indeed it's a little bit more complicated the terminology or those two terminologies are dependent on whatever value they are giving so that would be great to have it specifically too um if you want a little bit of a unified terminology for the hybrid signatures what this recommends is to use dual but we can take that indeed for the list and I support this indeed is far more from the research area of the iitm maybe cfrg but I would like also that maybe uh post Quantum A specific group might be created and thank you very much thank you Daniel uh Daniel Khan Gilmore ACLU uh so thanks for bringing this work uh I want to Second pretty much what other people seem to be saying which is that a new group is probably the best bet cfrg is really uh getting congested right now and I'm I mean I guess the cfrg chairs could speak to this but I wouldn't want to load more on them especially something that might be contentious about terminology and I I want to Second the idea that you need different drafts for signatures and encryption not just because of the technological difference but because the actual use cases are quite different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "um so separating them up means that if one of them turns out to be easier to solve than the other you're not blocking thanks and tkg while you're there um so folks think uh a new working group would be handy um I I think one of the questions here is uh as the speaker raises whether there's other uh post Quantum migration issues that would go in this working group or whether you think a terminology draft would be a sufficient Charter to get a new working group spun up I think it would be a sufficient Charter but you know with the experience with curdle I I could imagine something curdle-ish happening once the terminology is pretty clear like how do we how do we work this into different spaces uh across iitf foreign Baker yeah I think another group is uh probably best simply because the way that I would expect that uh a lot of this work is going to go is people who are building stuff are going to come along and say what do I call it you know what terminology do I use and yes cfrg does algorithm stuff but algorithms and pro and cryptographic Protocols are not the same thing as wire protocols cryptographic wire Protocols are not cryptographic protocols they're slightly different and when you're trying to discuss things you know that's going to be the point where we need uh to understand the terminology all right thank you so do the ads want to add anything there's quite a bit of discussion it seems like some sort of group is being recommended cfrg has been tossed out there the chair said yes in the chat other people are saying it's not the right place uh so let me do take my ad prerogative uh before I talk about ad kind of wrap up so the first I like the uh there's a lot of energy around kind of post Quantum I personally uh Edie hat off would love for us to be able to talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "about it in a consistent way so the appeal of having a terminology graphic kind of is exciting for me all right break uh Ed ad hat on uh I think we need to talk we'll talk with cfrg and I think we need to have a community conversation about what would be the energy around this other post Quantum working group we've had a few kind of proposals the Gap has been we want more work in it the new piece that I'm hearing here is maybe just talking about like terminology is a sufficient start to that we would need to test that more broadly broadly kind of in the community so I think the dispatch is I think we need to talk a little bit more about where to land this but we are committed to finding a place to land this thank you uh Roman if I could just uh an additional level of detail there it sounds like uh what we've gotten out of discussion here is that the The Landing place yeah we're gonna have a discussion about where this should land but it seems like the landing place is either somewhere close to cfrg and cfrg or in a in a new dedicated group here does that sound like what you're hearing yeah I think that's exactly right and I think there's some feedback to unpack around splitting this focusing this and the rest of it but I I would uh what I hear is since it was spread all over the place about how you should do that and you've got conflicting advice wherever it lands would be the place to adjudicate that thanks very much everybody all right thank you so we'll have our next speaker to get the slides looks like we have uh Stefan yes hello I'm on the remote second billions really yeah so hello everyone I'm Stephanie and I am president in the draft celebrated till that's authentication next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "yeah so that is and tell us this uh notification based on mutual feelings it provides a seclusion which cannot be broken between client and server to not entirely rely on on web pki we locked the PS authentication keys by pinning information about the entities in the Federation are published in the Federation metadata document this is assigned Json which claims describing the entities and points to enable self-signed certificate it's possible to publish trust Anchorage issues for this in the metadata the metadata is also used for service Discovery based on claims such as organization and tags organizations are vet by the Federation when they apply for membership by trusting the Federation and the metadata members trust the authenticity of other members next slide please background for this is I work for the switch in the foundation that is an independent Foundation that works for the positive development of the internet we are responsible for the CC top level domain.sn.nu the profit from from selling domains finances among other things running federations for the school sector and health sector in Sweden in the Federation for the school sector there was a great need to be able to translate the secure using Open Standards that was where the idea of fed TLS was born one stakeholder is the Swedish national Agency for Education which will use fed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "Telus for user life cycle management for the digital National tests today there is a steady increase if remember both schools and service providers they understand our delivering identity and access Management Solutions for federations has also started to implement the TLs uh I think we would probably see a more rapid acceptance if the specification was stable today as far as I know there are three open source implementations and the first one is a client and the other two are servers next slide please so how does all this works and um a client and server exchanges submitted data with the Federation and decline pins the service public key pins then the client establishes a connection with the server using the base UE of the server from the Federation metadata and the proxy terminates the TLs session either by populating lists of trusted Cas using published issues or configure optional untrusted tiller's client certificate authentication of the call option on OCA the proxim forwards the client certificate to a server application the the application converts the public key to pin and validates the pin against the published pins if it's valid the connection is accepted otherwise terminated um for example the local military that can be stored in a redis the proxy cambian and genetics Apache F5 or h a proxy server and the client can be Linker libker can do pinning out of the box so next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "can I ask a clarifying question yes of course why is the proxy verifying the client's trust chain given that the servers are going to verify the pin anyway yes that's only if you can't use options here if the software isn't capable of doing that so that's you have to bypass a bump on the road so you don't need to do that okay so you mean the proxy can not verify it it doesn't have to verify okay looks like this so uh more questions and then dispatching this any questions related to the dispatch process uh oh Ben was there and removed himself is there interest no interests okay so Eric for school yeah I'm just trying to like I'm not hearing like a lot of room interest in this and it doesn't sound to me like there's a lot of like other people doing this so as I understand this is like for the receptive of TLS this is a code Point registration um so I guess like you can do a co-point registration with no RFC at all um so I guess like um you know I guess I turned this back on you is like why don't you publish take the ID and do a couple magician and we'll all be happy will that satisfy you Stephen Farrell I assume yeah yeah I guess I kind of give you a record um also I don't I admit not having not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "having read the draft I guess but uh I don't have enough information to recommend a dispatch outcome based on today hi um just a quick question on it uh or do the devices in the machine to machine sides of this need to parse this metadata yes this is the reason you chose so is there a reason you chose Json uh no it's more modern than XML if you care about constrained nodes I would recommend choosing something that's more appropriate for constrained nodes could you please give an example the typical choice these days would be seaboard okay all right Mike unsworth so Carrie Mike ellensworth carrying over a question from the mailing list um clearly there's a need for this clearly the education institutes you're working for you know this solves a very real practical problem yes it wasn't clear from the mailing list that there's enough sort of different companies all trying to implement that you really need a standard if you have two or three people can you just solve it do you need ietf to standardize it yeah but this is I mean we're running federations for the health sector as well to to get them to raise funds for something like this you would need a standardized specification I guess okay so I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "I think that wraps up the queue um it sounds to me that more work is needed uh and it might be possible to accomplish this without A dispatch option so Stefan if you want to do an update or work on the list and do the ads have any comments um have you received guidance that helps you just in terms of you know you do have options to go forward without an RNC we will work on with documented title clarify things and and see where it goes so okay and if there's some compelling reason for publication then it can be Revisited yes okay okay it is good so uh don Eastlake is our last presenter fnv hash function hi I'm Donald Eastlake with future weight Technologies and I've had this draft around for a while about the fnv hash function it's named after the first three of the co-authors listed there who invented it uh next slide please so it's uh very simple it's widely used it's a non-cryptographic hash function so it's commonly used for things like calculating something which you use to get an index into a hash table or something like that provides good dispersion even with short inputs that have only a few bits of difference stuff like that and the purpose of the document is to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "provide a stable permanent fnv reference document hopefully the form of an RFC and it also provides reference code in C it's not to provide lists of lots of different hash functions or to select the best one there's a complicated quite different Criterion that can be used for selecting the best hash function next slide please so what you do to do fnv is you initialize the hash which is a fixed length power of two normally to a basis value there's a defaults given in the draft well you can use other values and then you take the data and you would go through successfully taking each octet of data xored into the bottom of the hash and multiply by the magic fnv Prime that's appropriate for the length of the hash that's currently defined for for the 32 to a 1024 bits not really defined for shorter because that's not very high quality and not defined for larger because it's uh unclear if that would really be useful and the Criterion for picking the prime gets more complicated and this and that next slide please so uh this is how the prime is selected uh I don't actually understand why this is good a good way to pick the prime because I'm not the person who invented this and haven't done the uh the analysis that the the authors have done uh it is the case as mentioned at the bottom here that the result is the fnv prime will have only six or seven one bits in it so for certain types of implementations it may be more efficient to do uh some form of Shifting and adding rather than the general multi-precision multiplication uh next slide is a couple of examples so the fnv Prime in HEX for 32 and 64-bit cases in all cases the FMV Prime has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "four or five bits being one in the bottom eight and has the ninth bit on and has one other bit on higher up in the prime uh if you want some other power of two bit or other uh length you can just do xor folding where you xor some of the top of the next larger fnv result into the bottom bits to get a different length and of course for most hash table uses you just have a probably a prime length hash table and you divide by that and use the remainder and that sort of usual stuff next slide please so uh it's used lots of places for example it's currently used in IEEE standard 802.1 qbp 2014 and probably because of the lack of a permanent reference document there that says use fnv and then gives the explicit instructions how to do it in the actual computational instructions uh there have been have been two standards track rfcs that used fnv one of them has since been obsoleted uh there's a sort of dense line there listing a zillion cases which are all kinds of things where basically it's used to calculate indexes into hash tables uh there is no further there's two URLs one is to a paper I believe Brian Carpenter is one of the co-authors which suggests using it to calculate IPv6 FL flow identifiers and it's currently uh suggested in a document in the BFD working group so there's actually a great website for it it's listed at the bottom there the website has some code including uh even x86 assembler code for it and things but uh uh there's no you know published document as such"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "next slide so I would suggest uh I think the document is in reasonable shape that ad sponsor would be a reasonable way to go and one other piece of information is that uh Paul Hoffman who is in the room uh would be available to be document Shepard thank you um to shorten this Roman or Paul do you wanna I mean uh Paul speaking um so I don't mind 80 sponsoring it if we don't find another home if like I would prefer if it would see more View and and find a home but if not then I'm willing to sponsor it okay thank you I with a hat off that makes sense to me the 80 sponsorship so um I actually sent a list but I think we didn't close in it so I understand it there's no changes proposed to this document to this specific sorry algorithm anyway namely we're simply taking a fixed algorithm we are writing it down correct yes okay so like that seems like a very like a little different from our usual thing where like this is not actually yeah the ITF is not like endorsing this and it's not like reviewing it and we're not changing it we're simply writing it down so like whatever's most expeditious to get us like if we could just like pretend for a minute internet address for archival we could just stop this entire conversation um um didn't you say that one didn't you say it was a document already that already had this written down in it which document I thought you said one of the one of the the IEEE standard uh has uh the computational instructions for one specific length I believe the 32-bit the smallest size of FMV uh function uh but you know it's in the middle of this gnarly sure okay 100 page document where it just says you do FMV hash namely take you know initialize this value to this number and Matt you know do this Loop and multiply so uh sure so why should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "this go in the ITF stream at all why not go in the ISE stream independent stream give okay given that we given again this is not an IHF Checker work the answer that so Paul Hoffman um the fact that this is already used in a standards track document would make it inappropriate for the ISC that is the ISE is saying here's an algorithm that is already in use in a standards track document it seems just as easy to get 80 sponsored and such and it's actually widely used this is DNS cookies um it's widely used the implementers were able to figure out by reading Don's draft um it should just be something that's an RFC so really the question is how do we instantiate this as an RFC yes my point is about consensus which is that ITF documents must have consensus and I'm not sure what the consensus we're having on is here other than this is a thing I would say that the consensus was that this document correctly documents and describes the function including in the security considerations uh exactly why uh it would probably not be considered cryptographic the security considerations explains why that's the case yeah I I was about to say security considerations is this is going to need serious oh sorry philhan Baker yeah yeah uh serious security consideration saying when to use it and when not to use it and there are some good applications within security protocols for example if you're going to use a bloom filter a while back we showed using uh myself and Rob stradling commode I should using Bloom filters as a way of speeding up for crls you don't want to use a cryptographic cache for that it's too slow and if you're going to be throwing it into a bloom filter collisions don't matter anyway and so uh it's very important the other thing is I do have an IPR thing I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "should probably mention back in the day that there was a guy who was who was claiming to own the use of a cryptographic cache for nothing cryptographic purposes yes okay exactly the fact that you need one is I should mention that the authors uh have tried as hard as they can to make sure there is no IPR or patent restrictions on this they uh invented it and published it and and didn't apply anywhere and nobody else has ever said anything about the any of these uses so I'm pretty sure there's no rpr problems okay so I'm next in queue no hat um and then I have Ted Hardy after that so you might want to add yourself to the queue so I see no reason to not publish this through the ad stream this is a typical kind of document that gets published there and then can go in as a down rough as needed for references for other documents um so I see no problem in the 80 sponsorship right just to be clear of course is just draft targets informational right and okay so next in cue is Ted Hardy uh thanks I just wanted to ask a clarifying question which I believe Paul might know the answer to I I took from what he was saying that the ISC had rejected this document on the basis of the fact uh that uh there were standards track documents which were referred to it which uh seemed quite odd to me and I I wanted to confirm my understanding no I wasn't saying that at all what I was saying was because there is already a standards track document it would be appropriate if the algorithm that it was referring to is also on standards track this could go through the ISE but there's no reason to okay I'm I'm saying that given that this is going for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "informational anyway it's not the product of the ITF and there's no request to the ITF to do anything like substantive review I think the ISE is exactly the right place for this thanks [Music] yeah thanks uh so we already have a non-cryptographic hash function it's md5 and there's already an RFC for it and there's there's some optimized assembly for there's probably even hardware for it that exists in the wild so is there is there a reason as I said at the beginning one thing I'd really like to avoid is rat holding on comparing hash functions and I could say why I think there are applications for which this is better than the hash function you just mentioned which I won't mention the name of but I don't want to mention and start mentioning names of hash functions and getting rat hold all right thank you so I guess I'm hearing that um it's probably 80 sponsorship is the best route since nobody else would want to pick it up so well I it seems to me like there was a blend of comments here between maybe sponsorship and on the one hand and maybe the itself taking new action and um an apology is um are you inclined given given the feedback it may not make sense as an ETF document are you still inclined to any sponsors yeah yeah I think process wise what uh the Finesse is talking with Paul is we're going to pick it up as ad sponsorship and then we're going to continue to have this conversation that we're having if we can find kind of consensus to have it on the stream and we'll hammer out there all right thank you stop recapping some of the feedback"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "um Richard just got cut off I think he was going to do the summary of all three and should be back um yeah just recap our uh this year we had three items on the agenda here uh for the Post Quantum hybrid terminology work uh the outcome we came to was to either go to the FRG or during the work here from the security area uh the 80s have the action to lead that discussion uh to the conclusion and please are going to do an agenda bash and sag on our next session on the Federated TLS work I think there's no action off the ITF here um as Ecker pointed out the authors can get code points to kill us without having an rfcs through many services for that path first and as we just discussed on and we the 80s are uh planning to take us forward is 80 sponsored and um we'll uh get that focused on kind of what what areas of review are desired from the ITF community so that's what I have in my notes um I think that's the end of the dispatch session is that right uh there is an open mic so first thank you everyone for your assistance in helping the ads with shepherding these documents and just and helping them with their decisions on where they go uh Open Mic time any SEC dispatch business we had one person in the cube that they appear to have gone off the line oh physical mind I'm sorry Stephen I didn't join the queue but somebody else is here I hope it's okay uh just I I think this sector thing is not working as well as hoped in some respects just if you take today personally I I'm not sure the summary is reflected how I heard the discussion maybe I'm wrong that's fine and I think on the for a and c and for B"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "I think that should have been a discussion on the TFS list and not brought to a dispatch process at all because I think we're just wasting time by doing such things so I'd ask that we think again about the possibility that somebody suggests something to TLS for example and when they get a no or a negative or no response it ends up in dispatch that doesn't seem useful okay thank you noted Daniel Khan Gilmore I also failed to get in the queue apologies um so I actually uh I feel like I didn't use SEC dispatch well because I didn't mention to SEC dispatch that I have this dangerous labels draft but I would have actually been useful to do here so part of the fact that it's not useful I think maybe is people aren't bringing stuff here and I'm guilty of that um if you haven't seen my dangerous labels draft it basically says here's a list of DNS labels that you might be surprised if you let people register them within your Zone because they have other consequences and here's a list of other of uh email address local parts that you also might be upset by because they might have security consequences uh if you happen to have registered so I have no idea where that lands um the the some examples are things like mta-sts if you let somebody register that within your domain you have some surprising security properties the email local Parts the classic SSL admin um uh things like that um so I'm trying to collect like this document as basically a Wall of Shame and to remind people that if they uh specify something that does something like this they get to go on the Wall of Shame it's not supposed to endorse this practice and it's trying to divert people towards things like dot well-known and underscore prefix DNS labels um I have no idea where this would live in the ITF thank you all right and uh dkg that that seems like it could be uh if you could bring that up on the list seems like it could be a good uh use case for seeing if we can do some dispatching between meetings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "I'll do that thanks Richard thank you so we still have still have a start on the app okay so we will hand over now unless there's any questions we'll end SEC dispatch and the 80s will begin the SAG session oh yes I'm gonna trust you guys sorry nope gotten used to it it is it should be at the bottom and we'll just push over them go down all right hello everyone Thanks for uh thanks for your patience here as we do the administrative pivot uh we are splitting the SEC dispatch into what we just completed was the dispatch process and we're just going to run into the security advisor area Advisory Group kind of sag my name is Roman delu I'm one of the seconds and I'm here with my co-coad hi I'm Paul Vargas um I'm fairly new to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "this so um please feel free to reach out to me if I can reach out to you but I'll also try to reach out to the people I haven't managed to reach out to me all right administratively uh we've talked about the note well but we're rebroadcasting here everything we said for SEC dispatch directly applies here and always uh reiterating year that we want to live the Dakota conduct and these are the basic tenants and principles of what we expect for all iitf participants uh just kind of visual meeting tips everything we did before for SEC dispatch let's continue doing that for for this meeting agenda wise as we put on the list uh we were hoping to have a little bit more uh unfortunately some of the the more media items kind of fell through so what we primarily have prepared is the scanning agenda the other thing we're going to bash the agenda with is we heard some interest in a new direction that we hadn't previously heard around a post Quantum kind of working group so we're going to talk about that after the ad report uh we're going to pause here to say would anyone like to bash the agenda checking the queue not seeing anyone all right so we are gonna move along so Paul um so so one thing that I uh I notice is that our pool of working group chairs is fairly low and some people might not realize that we are looking for for both experience and inexperience for group chairs just to sort of know that we have people that we can reach out to once you have like you know a chair resigning or a new worker group forming so um please don't think that you need to be like a 10 year old iitfer before you can uh be considered for a worker group chair so if there's something you might be interested in please reach out to us or we at least know that you know we have a few names of people that that we could call upon uh once an opening comes up so please do that uh second uh even better if you're if you're a newcomer and you really want to learn more about the process within ITF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "becoming a document Shepard is actually a really great way of learning more about the process um and in addition you will help us because unfortunately because of the shortage of shepherds we have who usually or too often have chairs doing that work themselves or document offers doing most of that work instead of having you know an objective uh external person doing this work so um if you want to read up on what a Shepherd is if you want to talk to one of us about about what it involves please yeah please let us know um it's a it's a really great way for uh for you to to get to know the ITF a little bit better and then uh number three um we do have a lot of erratas uh outstanding um especially the erratas in the reported state that needs handling like so so um the work group needs to find out whether this Errata is is correct or not um there's a lot of work on on that we have a pretty big backlog and uh one of my goals as a new Fresh ad with too much energy is that I'm going to try and push the working groups into doing a little bit more focused Errata handling so you'll see on the slides for the working groups that are following that we are listing the amount of erratas that you have unresolved in the hope that you will be ashamed to solve them Richard did you hop in for some commentary here yeah I'm just going to thank the ads for for helping develop talents in our area I think this is a great idea I was going to offer a friendly Amendment for folks who might be experienced chairs um if you happen to be an experienced chair and your co-chair is also an experienced chair um I kind of think you're doing it wrong um so if you're an experienced chair I would suggest talking to the ideas about getting an inexperienced here to work with to help develop this talent pool and build a build up more leadership in our space thanks so Richard doesn't mean you're offering to step down I'm just kidding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "I I have tried we have tried to bring in uh you know folks in this role um I think let's move its vacancies like dispatch we have an opportunity so if you're a newcomer um and would like to uh do things like this type of stuff uh reach out to ads reach out to the the SEC dispatch cheers we'd love to talk to you all right so the next standing item we have here are working group summaries and uh due to Paul's kind of hard work we have a slightly more informative format given that we are very very early in the week historically we do this much later in the week many of the working groups have not yet met as we bring kind of things together if any of the chairs or working group participants want to come up and talk into the mic we'll move at a slightly slower Cadence if you'd like to comment about what's imminent in the work you work so Ace is not planning to meet with someone like to say something about Ace and we can always do go backs so we can keep this moving so Acme is meeting later this week all right coming up to the mic I you have near Couture effectney uh so uh yeah we've got a couple of documents uh just finishing working group last call a whole bunch in various isg processing State and a couple considering adoption perfect thanks cozy dance meeting later this week emu I think we have a Version Control problem in slides so dots emu nap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:05",
    "text": "my two NSF these are readable slides we'll go quickly that if folks uh you want to make some comments here yeah I'm just going to run to the end and if folks want to say something about their SEC working group they can Tee It Up all right we're pausing if any working group chairs want to come up to talk about the workers we're just going to do it that way all right Sean Turner I'm going to shamelessly plug MLS both the protocol draft and the architecture draft have been through working group last call the protocol draft actually went through multiple working group last calls but they're good to go if you remember when we started this it was a little bit like the TLs development we wanted to make sure that we had some buying from the security community and in during the working group last call like we got Karthik and others and like Brita Hale to like put their thumbs up on the draft so that'll be coming your way Paul shortly um basically I just need the architecture draft to get reposted now we didn't get as much review on that draft but that's because it's kind of more flowery so but in any event I think those two are good to go and so we're kind of switching off into like looking at extensions and I suspect version two will be coming on very shortly thanks appreciate it hello Siobhan said co-chair of Ojai um just wanted to say that I think we're almost ready to go with the main protocol draft We'll be asking for last call soon and there's a bunch of new work in the group that we'll be discussing today later today in the meeting so Sam I see you in the Q yeah I'll give a plug for privacy preserving measurement we have a small Core group of people working on the one adopted draft I would love to have more eyes on it and a wider group of people looking at it we also have one new proposal and I won't say new because it was presented at Vienna that might become up for adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "thank you any other working group chairs want to comment on there so uh we wanted to make sure we also raise awareness we have more Buffs than we've had in recent memory in the security area happening this week we had a buff yesterday the the Json web proofs the jwp that unfortunately ran a little bit at a time we have skit coming up this Thursday and we have Sac P that's later later this afternoon so skid is focused on what can the ITF do around certain elements of the supply chain and sap is focused on distributed ledgers and how we can Bridge some of those so we're going to need some sharp eyes to help us figure out what's right on the scope there what we want to do here and we of course need to answer do we have the energy to work on those so we do request that the community kind of come and kind of help us figure out what the way ahead is on two bodies of work and there's this kind of standing practice we have a lot of other security areas things that are related to security happening both in the ITF and the re the irtf plus uh in other places in the community if someone wants to come to the to the mic this is the The Collection that I believe we are roughly tracking but we welcome commentary not only just on these but on others yeah this is Barry Lee but chair of dmarc we're meeting on Thursday and the primary bit of discussion will be um the issue we have now with identifying the correct organizational domain in some cases where we are looking at replacing the use of the public suffix list with instead a tree walk and an additional dmarc tag and that's been quite a lot of controversy on the list so that's that's the main discussion this time uh I don't see tigers up there but um or maybe I do um anyway Tigress is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "credential transfer protocol and has definitely it's in the art but it has obvious security implications so it would be great to get a little bit more people from the security area and that working group to help review and look at document stuff like that contribute thanks for mentioning Tigers uh so for those that have been following along we had the secret life before ietf 13. there was obviously Community feedback that that name was not super so that work turned into tigers that that was just mentioned and there was some back and forth during that which is this a sex thing is this an art thing it's somewhere in between so the way that got negotiated out is it will remain in art but it's going to have a sec ad so please we do need exactly like I said we need to set the second so so coming up and be nice to the contributors they're they are very very new to the iitf community and kind of um well need help and we should be nice then so thank you um by the way I have a co-chair in that um prachi Lane you'll be seeing a lot more of her she's very new but she's probably going to be the one the one most visible on that thank you Valerie I see you in the queue you want to jump in sorry uh hi uh I'm Valerie Smith I'm co-chair of huge working group and I see there is a an error in the chair slides um because uh the report for Utah seemed to be copy pasted with the TLs that is just preceded in the chair slides so uh if I look at the can you please show uh uh I like to bring attention in the drip warp group the drip off draft is in work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "group last call and we do need reviewers of it um it's been just really only internally reviewed and uh our chairs have caught can we have please have reviewers of the draft so we complete the last call within the work group so the auth graph is all about authentication of these messages in an extremely constrained environment of basically payload of 200 bytes got to do it in that so uh we do welcome and request that the largest community look at what we're doing there in that draft um if you need you unfortunately there is a lot of background you need to know why we're doing the way we are but we're available the authors are available for for giving that context so invite reviewers of the drip off draft thank you thanks any other any other comments on working groups or Community activity that would likely be interesting here Dave I I see you you can come to the mic yes I was having problems getting up getting booked it but my name in the queue so if um so I if it's okay I wanted to bring up Sam is Sam is Dave Taylor um in the uh rats working group this week there was a presentation from Carl uh about a format for configuring trust anchors in a trust anchor store right not a protocol but a way to encapsulate a set of trust anchors to configure on a particular machine that can be carried in other protocols rats would make use of this um but it was pointed out to the meeting by me and others that other working groups including suit which I coach here and teep where I author documents both need the same thing and so the question was maybe it shouldn't go into the rats working group because it's more of a general mechanism"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "not sure where it should go um but I told them that maybe this is the sort of thing that should come to SEC dispatch or something in the future so I just wanted to bring that up here because if there's other working groups besides those three that have an opinion then that may affect where it should best go so Roman was there for all this discussion um but I just want to surface it to the rest of SEC so in the jabber that there's some interest in if someone can talk about Mimi oh no I'm not saying I'm going to talk about it Stephen if you were going to talk about maybe oh you're asking so if someone can tell us a little bit more about Mimi I was conflicted and was unable to attend please feel free to come up to them like now or comment on okay I think uh I think that's it for the for the wrap up for in-flight activities so we're gonna roll straight into Paul and I are going to tag team a little bit on the uh on our ad report uh so just to give everyone a bit of a heads up we are holding a couple of documents that are in flight for ad sponsorship uh phenomenal news since the last time we talked we have two new rfcs on security.txt and on the XML SEC identifiers and you can see it's kind of behind us where we are a little a little earlier in the life cycle on the two other Ed sponsored uh minutes these are a few standing pointers but these are repeated questions that that Paul and I get which are what is what are you working on what's in the queue kind of what's hot why have you not looked at my document uh so anyone that wants to kind of understand where we are in status and where your document might be in our review queue please do dereference those that middle block of URLs behind us another piece uh another another pointer we wanted to actively share is that Paul and I and previously been discussed on a lot of common issue common issues so we would see them recurring in a recurring fashion during our Ed review we want to highlight what those are and we we took"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "the time to document it on that first URL so if you are you as you are going into working from class Paul in your document that's a great place to kind of check you know did we think about these particular issues before things would exit exit the working group and in other pointers just to bring you know make sure we have cross visibility on where we stand with things we've had some movement on working groups uh you know starting early in the life cycle this is the most boss we've had in recent every in the SEC area again please do join skit and sat P later in the week and uh we're going to continue the jwp conversation on the Jose list we chartered as we've told us Tigris and last week we closed second problems and we really do have an older set of slides here uh so uh so we've had some some motion on working group changes so I think I saw Mohit come in in the end if my eyes are kind of correct uh maybe not uh is he in the back of the room maybe he's not uh so we want to kind of thank him he is exiting his leadership role in Ebu and SEC dispatch so huge kind of thank you uh we have Peter coming in to help uh to help with emu so thank you for doing kind of that uh prachi and leaf are spearheading tigress and uh in the data tracker we have a new version of those slides and big thanks to Robbie Harwood who was long time co-chair of kind of kitten and uh Ben who is remotely connected vincated is gonna jump in to to be the the other co-chair of of Kit as Paul said from the kind of the beginning we are always looking for those that might be interested in ship roles and working groups or certainly being if that's a little too much being documented Shepherds if you are interested in being working group chair experience not experience signaling that to us is uh you know is always of Interest we do keep a running list as we find Opportunities either to write rotate the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "current leadership team or to make selections for for kind of new working groups I I don't think I need to plug it here but one of the things that we have realized that some of our non-working group mailing lists don't get visibility after the second we create them so we want to make sure we highlight them here the pqc mailing list that is a non-working mailing list to discuss whatever the community would like around post Quantum post Quantum Computing we have created that pleased to use that mailing list if there is not one appropriate to the working group uh would you like to handle lorata I talked already a little bit about the aradas it is really important that we get them get them reduced uh there's some working groups that that have a lot of them um and additionally uh um a somewhat harder one that falls down between the cracks even more is the ones for on documents that have no longer any open working group and nobody is looking at those erratas and so uh so so I didn't even actually count them I'm not even sure if they're counted in in the numbers that are on the current slide because we kind of look at the working group so um if anyone wants to to volunteer uh to spearhead any of these efforts then please let us know otherwise we will continue bugging people about solving around us yeah I mean I think the bottom line to point out is we started highlighting this last time and we are in fact losing ground so while we we closed some Parada we got a whole bunch more and so we have a little more than we had last time we would really ask that those working groups highlighted kind of at the bottom there those are I think the the vast majority of where we have inrata in open work groups if you could please kind of take that up and we will work on on handling and trying to Federate uh support and review of the ones that do not have accurate yeah that brings up rich Saul sock my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "um that brings up a probably is the answer to the lamps one because from what I've seen Russ is really diligent about that so these old P kicks 5280 yeah that's right uh so thank you kind of for finessing that when we made that work group list that's not directly bound to the necessarily the working group it's a little bit about the technology associated with it so some of the ones for lamps are indeed a lot of old Peaks thanks absolutely Paul Hoffman um wearing a very different hat I've actually been reviewing a lot of Errata and updates for not for security stuff one thing I've found is that in fact as I tell people I'm working you know like going through Errata I hear from many software developers of oh my God I wish I had known that this Errata had been reported but not included in this RFC that I implemented implemented wrong and was laughed at by other developers who knew that the Errata had been reported so it's not just I mean I think people think Errata is often grammatical which some of them are but there are some significant things including wrong check sums in in Sample code and such like that that really have an effect on on implementers so the fact that some of the working groups are so far behind actually impedes the implementation of their standards yeah the sparity but following up on that the I believe the RFC editor has agreed to try to handle it any new era that come in that are purely editorial and the RFC editor is supposed to handle those so we're really looking at the new era and well and existing Errata that are technical in nature and uh and there are far too many yeah you're exactly right it's been a big help that the RFC had folks have helped us with that okay so again General call here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "the other thing we we want to make sure that we say a huge kind of thank you for is one of the things that Paul and I have to do is bring forward the various documents to the to the isg for advancement or to do community to review the things coming from the rest of the community and that workflow is directly enabled by the people that you see broadcasted there thank you thank you so much to the security kind of director your reviews are directly impacting quality of the things we publish they're directly making sure that we don't publish things here in the ietf that have security security implications and that will break things on the internet and they are a tremendous help personally to both Paul and I as we continue to do those reviews so thank you to the team kind of back there and also thank you for Teru for facilitating the assignment of those reviews uh it really makes the magic happen okay so uh we have plenty of Open Mic time but before we were going to run into the open mic time we wanted to Pivot back in the agenda bash that we promised uh during kind of SEC dispatch to revisit this idea of what is the threshold for which we'd want to set for a post for Quantum working group whatever that might be uh to level set here because I'm doing this entirely kind of on the Fly since we brought this up at SEC dispatch I believe we had a conversation at ITF 111 where the notion was floated listen post Quantum things are coming we have working groups that that are open and if they are open they will be best positioned to to me kind of the challenges of post Quantum agility that's going to come what we didn't have our head wrapped around is there will likely be all sorts of protocols we want to think about that perhaps don't have active work groups and there's no ready way to do maintenance and so the proposal at the time at 111 was hey why don't we spin up a post Quantum agility working group that would be the home to house these for lack of a better term orphan kind of specifications so we could treat them as a one-off we got all sorts of kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "feedback the feedback roughly was hey uh are you confident that you would have the expertise in this working group to pick up one of those orphaned uh one of those orphan working group and kind of the pros and cons are maybe maybe not uh the it's a bit of a it was a bit of a scalability argument that if we can do it in one place it might reduce pressure friction for the agility the other piece of feedback was well okay in theory we understand the the thinking on this working group but what would be the first bodies of work that you'd want to run through this process and that was a place where we did not we got a little bit of feedback but not a lot of feedback of what protocols were dropping there and then the last set of feedback was can we in fact move forward without algorithm recommendations on what we would drop for uh to do Post Squad and pedophageality and the push was primarily can we do this without miss making some decisions out of kind of round three so coming out of 111 we roughly left that that notion of a working group we have a template for it we can continue having it the interesting development I heard today kind of talking was that there is quite a lot of interest and momentum to continue this conversation and perhaps it might be sufficient that the threshold for having such a forum is actually just being having a place to talk about it and get our heads around what that terminology uh terminology might be and I'm going to start I'm going to kind of stop talking and say kind of discuss do we think that that's a sufficient kind of threshold what are there things we need to be worried about relative to agility right now that we don't have in things like TLS lamps uh ipsec I mean this was sort of the concept behind curdle when we did it before right um I mean I guess I think this may be a little premature um we literally just got the recommendations like what two weeks ago um so maybe we should like try to do some of the protocols that we actually know and like are being heavily maintained and get some of those beaten"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "down a little bit and then um and then and then try to take those learnings and and try to do the ones that are maintained I mean by definition the ones that are maintained are like the ones that are sort of like less um less actively developed um so I think you know anything we do will probably we'll probably have a long camera anyway so I mean I think maybe like I mean maybe let's try to kill ipsec and TLS and um you know so um you know x59 and and one of the you know and then you want to messaging formats um and then we'll see that then we'll have a template between the rest of them um but I think try and do them all at once it's probably not gonna work out super well great thank you and then in terms of scope uh again I think we have two things to talk about uh is both the the maintenance piece and if those folks think that they need a working group to have continued kind of conversations there is kind of some precedent other areas in the ITF to kind of spin something that up or to talk about terminology or frameworky kinds of things so I think everything's on the table sure I think as I said by put for the terminology is cfrg so um so I guess I'm just really creating another group with like kind of like an unbounded Charter um so like I said I think um I think I would like be a little bit downward and say let's see nothing um just for the moment my I have two points here one is um plug for like centralization I think all Protocols are going to have to answer all of the same problems do we hybrid do we Flag Day what about size which are the parameter sets like every group is going to have to Grapple with these let's grapple with them once let's have one group that can say hey why don't you do it TLS day why don't you do what ipsec did like so just centralization of trying to not repeat the same debates over and over and over again everywhere second point I want to make is I'll credit this idea to um Ali Becker and Rebecca gutri that there's going to be protocols that are forgotten that don't have a home so a place to sort of drag up all this stuff that needs to be updated but no one's looking at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "thanks Phil Phil hamburger yeah I don't understand the post Quantum algorithms and I suspect that yes that was going to be my point you know I I suspect most of us that aren't from the point of view of how do we apply them to a protocol existing or past I don't think that we've actually got that knowledge yet I don't think it exists because you know you have the algorithms you have the cryptographic protocols you have the wire protocols you know pki is not the same as public key cryptography it's going to be the same thing for post quantum what I think we probably need is probably something that's kind of like an irtf working group in that we need to do a bit of education and a bit of leveling up of everybody and explaining what's going on we've got to have a bit of people bringing in the thing that they've developed in their basement and showing it off and we've probably got to do that for quite a few years before we're really going to understand this area but the good news is I've also got this degree in nuclear physics you know I did experimental in nucleophysics I can spot a science project when I see one and you know looking at where Google and IBM are today I am not worried about a quantum computer arriving in the next five years yeah I'm not desperately worried that we're going to we have to uh do this on a um an emergency basis there is time to do it right and so maybe something in the irtf uh asking them to spin something up would be the way forward I mean yes they have a post-quantum sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "they have a Quantum Internet working group but that's different this will be post Quantum uh protocols thanks Michael hi Michael Richardson I guess I'm largely agreeing with others um I I don't think we need to run around building a group for orphaned protocols I think that um uh we need to do it we need to we need to do it for the protocols that we know already and um I think that that for those orphan protocols that might be out there I suspect that for many of them the correct answer I I don't know what they are but I suspect the correct answer is uh uh uplift to TLS or something like that and that that's as much work as fixing whatever they had out there okay so I think that that's what one thing thing the other part of it is that um although we have a bunch of certificate post Quantum hybrid whatever that means um uh protocols in in lamps I don't feel very confident that we have any idea really where we're going that way and that is really the um signed data at rest problem which is very different from the ipsecond TLs uh negotiation problem and I and we could actually solve I think we could actually solve those things in either order right we could replace the the diffie-hellmans on the protocols with post Quantum versions and we could replace the certificates with post Quantum certificates uh signatures and we actually could do those in either order I mean it would make don't you don't you don't get any any success until you have both but from a point of view of how do we test deployment and how do we do other things I suspect it really doesn't matter and as I agree with Phil that we probably have a little bit of luxury of time here so I would say actually the critical one in my mind is the the certificate and the data at rest because it's going to be at rest for possibly decades and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "that's the part that makes me anxious more than the other part right browsers will just upgrade every second week and we'll be done right thanks pardon me yes yes yes of course of course but but I mean I I assume I assume that people don't don't always show their encrypted data to everybody but that sign data often gets you know out as a place because you want people to see it right thanks Scott uh Scott Fleur Cisco Systems uh one point uh people have noted that we have plenty a lot of some amount of time to solve this problem I would like to uh to disagree with the idea that it's too early to get started uh we have plenty of time however this is a big task in front of us uh uh at the very least uh you know if we have uh both next uh ietf 115 we might have a working group starting at 116. that's that's eight months right there plus then uh they have a bunch of time working on the various deciding what to do and and actually designing the the updated protocols uh that can two up a significant amount of time uh I would yeah and and then and then as uh Michael mentioned uh deploying the plane is even worse so uh I would recommend considering to starting uh above uh next ITF Ace thanks Paul's next Paul Hoffman um so many people in the room uh might remember Hillary Orman who was very active in the ITF she wrote a academic document towards the end of last year um this is this comment is mostly about with people saying how soon do we need it or not looking at the state of quantum computers when we need to worry about them specifically for cryptography such like that um I then wrote up a document if you want to look it up it's called octo031"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "about post Quantum for the DNS just you know locally for the DNS but we do have both things where we use signatures and you know we run under TLS um I'm simply plugging those now for the people who say I you know like I've been following the news and I think quantum computers will be available when or not um there there is actually and there are plenty of other academics who are writing this up if you want that kind of thing to inform your decision on how quickly to go uh please look at the document or wrote or come talk to me or even better if you you know our academic look at Hillary's document it's very very you know it goes into great detail and such like that my personal belief is that you know especially for the people who aren't following in this competition when we say oh let's just start on the signatures now to me that's an indication you're not following in this competition because within this competition just came out saying is we have a much better idea about about the key exchange than we do about signatures and they pretty much punted signatures down the road uh to do it longer so my feeling is if you want to be doing something now you should be looking at the key exchange all right I want to make sure we also have an open mic we have a number of folks in the queue so I'm going to lock the queue after where we are now so next up uh Sophia your remote yes thank you so just to maybe uh comment on some of the comments that have been post so one of the things uh that was said is about indeed if quantum computers are coming and how urgently is indeed to migrate and it is true that the majority of the research that has been recently presented states that a quantum computer is not going to be coming sometime soon in the sense that it's not going to be available tomorrow but that doesn't mean that traffic is not um the traffic is not targeted meaning that someone could be recording right now the traffic and the menu that are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "powerful quantum computer comes available they will be able to decrypt that path traffic so it's not only about the future traffic but also about any of the past one so the threat is not only about the future but also anything of the past I really like some also some of the comments that were just stated that um this is not only about the cryptography itself but also how it integrates into the different protocols so the challenge that right now in this is is actually posing to us it's not about selecting an algorithm anymore specifically in the key exchange each part because this has already been a Sunday or at least it's a signal that there will be a standardization from these so if we just standardize at the IDF level the same algorithms we will just be repeating the same work that this is doing but the actual challenge is actually how to put in them into the networks and protocols some protocols will be easy um maybe on the case change part some authors might be much more difficult specifically the ones that deals with authentication so actually having a place where we can discuss how to tackle depending on the different protocols might be worth and as one of the people in the queue that I forgot said while this is very important but we should also not not do the work of just repeating what one working group is doing in adult day but actually have maybe a centralized place where we actually discussed so I do like awesome a lot of the idea of maybe having an iitf working group because this might be something that is more related to research but apply research in that it put it touches a lot of the networks and protocols thank you Florence um I think I'm going to basically agree with a lot of what Sophia just said um so yeah I'd like to Second the point or third I think now the point about there being value and having a central location to have these communication conversations so absolutely agree that the details of how Protocols are developed should be happening in TLS in ipsec wherever but at the minute it's all very distinct and so having some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "central place where we can learn from what's happened elsewhere what has and what hasn't worked would be really valuable I think the other kind of centralization angle of this is that there would be value in having a group that both kind of make sense to bring both the cryptographic expertise to and also the protocol expertise to um and this could be that place thanks John hi yeah I'm John Gray from entrust and I'm putting on my customer hat right now because that's an implementer of pki and cryptographic solutions we've been asked about the post Quantum area for many many years we've been prototyping not actually we started with signatures right because that's how pique sorry John can you get a little closer okay is that better okay sorry about that um yeah so as a putting on my customer hat I was saying that um we've been prototyping pqi based Solutions with these post Quantum algorithms and especially signatures so I mean this is a very uh this isn't something that I think can wait any longer I mean it's it's something that comes up actually weekly for us so we've already implemented certificates and have has customers actually wanting to use them so so I don't think it's the time to wait I think now that nist has actually come out with the what the first uh what they're going to standardize I think it's actually making it even more vital that this move forward so I just wanted to make that point thank you Ross so when we were faced with the transition from sha-1 to sha-256 it was me and Steve bellovan up there trying to figure out how to orchestrate that across a whole bunch of groups and the lesson learned there was you're wrong it's going to take way more than that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "okay uh we thought the transition would take five years there are still Corners today that are using child one so uh this is a much bigger more pervasive uh kind of a thing yes we have time but we have to worry about the traffic if that's recorded today and broken when the quantum computer comes along what's the lifespan of your Children's Health Care records let's get started it's going to take a long time thanks Ecker yeah a few points um I mean first I think just like to get clear some like factual underbrush um like the signature stuff isn't ready I think we all know that and so like the best we can do really is like kind of like try to get the key to help with some stuff working in a reasonable way and then hope this stuff improves or people get a better understanding of it but like we saw a presentation TLS yesterday about like the size of signatures and it's just like it's going to be big problems right um so um I I I'm generally like synthetic to this argument that um you know doing something out of traffic protection is important because of the recording recording problem though I'd remind people like you know we've been sending this data for like 20 years with these algorithms so we already have like 20 years this day of being transmitted around so like you know another 10 minutes may not be a deal against the background a lot of people think but like it's still important to do um the um you know so so my argument is not that we should do nothing my argument is that we have a sort of limited amount of bandwidth in this organization and a number of people who know how to work with these algorithms who are which are new and have properties that are somewhat unfortunate in some ways and that it would be good to like before we try to generalize the problem try to actually solve the problem once or twice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "and I think we mostly sold I think TLS actually has gotten fairly far thanks to my my work but like Doug Stabila and people like that um and so like I just like to see us nail a couple of them down and then try to generalize out that'll mean that the things aren't uniform across the system um but like trying to make it uniform will mean that the protocols that really do need it very very badly right now will not get it actually waiting for the uniformity so like I guess if people want to form like a working group to do this like I'm not going to like spend a lot of time working against it but like I don't want to hold up the work in TLS and ipsec and on lamps for that so thanks uh so that drains our cue on this particular topic we appreciate the community you know feedback the recurring thing you know we do here when we've asked this time and we've previously asked in this kind of temperature check there is this big kind of question on when we should act and what's appropriate to act on given the information that we have now so we're gonna have to kind of take this back and kind of think through what that practically means but we very much appreciate again being able to do this temperature track and it came up again in SEC dispatch okay so given where we are at the agenda we're gonna just transition to full-on open mic is there anything someone would like to come talk to us about going once going twice all right we very much appreciate you thank you so much for helping us dispatch all our items in the early session and for this conversation we just had in Sag to raise everyone's awareness we're gonna break early for lunch have a good rest of your ietf week yeah that's right I'll make sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "yeah something with uh so if there's a refresh mechanism but you should check [Music] foreign all together"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "I'm listening foreign thank you"
  }
]
