[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "room please sit so this is the agenda page from data tracker and it\u0027s getting better and better and better so we\u0027ll be actually using it as the starting page for what would be presenting to you so if you\u0027re looking for the presentation these are fat etc will show you as we do it where the links are so you can\u0027t activate to what we are doing here so the the all the material will be showing is on this button here it\u0027s also available on the cool applications that you can download for from your preferred store on the web but this is really a cool place to get it you get all the those two links here will give you all the documents we\u0027ll be talking about today in video forms or the Welcome documents and personal submissions and last but not least here on this button here you will get the link to the ISA pad clicking it so please participate to the ether pad this is where we are taking our minutes this is also a very useful page if you did not get everything that was being said if you want to read it later please just open this window if you think that the minutes we are not taken properly in particular for what you just said please go ahead and modify the text live on the ether pad that\u0027s a very very useful tool for all of us in this room and with this since we are human it\u0027s past the hour oh I see that people are going on the left I would strongly encourage you to try sitting on the right not using my right I\u0027m always right so please pick that one because you\u0027ll see better and then when you come to the mic and we if we asked to raise ions we don\u0027t see people on the other side share with in suffering form from this on on previous meetings okay and with this let us start with the a Shanda bashing and all the nice things that were used today so this is the lt1 working group codeshares Alexander and myself and we\u0027ve got a brand new not well I decide shelf so if you\u0027re not used to the not well if you have not read the previous RFC\u0027s which provide the policies for the ITF this is a nice occasion to go ahead and read them because they are brand new and shining basically what this will be telling you is that if you\u0027re aware of IPR on anything that\u0027s being discussed on in this meeting since this is part of the ITF activity you are supposed to disclose this IPR whether it\u0027s your IP or somebody else IPR and if you do not want to disclose it during this meeting on the right and you can always talk to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "the chairs later or send us an email this is my HF meeting minutes will be taken up fully by many many people using the fine etherpad link that I just showed you the meeting is is propagated on mythical you can join the mythical from this room or from anywhere else and I\u0027m giving again the pointer to the ether pad will be distributing the blue sheets in a few minutes we are used to seeing people come late and I don\u0027t see that today is an exception to the role so we just delay the so we not have multiple ways of blue sheets we next so we are looking for minute takers so do we have volunteers I see Dominique Dalio so that kind of cool do we have somebody for Jabbar or mythical giggle so fine okay so we are just doing great so I just showed you well I\u0027m picking the the meeting material life so I\u0027ll be going back to that page yeah that\u0027s a good place to get it so yes our Chanda we have two pages agenda it\u0027s quite flow but we should be okay so we\u0027ll be Dominique will be presenting us the news from the Agathon so there are incredible stuff which one and we are glad to show that then we\u0027ll talk about the results of the World Cup last call on the other of you document and Steven is there with us to present this then there is two set of slides for one or actually two documents but the set of slides don\u0027t want rematch documents so we\u0027ll be talking about the static data compression document which has a fragmentation chart and that we\u0027ll be presenting to us by Calais and then and on l\u0027homme we\u0027ll be talking about the Sheik compression and that shit compression actually spreads to documents right now the the sheet for ipv6 a UDP and then the coop piece maybe we\u0027ll discuss at some point if we need to reorganize that little bit because the coop document asked us groans Moran\u0027s MA and then Jigga will introduce to us a new work which is extending the Sheikh to ICMP we\u0027ll have a little bit of time for young for Sheikh and no harm will be showing that to us and then we\u0027ll have quite some time to discuss the the reach out ring we we we left the last five ten minutes for news from I Tripoli by Bob Bob if you can hear us so I was at the edge of last week as well there are two interesting pieces that two pieces which are direct direct interest for us there is the IG LP one which basically met every day last week and there is the 15 for K effort which is also an ie I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "Triple E designed t1 technology and so I hope Bob focuses on those but will give us news from the HIV I would strongly encourage and I see that Wonka Alice is with us to to extend this idea of giving us giving us like a short news from the world about things which happening in other body like aged 80 on so if you could think in further meeting to come and present like two three five minutes on what\u0027s what\u0027s has been happening in the last quarter in LTM Aloha one and the IOT any of those a small slots will be would be very good so that we get news from the world so this time study I trip point and with the hotel to the airport because I\u0027ll be sure so this is a short refresher of our Charter and our milestones so we were formed in almost less than a year ago with two main charter items so we have the baseline technology description and overview document and we\u0027ll be talking about this in the beginning of this meeting and then the technology drafts the and then the the drafts that are actually dealing with the compression and fragmentation so in our compact our milestones so we have most of them are we got them on time we are slight delay on the others so the appeal on every document and the compression and fermentation mechanism but we are pretty pretty well on them and right now you\u0027ll see why so we had from the start a very ambitious challenging a very challenging Charter and basically you know we have to deliver everything in in less than a year we\u0027re actually pretty happy with the with the development of and with our advancement so we had a design team that met and that really accelerated the things and before the last ITF everything most most of the stuff were clear out and since then all the work has been happening on the mailing list and and it\u0027s very very open so here is the the deadlines that that that we had initially so with the overview document ready by April then the shake for IP UDP by May and co-op by June so I would like to have a special thanks to the to the whole - to the up to the group and to everyone that has participated because we had a very very very active work during the past three months so we had six interim meetings and I would really like to thank everyone so marvelous marvelous work so we had actually we could advance really really rapidly there are a lot of a lot of things that were done so the LP on overview document we started working with last call in in June and since then there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:05",
    "text": "were a couple of minor commands we were they have been addressed and we will see we\u0027ll have the presentation from from Steven that will give you that will give us the results of this and we will be closing the last call reversing the shake IP UDP document is a classic really really well and in the very very near future we\u0027ll go for with we think that we will go for last call working with last call and I hope to have more news from from Carla\u0027s and from this point so that\u0027s where we are with with our Charter and with our action points and I\u0027d like to give you just one minute overview of a report of an a meeting that happened yesterday that\u0027s called the yang of things and this meeting actually is the place where the constrained world meets the management world so it was we had it was a side meeting the room was full a lot of interesting discussions and the takeaway for this is actually that for the next IDF will have working implementation and will have all that is necessary for the car my protocol and as you know the common protocol is the one that we\u0027ll be using that we\u0027ll be using for that maybe we may be using for configuring the compression contexts so that\u0027s the thing that will come right now we have the we are we have the compression mechanism but we need a way to go to configure the contexts so it is a work to look for and I think it will be that we are right on time and we have all that is necessary so with this Pascal we can shoot is that so with this we\u0027ll move to the first presentation for this meeting and our first presentation is the LP one overview so let\u0027s see where we are with the LP 1 overview so we have done we have completed let\u0027s go on July 4 well done for this working group not for the 80s but we\u0027ve we\u0027ve complete completed the working group last call on the 4th of July so document is now visually independent and alexander panov here will be the shepherd and we\u0027ll will we are now fixing the the commander will commence and the document for I know is pretty much ready - the typos are - but we are there so we will do the the shepherd right up and ship this document real soon now that\u0027s where we are yeah so Steven you will oh there was the Ã¥kesson oh yeah ok I\u0027m sorry it\u0027s Dominic first in the agenda so dick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "if you will while like Dominic is coming up like I just can you just submit a update to the milestone so I can approve them so just to keep the time sadly yes thanks that that was actually a question we\u0027d like to have the milestones up to date so we\u0027ll submit under a suresh yeah ok so before actually discussing the overview document we have so there was a hackathon that is organized and Dominic is kind enough to present us all the things that that were achieved okay good morning so at the academy just before this IGF week we had an activity on cheek and it was actually two activities going on when was the interrupt testing between various implementations and the other one was actually hacking improving what we had already had so the companies or entities represented are listed here with myself apparently yes so before the hackathon the teams that came had the foreign assets AMD Atlantic previously known as telecom Britain in France had an end device implementation of shaken - in network side implementation in JavaScript and rules set up for Laura transmission a clue came with an end device in network implementation in go on Laura one Encik fox and myself from orange I came with a Laura device legacy device that knew nothing about IP but was able to transmit frames on Raw the Interop mostly happen on Saturday and then had empty at an taken at Leo face each other with the opposite implementations and device versus network in both sites and results will be shown at the last slide and so that was the interrupt part of it and then the hacking part of that was emt Atlantic adding the rules and testing on SiC Fox network on their own end device and network implementation and myself wrapping some Python code from EMP Atlantic end device I\u0027d put it on the network side and to write a quick decompressor that would be able to invent co-op UDP ipv6 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:08",
    "text": "messages based on legacy frames being transmitted by my row one device and so the the lessons learned from this hackathon so we have shown that we have multiple technologies interoperating we discussed and clarified how we want to do padding because the when the header is compressed it\u0027s not it does not necessarily fall on the byte boundaries of this padding that\u0027s involved in on technologies that are byte oriented and so you could have padding between the compressed air around the data or padding after concatenating the compressed header and data and in some cases you will have to padding\u0027s and so the decision was made to put padding at the very end also we agreed on a temporary representation for rules because the rules had to has have to be agreed on between the two parties and so right now we use a JSON representation that it\u0027s not meant to become the standard but at least for the interrupt we had to agree on something so that was agreed one issue that was discovered is how to manage the variable fields that happened to have zero length and go up as in a content has an interpretation of zero length as representing a zero value and she wanted her wants to be able to apply zero length fields to non-existent fields so that we can reuse the same rule number four frames which have some fields present in some non present so here we have we had discussion on how to interpret that and one has to agree on how this works on coop especially because of this zero length interpretation in coop before contents and eventually emt atlantic provides its implementation open source on github so this can be used as we can reference point for any anybody wanting to implement that and I think I\u0027m done that\u0027s that\u0027s fantastic Dominic I have a question for the others so you raise the number of points I think for each of these points we should open a ticket because we\u0027ve got a welcome document so I can help opening the tickets if you send me an email with the Prime statement of and that this should be individuals rights on the mailing list then we reserved this thread and I\u0027m pretty sure that we are ready for let\u0027s call so so let\u0027s open the tickets if you don\u0027t mind send me an email and and it\u0027s not from there the issue on the issue on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:08",
    "text": "the or length is just for coop so for ipv6 UDP there is no problem yes so part of the discussion today will be if we if we merge the coop document or not and depending on that well unless the surgeon for coop makes it makes it so that we have to change the IP UDP right so so I would like to see this so delete any question the room okay so two implementations one open source let\u0027s add ring okay thank you so right now we actually move to the LPO an overview from steve so let\u0027s bring up the agenda that\u0027s good time so i just posted 0 6 okay that\u0027s fantastic so it happens that we have uploaded your slides but download shipped on the website so i will have to take them from my desk but don\u0027t worry they are on the ITF side too you\u0027ll be able to see them very very very quickly yes I got I got some updated XML minor editorial changes basically from Charlie Perkins at 2:30 a.m. and at 7:00 a.m. I read that six confirm I was happy with them at six early sometimes out a bit at 2:30 but not at seven so I said okay so there\u0027s not much to say here but there we go next well okay okay so so between four and five there was just Mesa Khalid minor and text weeks mostly yeah it was just minor editorials from oh five two oh six it had I got the text to charity and posted zero six they\u0027re like couple minutes ago have a look at the dates I guess there was also a bit of additional text about sick fucks that I added in with one Mike Harris today well no can we do couple days ago and and I there was a minor tweak about the Laura text was otherwise it said I think we may still be waiting on some references from Charlie\u0027s mail in his new texts so I\u0027d say you have a look at it for a couple days maybe we\u0027ll add a new version get a couple of references but basically that\u0027s it so next slide oh yeah I have a chance a biggest lighter [Laughter] so basically yeah so we have now have a zero six so I give a few days society check it and I guess when the Shepherd\u0027s doing the Shepherd write-up that\u0027ll happen anyway there\u0027s no other changes I think just declare victory and sure enough so unless somebody has a thing to say it\u0027s like a perfect Steven thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "so much I mean everybody and at special special thanks for Charlie felt for the the extra thought of to make to make our dates and so yes I like see the shepherd he will be righting the ship out right up very very soon and and Suresh will be pushing this to the SG and with this is the fragmentation okay hello everyone I\u0027m going to present a fragmentation part of the cheek document so first of all let\u0027s take a look at the status of the document so since Chicago the the draft was updated several times revisions had been 0 3 0 4 and 0 5 and specifically on the fragmentation part we received two detailed reviews one by ego on version zero 3 and another one by Dominic on version 0 5 so thanks to both for the very helpful reviews and also there\u0027s been a lot of discussion and input received on in working group in dreams on the list or also offline so thanks to everyone who has made comments and helpful contributions so on the current status the last revision published is 0 5 although there are a number of updates already prepared which are ready on github in the working version of the document those updates have been prompted by Dominic\u0027s review and we could say that overall fragmentation is fairly stable so let\u0027s have a quick summary of the main updates actually since Chicago the version present that there was in 0 - so first of all we have that packet mode has been removed from the document we found that there were a few things that were not well supported few issues there and actually there were some solutions proposed so we can still continue working in packet mode however that should happen on a different document so as a result in this current document what we have is three fragment delivery reliability options first is Noack second is window mode icon arrow and the third one is window mode always then we have also added the possibility to support multiple windows sizes so imagine that for example a node needs to transmit a very large ipv6 Datagram which requires a large number of fragments to be carried then one option is to use a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:12",
    "text": "large window size in order to minimize as much as possible the acknowledgment overhead however may be the same note may need to sometimes send a smaller packet that maybe it just requires a few say two or three fragments to be carried so in that case it may be good to have to use in that case a smaller window size because then that leads to using a smaller bitmap so this kind of optimization is now possible by means of having a special Real ID for each specific window size that\u0027s being used then we have also added the concept of a highest CFN in the window that can be lower than 2 to the N minus 2 this is equivalent to having maximum window size which can be lower than 2 to the N minus 1 recall that n is the size of the CFM expressed in in bits as you can see in the fragmentation header which is shown on the slide and this is useful especially in scenarios where there may be constraints on the available space for the bitmap so the idea here is to be able to tailor well to exploit the bitmap space as much as possible and tailor the window size to that available bitmap space so for example imagine there are only 24 bits for the bitmap then we can use a window size of 24 fragments that would mean high C of n would be 23 and would be set to 5 and sender and receiver would be aware of this so there would not be issues so this is optimized compared with the previous approaches of the document where if you remember we didn\u0027t have this flexibility so the best option in terms of low overhead in the past would have been to set N to 4 have a maximum window size of 15 so there would be one acknowledgement every 15 fragments so now we have this additional flexibility and we can have one acknowledgement every 24 fragments okay then we have also added two fragmentation header field one is the W bit this is a one bit field which carries the same value for all fragments that correspond to the same window this is necessary to avoid ambiguity at the receiver side because losses can happen so there may be situations where the receiver might not know clearly whether a fragment corresponds to the current window or maybe the previous one and also for the same reasons the W bit has to also be included in the acknowledgment same reasons but in the other direction and on the other hand the second field is the Datagram tag in short d tag which is actually optional and if present it carries the same value for all fragments that correspond to the same ipv6 Datagram so the purpose here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:12",
    "text": "is to allow interleaving fragmented ipv6 Datagram transmissions and if used then the d tag field is also has to be also included in acknowledgment so that the fragment sender knows what is being acknowledged to which Datagram the acknowledgement corresponds we have also added timers so in window mode a cone error we have the timer call while the economy timer which is started it runs on the receiver side it started when the receiver gets the first fragment of an ipv6 Datagram and then it is reset every time that the new fragment is received and the receiver and if the timer expires that it means that at least the last fragment of the window has been lost so recall that in a canary we have nack oriented behavior so then the receiver would send an acknowledgment to report what has been received and not received and the timer would be reset and restarted and the receiver would wait for fragment retries so in ACK always in window mode always we have the icarus timer the fragment sender after transmitting the last fragment of a window will start this timer and upon expiration of the timer if the acknowledgement from the receiver hasn\u0027t been received by the fragment sender then the sender will return will send again the last fragment that had been sent and will restart again the timer so we also have the some parameters that control which is the maximum number of retransmission rounds that there will be so in a canary there\u0027s one parameter which determines the maximum number of acknowledgments per window that a fragment receiver is going to to send this is the first parameter as you can see then in AK always there are two parameters first one is max at requests the idea here is this is the maximum number of times that a request for a specific acknowledgment will be sent by a fragment sender and there is max frag retrace which determines the maximum number of Richard\u0027s missions for fragments that are reported to be lost in an acknowledgment in addition we have added the abort message which is a special message which can be sent by a fragment sender or fragment receiver in order to abort all ongoing fragmented ipv6 Datagram transmissions and this special message has also some corresponding special role ID to signal it and finally we have added a particular section on downlink fragment transmission so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:13",
    "text": "is motivated by the fact that in some in layer 2 technologies sending a downlink data unit is only possible right after previous applicant transmission so if we want to send a downlink fragment that ipv6 Datagram then the receiver of the fragments may want to send an a blink message right after doubling fragment is received in to avoid potentially large transmission delays so then as I explained the last version published e05 however there are a number of proposals already prepared on github and there are actually a number of updates however some of them are rather minor so this is a summary of the main ones possibly so let\u0027s go through them first one is important for terminology we were using the term CFN compress fragment number however Dominic pointed out that this might be little bit ambiguous because maybe a reader could it couldn\u0027t be clearer maybe for a reader whether what is compressed is the number or the fragment so just to avoid this possible ambiguity dominic suggested to modify the term so the proposed update is fragment compressed number so unless there are objections this would be like the new term used the new acronym then the highest FCN in the window is actually a constant so this was not so apparent in the previous version of the document so now in the proposed that days this will be more explicit and also there will be a notation specific notation for this which is proposed to be max Wynn FCN and also there is now an assumption that would be made more explicit also this is for window mode akan era and it relates with the sender behavior so the idea here would be to explicitly explain that an assumption is that the the wait time for an acknowledgment in aachen era has to be actually smaller than the time required to transmit a complete window so a sender would expect to receive an acknowledgment before the transmission of the next window of fragments otherwise there would be problems with the behavior of the protocol this is something that needs to be carefully considered especially taking into account the latency characteristics of the underlying layer 2 technology among others and finally there\u0027s from the discussion with Dominique there is actually one outstanding question he was suggesting that maybe we might want to define the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:13",
    "text": "use of Max frag retrace this parameter which is currently only defined for AK always it would be to consider whether this might be useful in akan error also so the reason why this is currently not yet considered in aachen error is that a fragment receiver will send an acknowledgment by doing that it will consume some resources which may be expensive and that is done with the expectation that then there will be fragment retrace in response however Dominic pointed out that maybe this could also be used as an attack so for example it might be possible to send this kind of ACK to some device and make it believe that it has to resend some fragments and this might be a way to maybe deplete that battery of the attacked device so then there might be different options on how to proceed with this so there are these three questions a B and C here so first is okay should we then define use of Max frag retrace also in aachen era then okay if we define it for a chimera should we explicitly say that maybe we should allow up to an infinite number of retries and maybe defer to future shikoku documents what has to be done here or it is something that should rather be handled at an implementation level and not really be explicitly specified here so what do you think Piscotty our individual contributor here I would certainly want to see this discussion on the mailing list I would like to see tickets from now on for for things like that because we are nearing completion and we need to track those things and again as an injured contributor I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think it hurts to have the variable and recommend it to be one I certainly want to see this discussion in the Security section saying oh there is an attack vector here is how its mitigated we recommend that you one for that reason oxygen okay thank you actually that\u0027s everything for this presentation Charton fantastic work sorry Charton excellent work thank you so much thank you yes just maybe a question for for a to the group so who has read and reviewed some part of the fragmentation section of this document in any version so quite a few people there and so the zero six version will be coming out soon or II already published it No and I\u0027m on the mike "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "okay this is an Amina borough then for version 6 we are waiting to finish the modification in cheek part of Dominic and then we are done for the document so I don\u0027t know so so so that\u0027s it and okay so yes any uh maybe this is the final question has anyone started actually implementing the full little shake document so we know that there are the compression part that have been already shown for the moment and now with this updated version of the fragmentation who has already started actually implementing this so there\u0027s there are two implementations there Diego and Diego auntie viola so this is one of the things that I would really like to see before we actually go into you know declare victory is to have some at least you know some first version of code running so that we are sure that you know we with because but by looking at the document and all the work in the procession for me it seems that we\u0027ve solved all the big issues that are out there there mainly some minor things to fix but the thing is working and I just want to see that there is like okay code wise it\u0027s also good and then it\u0027s I\u0027m pretty happy with the result so it\u0027s it\u0027s I think one implementation is is often quite good because just the first level of of start right documents having icon three with lawhon so so three of them one of them open source I think we are in a great shape on that regard with this I will ask la hoja now I don\u0027t know how he distributed the roles so like I said earlier that the presentation is not exactly match the documents because the fragmentation is actually in the same document as the IP UDP compression which is most of the work for the compression and then the coop piece is a separate document but this slide where kind of covers the the compression when I type Jakob whether the documents as the our structure makes sense or I should want to ship that differently is an open question but that the presentation at least not match exactly that the documents so be prepared to see something from coop compression as well as UDP hello I\u0027m Anna Meena where I will present the update of the compression part of the Chicopee and UDP draft I want to thanks Diego and Carlos over reviews that have already updated in the document in version 5 we are working with Dominique for his "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "updates and modifications so thank you all so one of the most important things between Chicago version 3 and today version 5 is the that we define a generic framework then we work a lot of things we take out things of the coop draft to the chic draft in order to create chic compression framework then we also generate and take out from the version three we were explaining how to compress IP UDP headers in the middle of the framework then we take it out we create a new section we also enhance little bit the description of the processing of how to how to make the compression another what this is in the general stuff how we can we order the work in more technical things we we add in the match mapping compression decompression action normally it was defined as a list then what as soon as we see in the implementation we also accept to be an arai we have a very weak a discussion of padding as Dominic mention well before hackathon we didn\u0027t know if we put it padding between the header compress and the data or with Patten padding at the end of the of the old packet so as Dominic said the discussion result is that padding will be at the end and after data we we add a security section for the sheik compression and I know Morris things that had been changed we have to add or copy they architecture part of the overview draft in order to make the reference not to the informational document so we add it\u0027s a copy/paste of the architecture have that have been already defined in the overview draft as you can see some modification is instead of naming the hosts or things like things we put it as device we don\u0027t make an acronym we only reduce the name devices death because the device could be many things we also change the name of the network gateway we add @w to make it way in order to be more understandable in the application server we didn\u0027t put application as an acronym we do it also a reduction of name because it could be a server or an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "application or then we leave it as a more open what else we add in other does we join the coop part with the IP UDP when we need to add new fields in the route so we we add the file id and a new column in their role in order to name the all the fields of the header we had the position and the direction indicators and we change the name of the compressor the compression function as compressor the compressor so with this week we have the same description of the rule for any protocol another thing that has been discussed is for the LSB and MSB must be matching operator or LSB compression the compression action how to send the lens of the value so the thing is that for coop cop define a maximum number of 1,024 bytes so we need to have very large numbers but we give importance to the very little number that\u0027s why we put four bits for the little for the little number 0 to 14 and we have to define large number but we don\u0027t think we are going to use them in check or an LP one so the question has a Dominic put it it was heard about the value 0 value 0 normally you don\u0027t sent it but because for example in coop in Europe add on your query doesn\u0027t exist 0 is that it doesn\u0027t exist but when you have an acceptor or content 0 is value 0 when you have a 0 so in order to go forward with the chic compressor draft we think that this must be specified in the coop draft at least that\u0027s a question will you agree with this or do you want that this specification will be done in the she compression Pascal here my feeling is that we\u0027ll still discover stuff we need to do in addition to this document so either we all this document survivor which is a manager or we we stopped somewhere and in what we described generically we still need to keep some room for new ways in the forthcoming documents meaning that in my view it\u0027s in order to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:34",
    "text": "ship this document and it\u0027s cleaner right so I not sure yet we we need to be open that the forthcoming document will define additional stuff including this I\u0027m perfectly happy to see it push to go up there are about a million ways of doing a variable-length field I love to have at least some rough idea of why this one or three or seven but thing one or three years and nibble thing is the the thing that they\u0027re actually makes sense so at least a little bit of thinking about probabilities of certain videos and so may be useful the other observation is if your code space includes length values as well as the absence of the future then just use one of the videos for the absence of the Fiat so you could use 0 for the absence 1 for length 0 or 2 for length 1 and so on so that need not be a problem of course you need to define how this mapping works but that is indeed specific to for instance quad ok can we have a ticket on this yeah ok one rule to tell one remark about the length is that in fact when we put a zero lens for your a puff is because we can have a rule that contains for example three description of the array path but you receive a packet with only two urate at so in that case we can have a kind of negative compression it means that we send four bits equal to zero to say that the first Yuri path doesn\u0027t exist so is is too rare to have more flexibility on world selections so it\u0027s not sending something that doesn\u0027t take this but it\u0027s a in the we have three places and only two are used so that\u0027s why we will send this zero light and the other remark is about document so the first document described a way to send if it\u0027s a fing on the radio and then we have to interpret these things so in coop we have to specify that if you receive something in zero length when it\u0027s accept of content it means its value 0 and if you receive it for you re pay for your agrees means that it doesn\u0027t exist but trouble since the semantics are different isn\u0027t it a different rule or something I mean should not do the action say this value means present not present and found different action it means the what you\u0027re reading there is the actual value like a zero every trouble that that you have a confusion of semantics when you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "have a action that can tell you what the semantics are no no we don\u0027t have because it\u0027s different from different behavior from the nature of the option yes that\u0027s what the action is so carefully at the option we have known big with if we just say option then we may have a big ambiguity but if we say you\u0027re a path for content it will there is no ambiguity so this is of a question so here what you\u0027re talking about is some very advanced compression in coop and stuff like this so it\u0027s like it\u0027s something very we think good or you think could be nice to have so we don\u0027t know if this is going to be used probably yeah so what I suggest is that we don\u0027t block the document on this like trying to solve some some problem that might or some minor issue that we might need to solve and we just say okay we define some rules some way to send you information on in coop will define a way to interpret this information and try to optimize it yes I certainly don\u0027t want to delay the document for something like that but but but since we have a solution on the table which was just propelled by constant let\u0027s apply the ticket because if we now know that that there is a value 0 for 5 T and then ever you would everything is minus 1 and 1 min 0 that\u0027s a perfect solution for the problem we have time before the working class code to just discuss that at the waiting list and if it\u0027s better than we ship it if we don\u0027t find anything but we know we can solve it in coop that we should the document and we serve it in God okay okay thanks there are more questions thank you then again congratulation for the work I\u0027ve never seen such a tight schedule has we had this time and having multiple implementation working in last less than a year and enter working that that\u0027s just huge okay so I continue with a new another document which is ship for coop so the first one is defining the basic rule and we apply it to AP visits and UDP but for coop as we have said in previous meeting is more complex because coop is a symmetrical you are variables in lands you have a lot of things that are different from the statical things from UDP and IP with it so what\u0027s new for first a polite but was a document nothing so we in fact the graphics prior and it\u0027s meant we have to issue a new value but now a new version but now we have things to do especially with variable Finland so it will be done done soon so why we have done nothing is because we move all the tools we need for coop into the previous document which gives a very good way to do a lot "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "of very flexible compression so for example for for coop we put the matching list so it\u0027s a way to reduce fields like code or type you have a thousand for for code you have a lot of value but maybe you will use your an implementation you will use only three or four so this way you can reduce the size of code or type by just sending an index and this way you you can reduce what you are sending we have also the asymmetry so we have the direction that we put in the main document it can be useful in 96 for the up limit but here is very useful also because if I the point in one way you resend a post on the other way you will receive error message or an acknowledgement on this way if we separate buffer them we can have a better compression of the information so we put and we can also compress coop message by reducing the size of some fixed length side like message ID or token and we can use MSB and LSB option to action to do that so now we we have something that works quite well we begin to understand more and more how we can do very optimal compression of coop so yesterday for example we can call compress co-op in two bytes so what was something very good so the things we have to do now is to describe very well this very powerful things that can lead to a negative compression it means that there were something that doesn\u0027t exist leads to four bits sent on the wire but can be more flexibility in world selection so we have to describe this in details to to see our to understand how it works so what we have to to do next so we maybe we will have to discuss with core people about how we can adapt co-op to lp1 environment because for example we can have sensor but with send information every days or every errors on since now we are putting IP server cannot make the distinction between a sensor vats and every days on another one that sent every minutes so we will have problem with time out on especially in the server we keep a list of the message ID not to process twice the same value but if this list is maintained as its just under five minutes and we are sending every hours so if we do a retransmission then of course it will be lost and we will process again the message so we have to tell the server this sensor as a priority of one hour "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:35",
    "text": "this sensor already city of one day etc and if we want a generic server may be a good way to do that is to have an option that gives the time square of what we are sending and this will have an impact or so in the compression because if we know all these things we can dimension the message ID field and have something that will be optimal on the radio so that\u0027s some for example things we will have to do to adapt co-op for lp1 okay so what\u0027s fantastic and since we have we have experience and basically message dumps how would it make sense to put examples or recommendations in annex to help because first thing is people will read this document and they wonder you always find that\u0027s right how much can you compress with this thing and I have every year 6lowpan document have paper out right size oh six of mine comprises two and they give some numbers and and I don\u0027t know why they find those numbers actually it would be great that you have some some examples that you feel are kind of really representative like temperature and pressure in this room if you could show the exchange the compression the rules that you use for that particular case it\u0027s important because you may actually find that several rules so ever way of writing your rules may work there is not a single way of writing them but there might be recommendations about how to write them well and there might be examples of work done well in this document we have already example but we can put more example and we also study when we develop it the way kamae is using coop and so we can also give some example about about cammack but we will have also to study other platforms but use co-op and see how we can compress it actually on this part I would be I think that one of the things we should actually take make sure is that the system the whole system is working right and this last point for example with the timers this is something that seems pretty important to me because otherwise it\u0027s you know we can have systems where you know it just doesn\u0027t work because of the time scale difference so this is one point that seems very important and I\u0027m not sure if you have other things that you have identified that need to be fixed because before we can need to be addressed before we can say well it\u0027s it\u0027s ready to to be deployed and you know with the time we\u0027ll get more and more and more feedback on what are the rules and how we know we can do this efficient compression what do we have to do this on LP one or in core that\u0027s the question because you cannot put everything on this document because we will discover no need for new options and if we had a new option it\u0027s not a problem on the sheik mechanism because it\u0027s very flexible and we say okay now in the rule you have this option time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:35",
    "text": "square for example and it works so it will not influence the the compression is more the behavior of coop server but have to be more generic more take more diversity of source of of clients so that\u0027s the question so I think that here what one of one of the points is you are right so we were defining a new co-op option then we know where this work should be done so in in core then the the the question is of course carsten how are you feeling about this and are we going to you know how do we define here and we specify okay we want to have this option and then we move to core to actually do the work or you know well we have a meeting in one and a half or so if you can maybe generate a little bit of slide where to motivate this we can discuss it right there I think but we have experienced this kind of problem before so in the constraint space all the typical defaults for timers do shift so for instance we we had to do something to DTLS like to make it work in the constraints okay so this is not not a new idea to anyone in the room and I can imagine putting this information into an option may be a good way to inform appear that that is not necessarily on the very constrained network to understand what what the other peer is experiencing any any question follow and thank you Thank You Kirsten I mean we really appreciate this interaction with Co so the next presentation will be big-oh on the ICMP compression well good morning everybody trendy go-to company and we have developed this draft with Tom on Legos I also hate the editorial draft and there\u0027s an implementation of the draft working with which soap and sauce which were the link is on the last slide so our idea is a new draft is the contribution is to define a way to map icmpv6 some compression of course and see compression and they think is that we have been done some some extra work trying to reduce the number of of bits used a general using bits on the rule ID field since we have some freedom to use it okay so the the fields we are where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:36",
    "text": "the packets we are compressing the echo requests they could reply put solicitation advertisement and neighbor solicitation method or advertisement so they think for a missing steel and wetland rewrite a read compress redirect compression and they internalize their role performance yes please well just to say that the reuse a lot of times the use of whole ID field it\u0027s you put a semantic and this field yes you have you have other if information on even on day on there in the field on the ID field because it\u0027s something when we design yeah shake we don\u0027t put any semantic we don\u0027t even know the length of the field okay so it\u0027s very difficult to apply a semantic because it will be chic of a few battles you you use this size of this size but the generic document doesn\u0027t okay so I\u0027m a I\u0027m a understand it\u0027s not allowed to do that for my opinion is not a good idea okay but since there was a phrase on there was some freedom to use it okay but just a question of upon this is it clearly stated somewhere that we should not have any semantics on the row ID I don\u0027t remember I think I heard this nothing which we should address because you know we future documents people I think that it then will be this natural wave okay well what if we do this exact know this you should you can get something random here and you should it should still work okay we have done it in this version okay there are certain which we have said because of this but anyway we can maybe you can keep a static value of the of the ID field a real ID field and then push all these bits so the payload is okay actually thank you very much for actually identifying this because I think it would have been not very good thing to move on with you know and then maybe on Europe later to find out where people are actually adding semantics so that\u0027s actually a great thing oh yeah thanks so for the time being we are going to explain about this Manta kiss but maybe in after the definition I see HCA then we change that okay so we see provided in maybe just named all the bits just that here okay I\u0027m free to the bits we have given a number of values okay so we supplied it which is the next here field okay of an exterior UDP so if I we have reserved for this okay a hundred twenty eight artists and then we need to define if you the address is link local or global okay which are using within the ACP field and we have reserved one bit for the future use then the mapping continues with the type of message we are using there okay so we are not the ones we have already done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:37",
    "text": "yeah and the radio act is not implemented yet but it has already a code then if another bit the sense your single packet is sent okay or after party we have some extra information we can we can think about some some link options and so on so talking about the echo request I record by specifically okay then they say what the generic header okay this one for the echo quick reply then we have only sending okay 32 bits there for the identifying for sequence sequence sorry a checksum can be recalculated okay and the type on code we can be shared between the before we turned it to a note and a gateway so well this over the last one it cannot be seen okay is optionally the link layer option which is the only part we are sending for the road to solicitation type packet there and there are every other part of the packet is not same so we are just using 48 bits which is just economic in terms of bits okay for a time of harvest ice meant the other there is packet okay we just again sending only the old a link layer option that\u0027s which is there in dispenser thing is fundamental to Santa yeah then on the neighbor solicitation it becomes a little bit complex because way either way we need like this again to send it the link local ok and the global I I either if you are wasting one or the other because we are trying to understand who\u0027s around and if there\u0027s a there\u0027s the same prefix all around the notes okay it there will be a link local value but if they are not okay we have signed a full value the new BL global one and then the ocean link layer is again 48 bits for a neighbor of this type advertisement sorry the last packet okay then we have also used only the target others which is 64 and 128 that\u0027s the only either one or the other okay and we have ignore the the option length or link layer there because you are just advertising our size that you exist in within network and that\u0027s it so the thing is that nothing is just mostly straightforward yes but scary basically we are here so you\u0027ve selected number of messages and basically you\u0027ve used all the possible bits so it means like the format is stuck to to the message in your children and rule of thumb I would have thought that the first message I would have encoded would not have been one of those three I would have encoded I see em here to be able to report any form of Europe and since I mean just right okay so I\u0027m just I\u0027m just concerned that that may be the next step wouldn\u0027t should be probably that the meaningless discuss is about what exactly which exactly ICMP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:40",
    "text": "messages we feel should be protected by this organism and I think Iraq could you are okay yeah you want the tickets for it um there\u0027s not ticket because not okay okay so is is polish over there yep you have any questions both if you want thank you so actually this is a very thank you very much for for this work and this is a very good question because we are it is not in our Charter today and at some point we will need to to ask ourself is this some is this a work that we are going to be interested in doing so I know we\u0027ll be talking a little about this but as well as while we are speaking about this I would like to ask if you consider it to be a work which is interesting for us yeah so I\u0027m sorry Christian so if the current items are all done we can have a drink chattering discussion but I know you have some open points right now but don\u0027t talk about option right now like but just or like like until we decide like you know what other things kind of things you want to work on like you know hold it down to then like so you have something on for today so like we can talk about it at that point okay so kind of like to have a better view of like what are the things that are required and see how it fits in there later I will present the discussion we have in the Middle East so this point was very very interested for everyone oh yeah I will just asked if people read the document and if there is an interest no of course we are way too early for this okay yeah they guess lo ha we all need you back on the microphone again yeah yeah okay so that\u0027s something that is very old so it\u0027s a real document that is when we started walking on cheek so wish you this document but now maybe it\u0027s time to to think again to work on it so when we when we design the rules we don\u0027t in the document we don\u0027t say any way to implement it so we have one way is to use design but it\u0027s not very efficient and another way will be to to use young and so this is an attempt to do that so in the rule design as I now showed we have different fields so we have different words so it\u0027s a list of rules on each each rule we have a list of fields and we have some value that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:41",
    "text": "will be well-known for example I find that this here for examples of a field we can define some well-known value currently in our implementation is text but it can be also an identify er generically notify or but save this field is an ipv6 reference field this fig is the coop your area path for something like this so we are this of the position it\u0027s a number Direction is three possible value be directional upstream dumb string target value can be anything it can be a number string an array so we have everything we find in a packet matching operator currently we have defined five of them but of course we can add over one but this one are the one we think are the best now right now to do the compression and same thing for compression the compression action we have a list of action that we can apply for compressing or decompressing so it means that it\u0027s so as I say we can use a reason way to represent it but here for example this is a rule we use for the accattone it\u0027s about 2500 bytes so if we use some technology but sense only and when I read a message a day of 12 bytes it will takes two days to send this word so it\u0027s not quite efficient in lp1 and technologies and of course what we need also is to do partial updates off patch it means that we may change for example saucepot because a node will change it so spot or change of rollable because not one speci to specify a floor level or all these things so we need a way to signal it and not of course to send everything on on the radio so that\u0027s why young could be a good candidate for first because we can have a compact and unique representation for some of the field of the of the rules and also we can have complex compact representation of the exchange between the node he is a device and the compressor in the compressor the compressor in the infrastructure so for example as I say we can add for example a network gateway or a compressor that will assign ipv6 prefix to the device so it\u0027s a kind of neighbor discovery or very small level discovery and say you have this prefix so then checksum and all those things can be done on this value on the device can assign or can tells the network I am using this spot number I am using this destination address or not may change the destination address for because you may put an update on the node so we need all these things and what can be done also is to have something compact is that this rule can also be compressed using shake so we have something a kind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:43",
    "text": "of recursive so we have to to define that in annyeong so in the first document we made a rule so this is about the same rules that it updates with the new version of after the rule as we announced on before you go into the detail mr. please state your name so the Jason you showed that the start is kind of the truck I mean it\u0027s big and it doesn\u0027t fit Italian streets and so on and the the yangtze bar is maybe the the car or the Meseta smart but maybe what we actually need here is more like Vespa so I\u0027m sure this can be made to work with yang I\u0027m not sure that we we don\u0027t have needs for keeping this stuff compact that go beyond what we would do with a standard yang solution really I\u0027m not sure I need to find out in more detail but I think that doing something just using coop and and see what payloads maybe even the the new co-op act mechanism that we talked about in the Cebu working group and maybe the the co-op h document that the Peter and I have to finish at some point in time that might be even more compact so if compactness is a it\u0027s a really important requirement here I will probably go into that direction if general cultural compatibility with other management actions is our overriding concern then we should go with a yangko me okay end of solution for two things for young for me the formalism that leads at the end to an implementation using Sieber and both cases without you see well but so the implementation by itself will not be that complex what we have with young is a formalism that us to design this yes but if we use yang I think there is a certain expectation that we would use the yangtze bow but do you want to do a second see were encoding is young Siebert yeah and and what I\u0027m trying to say is we can go way beyond the level of compactness or a offered by that if we know exactly what you want to do so yang is kind of the general thing that works "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:43",
    "text": "very well and yes you can transport a sofa and NMSU the smart if you have to but maybe we need a Vespa so a perv so yeah this did these are like three points here that are really important and this is why I think that yang is the right tool to use so the first thing is has all that you said there is that it actually provides the semantics that it actually says okay I mean geez and this is just this is just representation right but you still need to know what co-opted code is and how you know that ipv6 that version what it is and right now you have city like in a text so yang is the formalism it\u0027s the formal way that you describe okay there is a model so there are these fields and I expect here to dust at that point to have to have this type of value and so forth then you have as Kirsten said you have the young to see boor mapping that actually allows you to map this thing to see bore to something that is very very efficient right and then you have the protocol bindings that come to kamae so that you actually are using patch and fetch so this is already income I so I think that we we should also look into the way this these things will be implemented deployed and we don\u0027t want I mean this is like chair had a flaw this is really a personal opinion that we want to have running code and we want to have interoperability and we want to have something very efficient but you know in the same time we don\u0027t want to to spend too much time designing someone new to go or some new thing that is made for this another argument is that if we have different protocol it means that we put a value somewhere to say this is this protocol of this protocol so it takes place we have to send something on here the more we have something generics the more we can compress all the information on the radio if I can react from just a higher standpoint we want to get into a position where the the quick-and-dirty is actually harder to do than the right way and that boils down to having to - enabling the reuse of all what the community has built including yes yeah and and and all the tools which rely on young same thing for all the tools which rang an IP to enable youth to go form a to be situated cetera we even if it looks like oh it\u0027s so much complexity actually at the end of the day for the developer because of those tools are they\u0027re doing the right thing is a lot less expensive to develop and test if we use all those common IT tools and that\u0027s really why we are doing all this right so this view of what law is proposing here goes in that exact same direction of enabling the clean way in an easy fashion funny buddies so that they don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:43",
    "text": "do the dark dirty way any other come on thank you so much now what kind of relationship did you get with the young doctors have you started working with them I have not been killed by a young doctor right now so Wow well I don\u0027t show it so of course we have to do a lot of work in young representation and it\u0027s a concept that it\u0027s quite new for me so we we do an example so I think there is one that we again but we have to take advice and discuss more about what is a good place for fantastic I\u0027m confused that the the value is still anything probably there is a tree of representations that the value is what it\u0027s supposed to be but souls so now okay fantastic let us move continue this work prison and just a whole lot of helpful people at the ATF at every ATF which you could contact them work with and with these let\u0027s go to with short ring and we\u0027ve got some slides from her now about the discussions we\u0027ve had so far then we\u0027ll have an open discussion and we have about half an hour for the whole thing okay I will I will present where the discussion we have little bit in the memory list for these new items to be working the working group so the first one was the ICMP compression thanks to the ago to make the first version of draft this item has a lot of input in the mailing list there were more than 10 people that said that they were they agreed to work in this ICMP compression and then we have also the Sheikh over specific help e1 technologies I think it\u0027s very important there were no input about these items if there are volunteers to work on this the idea is to to see in the different technologies how we can define the [Music] different variables of the cheek compression in order to work the best in in the lp1 technologies and then we have another item is the security for the LP ones with the sheik implementation or compression then there are there were no input there neither and the other idea was the ruse ID management the idea is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:44",
    "text": "well they rely t is an abstract number do you want or is there any input about resolving some rules ID for in order to identify that these belongs to fragmentation this belongs to format values this belongs to ICMP this is more coop or we\u0027ll leave it as a general value and this will be specified in the progression of the specific protocol in order to identify that this rule is for this protocol or or it\u0027s better to define some numbers for some protocols that was one of the question yeah so chair had on for just a short question here about the rule IT management could it be also specified in the she cover full document so for example this technology specifies okay well for us rule ID number one is fragmented packet or rule ID 2 is ICMP blah blah blah so if I can react to that I\u0027d rather separate the informational description of a particular technology like the nice drive that we have today with something which could become normative and could be very small but which we say oh let\u0027s focus now on setting those parameters and and let\u0027s make that establish accuracy so I would like to specific and the last pointer was a young data modeling for XI cursor on present once so if you have more inputs or comments or if you want to be balanced or to make one of these documents regularly so there were few proposals in the past right like radio resource management and gateway to the networks of standardizing the interfaces so I did at least once or twice you know in the previous site years I presented this proposals all right again just a list one Israeli radio resource management on the gateway right they firing the objects right irrespective the protocol but I an find the radio elements right information elements that need to be managed that is one work item alright that is for from deployment point of view that is an extremely important aspect right let\u0027s say if I\u0027m deploying Laura right or some other access network I should be able to get the ready resources understand them at least manage them that\u0027s one point second point is if you look at it currently there is no standardized interface between the out between the gateway in the network server so if you change the network access technology Laura to seek Fox pretty much they are the same issue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:44",
    "text": "fundamentally there is a sensor there\u0027s an access point or a gateway and then there\u0027s some aggregation function on boarding element right so this in between if you can standardize one interface in which we can support multiple radio technologies I think that will be of immense use essentially you know industry will really greatly benefit from an interoperability point of view even within Laura alliance is also not defying that standard right so this is a great opportunity for ATF to standardize that so those are my two you know proposals I would really love the technologies on the mailing list or were to react on your proposals in particular the latter one because that that request I would like to see it coming from people who will actually would deploy those things have it do they see the same thing as you do I mean I really appreciate you your view and I would like to see if they\u0027re to get more people joining in and say yes it\u0027s a good idea right I know I\u0027m not just saying this on the mic but I also to be fair I presented those proposals twice so sounds good knows no less than people because we have the technologies are being represented in this cook so I\u0027d like to have this discussion on the mailing list and and see see support for this had you\u0027re coming in to the help sure thanks I\u0027m serious Krishnan so she you proposed it right so like do it again right at that time the was not Charl do it so you need to start that process again to get this thing down but this like to think two things I wanted to say first thing is like we need to figure out like what font is gonna happen so this is gonna be like a standard sized document or like informational stuff on what somebody else does right so that\u0027s like the first decision we need to make if you want to go down this path if there is interest right are we gonna just document the stuff that other people do like for like the overview stuff right like we decided we\u0027ll document like what other people are doing like about other technologies that\u0027s one thing second thing is like we had like a very good relationship with the other SDOs right like going and I want to keep it that way so we don\u0027t want to be like stepping on the turf and doing things for them okay so we need to have an understanding from the other SDOs what their plans are so they like to come here to the IETF and do the work or like do they want to do the things themselves right and that might lead to choosing let\u0027s say like X of these deals like some subset says yes and some subset says no that might lead to picking a different set of technologies than the overview for doing this work right so that\u0027s also something we need to consider because like for example like sig Fox might decide like I\u0027ve done this right and they might just decide to put it here or not right and stuff like that so I I want to be very careful on like how we do this relationship because like we\u0027re not like having formally essence or anything most of the case except I Triple E but I want to be a bit careful here like chattering work but I\u0027m willing to do it like if there\u0027s a community so like you know like she gets the ball rolling and then you figure out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:45",
    "text": "is people to do then I\u0027ll make sure that the other is the others understand that we are interested in doing this work and then I\u0027ll go from there but I want these three kind of steps to happen before we get in that area because there is that is very very technology specific stuff and as Sri says this X stuff that\u0027s in common but we need to figure out like you know if like we are walking into a party uninvited you know thanks yeah thanks additionally one comment is you know if you look back on the cellular side the gtp is what you know we never managed to you know push you know mobile TV 6 because gdq GDP was deployed already in the right so here we don\u0027t want LP vans to go that long at least iedf can do something I mean it\u0027s very important that you race exactly what you said on the meaningless and I would love I will ask for you know people to react from the various technology we have several vectors to actually show interest well it\u0027s too late for the other of you but there is a gap analysis in the overview and and then there are the individual documents and then there\u0027s the meaning list I mean there are multiple ways by which the individual actually support what you\u0027re saying or say no I don\u0027t know I mean we need to see right and now if we see a converging interest I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s exactly why we\u0027re here Thanks Thanks we have more time for chattering that we had that private discussion about the need for an architecture document we\u0027ve seen already that the the drawing which basically gives names because three words on the mic two seconds ago when he was talking about gateway and network servers and actually we are trying to spread the words that to be generic and that point of the particular technology we kind of have a generic name like the radio gateway at the network gateway to name those things and it\u0027s kind of obvious for everybody what technology block this becomes and that\u0027s the overview actually helps you do that but at some point we talked about the need for an architecture document which would lay out how we see things and just wonder if people in this room think it\u0027s useful so I mean let\u0027s take this in a different way no no I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s let\u0027s say this in a different way today we have so I I would not address this like in the sense of okay we have gateways radio gates and so forth I mean that\u0027s has been done we have already some things out there it\u0027s mostly in the fact that we are bringing like we have the compressor the compressor now and we have the and this thing is like it lives somewhere out there and it must be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:46",
    "text": "surrounded in which I mean it we must construct something around it so that it is actually viable part of this part of the things that we need to do is for example how we define the compression how we express the compression context so during the hackathon there was this JSON format that was you know like people around the table defined it so they they were able to interoperate right but right now we need to go to we need to define an extensible mechanism for actually doing this so yang is the one way to do it there may be others you know there may be you the use of comma and and so forth and so forth but there is maybe this need to actually define how these two how all these things and there will be new things coming how they will orchestrate how they will work together because like we\u0027re building this and maybe I mean I I think that in order for systems to interoperate we\u0027ll need at some point to have a document that describes okay a new device comes since this type of message comes the other then you know the compressor gets the big context from this and they are there so all the things that we\u0027ve been doing for the moment like hard-coded to to move this to a really to a system that\u0027s actually working much much much better Express then but that\u0027s exactly what thank you if you can say what I\u0027m going to say next so I mean because we have these discussions before that and and I I know that\u0027s what we were talking about so I just didn\u0027t want to do it so it\u0027s like the whole system how the whole system works and I will ask the question make honkers do you want to say something before I ask the question and if there is interest of doing this work we need okay so you need to say okay go ahead on Cassie yeah Carlos Anya yes I\u0027d like to ask questions oh so thanks yes I think that\u0027s a much better explanation I wasn\u0027t sure if we were talking about network architecture functional architecture what but I was after a big picture so we can position if you are taking we have to come back to chattering here so that needs to be a map and say oh we are we want to cover this piece in the map and so so I think the we start that the when we did the the bath work we provide a very initial vision of what the big picture was and and we said oh we could be working here we could be working here we could be working here I don\u0027t know how to position the compression state in the place where the compression or the compression will happen because this thing I must be agnostic to start with it doesn\u0027t know which device will be placed in network so there\u0027s a number of functions that we know will probably care for and if we add this this map then we could navigate it and say let\u0027s shout out this let\u0027s chatter this and that\u0027s what I was after so so then my question is I I do well first of all I I do see value in this document because indeed it\u0027s it\u0027s always hard to explain to people our development groups and so on exactly how things work so a document like that would be very useful but right now we are still talking about jung-mi ICMP and rules so fragmentation so how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:49",
    "text": "how do you foresee the timeline of this document compared to the work or the where we are so is this something that will come after we have already agreed on on this young fragmentation and rule definition or is is it a moving target or is it a live document that we will freeze at the end once we are happy with what we\u0027ve done or this okay so personally I think that we should have like it should go in somehow together so that we have this we discuss and we say okay well there is this first it super important piece that we have now that is the shake compression mechanism and now we need to make it a living thing so in order for it to live we need this this and this and then we need a document that actually says okay these two work or these things together they work in this way right so I would go with a pragmatic approach where we have like the description of how the things work and maybe you know put some references to ok this thing could live from as a function in this network element or this network element but I would mostly focus on the protocol part of it you know how how how they all interact so develop them in in writing parallel so not publishing the document before we finished our discussions yes so we had the similar question in six dish so if we can take inspiration from that we wrote an architecture from almost day one which which gave a big picture of where we felt who were going to die we build everything and obviously we had only alph of the protocols or less than that that were needed for this big picture but we didn\u0027t know that if whether we would build the big picture all the way and this has been effectively a moving target and we have been saying oh now we found a way to do this it\u0027s going to be that protocol file since the joint process that we are building and and some things will maybe never happen but that gave us the map the high level from from some distance view of what we cover up globally you know and and where we could be working and how those things interact with one another etcetera so so people can can figure out oh you\u0027re doing this building block but that\u0027s that\u0027s where it will go in the world okay why why your stone the mic actually I would like to get back to the to this list of things that people because that we discussed and that people say okay that that could be interesting to were there are some interest so you as as sick folks as a technology provider which one of these elements seem important to you and you know things that we should be looking more for a future work like well the list is very comprehensive I think we have already discussed this I see value in most if not all of them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:50",
    "text": "ICMP definitely she cover a few sure security I\u0027m still puzzled about what exactly because here it says everything and I specified security for Schick and so I think we need to dig more into what exactly it is before I could say yes or no the rules ID I\u0027m open to discussing whether it falls into shake over for or it\u0027s independent and the yang for sure I mean we\u0027ve been having this disgusting discussion so the yang of things and I think it\u0027s extremely valuable to to open up a plus of course this architecture or high-level description or functional description etc document okay so we can count on you for a chic or sick Fox document yes okay okay anyone with some more on this list or or some items that we have not discussed and you further thought okay we can we I mean we\u0027ll continue on the mailing list certainly and and so we will probably starts write down those items and try to to get support eco from like one calais from other technologies and and then we will we\u0027ll go and propose which other items I wanted to ask so this is a question to our ad Suresh so how do you see from from here you know given that we need to get some of the milestones we are pretty pretty much on target with with a lot of them but you know we need maybe go up and and these things how how do you feel we should address so I I think Christian so I think you should work on the list like trying to get this narrow down before Singapore so and if everything is done before Singapore we can actually do like the reach chattering discussions completely on list and beer each other if a Singapore but I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure like looking at the shake stuff that will be done before Singapore like shipping it out okay so I\u0027m glad to be surprised on that but the way I see it is like be ready like get the shake stuff done and ship it off if there\u0027s any open issues close them off and seeing of Singapore spend most of the time for the read chattering discussion and get like you know laissez like series comments Juan Carlos comments like you know like I tried on them on the list like don\u0027t spend meeting time like for doing that and if there\u0027s anything open because I\u0027m sure there\u0027s something come up that\u0027s gonna be we probably gonna hear from like the Laura people right like i triply folks and I think they\u0027ll be worth needed on the rich chattering in the Singapore meeting but I would like to get most of the work done before like you know at least have a potential new charter like what you want to put it in and like be ready for what what comes up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:51",
    "text": "in the meeting okay and so like I know Pascal we can probably you can probably talk to the I Triple E people to just socialize it like so so that\u0027s something we can like you know get started off on and probably like one follows for the same thing and maybe I\u0027ll per Jeff for the year yeah I really wish to see those technologies showing up on the mailing list so we can have a better understanding of what you care and I think the 3gpp piece was like kind of missing because like you know auntie is like not like doing this continuously but I\u0027ll try do like dig up somebody like from 3gpp as well to take a look and comment because if you miss like one like they\u0027re gonna do a different thing so the idea of like you\u0027re not doing like common thing doesn\u0027t really happen if we miss out like I\u0027m on other major technologies we pick before so as I said like get started off on it as long as it doesn\u0027t draw their resources from people who are writing the documents and reviewing the documents if it doesn\u0027t take too many cycles start it off now if you want okay and on this so if we\u0027ve managed to shift I mean when we ship the IP UDP shake and maybe we delay will be the Crab Shack big because we need to go with the co-op option and all these kind of discussions is this do you consider this is sufficient for you know if you November we have the IP IDP she can say okay co-op we know we have a milestone at the end of the earth something sure update the milestones right another program like like you guys are made like great progress right like and I know it does address it on lines I know you\u0027re a little bit late but I I knew you would be a little bit late right because I know the numbers are like crazy already starting off right so I think it\u0027s a pretty good like you make great progress so just go ahead and I think we can manage like you know one document pending from the previous shutter and we were chartered to do like one item so like it ended up being like multiple kind of but it\u0027s okay I\u0027d like but we can have the discussion after but I don\u0027t mind having the reach having discussion now like before Singapore or at Singapore okay thanks thanks for attention I think you\u0027re gonna be the next on the boiling plate so but Bobby she might so I was lucky enough to be I do Tripoli last week and attend the interest group LP WA which has met every day and it was a regreat regret sessions that we had and then there were also a number of discussion about it in 4k and then there is the general activity on my son etc so there\u0027s a lot you can tell us about thank you okay I\u0027m got some slides "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:55",
    "text": "on 15 dot twelve you a little verbal on LPW a and the revision of 15.4 because we\u0027re endlessly doing revisions sadly molt make that\u0027s good news we had a number of goals in Berlin opening report of course but the important stuff was we had a large number of presentations this particular go around including detailed discussions on PDD PP de mmm p.m. pass through etc etc so in terms of a general status update we were looking at various format issues you know like where should L to RIE be inserted and where should how should discovery be done with l2r and we one of the major conclusions out that they are independent we haven\u0027t arrived at a full disposition on that but they\u0027re they don\u0027t have to be considered in combination which I suppose is a good thing and then in terms of where should L to our management be situated we decided that that should be in the application should layer and then ADA got 15 dot 12 the management functional block so and then we kind of looked over and tried to develop a list of generalized management functions as you can tell and 15 dot 12 right now we\u0027re really trying to get it fully organized and there\u0027s a I didn\u0027t include the the the detailed functional diagram but you can go find it on the I Triple E document server so in terms of data playing operation using 15 dot 12 we kind of work through an example based on six low I\u0027m won\u0027t go through this and you know haddassi him detail but this sort of describes the the flow through the system so we Billy could understand how the process worked and whether anything broke and you know I you know we think this is the general direction so if anything spots I mean anything haywire here this would be this or at least by September would be a good time to speak up in terms of the management plain operation we did discuss enabling configurations from the higher layer protocols specifically Netcom Co me and I Oct a control a need for remote configuration we discussed how to identify profiles so just this was a lot of generic stuff and then an eye chart for those of you in the back of the room we did have a number of accomplishments I won\u0027t say we completed a lot of stuff but we made a lot of progress on the ranging from ranging protocol modules the whole l2r piece the management protocols I indicated protocol discrimination entity the multiplex backs interface and then discussions on general architectures for a 2015.12.25 forces you see two blanks there but I\u0027m assuming Pascal you\u0027re in a couple of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:57",
    "text": "key figures as you were in this last stuffer or 6lowpan and 60-ish that has not been an issue so I just I don\u0027t know why Pat didn\u0027t put something in those blocks and we\u0027re gonna do a number of things in terms of looking at the functional block overview just making sure that we had and everything about each of those blocks and how do they work you know what functions are they including all all the stuff we\u0027ve been doing on all those other elements so like I say if you look at the diagram there\u0027s a rather huge number of functional blocks verbally now on LPW a I think the the biggest thing I really want to talk about they\u0027re just you know I think most of you are aware that in 802 15 we\u0027ve had an interest group which translates to above an IETF looking at lpw a sort of as a generalized thing as it applies to 802 seeing if there are other things with an 802 that might be brought to bear on the problem of low-power area so it\u0027s been a very generalized study it\u0027s not intended to replace anything there\u0027s it\u0027s looking for gaps and I think the most interesting thing that came out of Berlin meeting was we looked at and I say we I think you\u0027re you know did the majority of work on this various the suitability of various various aspects so there were modulation schemes forward error correction schemes connectivity Network topologies max schemes and encryption schemes you did a really nice piece of work there that may be of interest I think to people here and what I\u0027ll do since it\u0027s an extensive amount of work and no way can it be covered in five minutes it\u0027s very easy to go to the I Triple E dark server which is mentor and it happens to be document 17 - four five one so and it has all the links in it and all that kind of good stuff can you please take it very slowly so we\u0027ll make I would like this number to be captured in the mail okay so document 17 four five one this is an 802 2.15 documents I should actually proceeded with 15 - 17 - four five one so you\u0027re in the right place on mentor and if you\u0027re not a member mentor you just get an I Triple E web account you go on to mentor you sign in I authorize it you get the document so very easy to do lastly just a very quickly just a question is there any like what what is the license which I mean it\u0027s available for everyone right everyone oh can we can we publicly available documents can kind of just put it on your story yeah when you said when you submit a document you also there\u0027s the front page of that says you forfeit any copyright stuff and stuff like that says thoroughly open public document you have that nobody\u0027s permission I like this kind of culture right it\u0027s really good so that we can we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:59",
    "text": "can directly put it on in our in our document you know and then lastly we just finished 15.4 - 2015 but we already have five completed amendments we have a rollup so we\u0027re putting those together as a rollup but you know 15.4 has had growing pains and there\u0027s a number of things that still need to be cleaned up we\u0027re trying to be much more methodical on this go around and you know I know there are things that might be helpful as far as six - six low LPW a and this would be the time you know we\u0027re not this is not a fact we\u0027re not fast-tracking this we\u0027re really trying to assemble something that\u0027s it really corrects or or adds important things to 15.4 so this is this is just in the process of kicking off so if you\u0027ve got some stuff and you know something is going make sure you get those inputs in send emails to Pat Kinney whatever there\u0027s a number of mechanisms and if you\u0027re curious about any of it just send me an email at be highly at I Triple E org and I\u0027ll be happy to make it part of the process so that\u0027s it oh I think question Bobby she\u0027s not mine sure so so far 1512 considered 6lowpan because that was the only thing available and now for the most extreme cases this group is proposing check and I was wondering if it would help the developer and in which fashion to to have also shake somewhere in this picture of 1512 does it makes sense or is it really in the world how should that be could that be integrated and we had actually you know in a presentation and made part of you know just the material that goes into the document I said if there\u0027s a if it\u0027s enough agreement on it you know it\u0027s not a it doesn\u0027t take a you know a lot of effort but this is enough agreement on it then that\u0027ll move forward and could be included in the graft and stuff like that I can see that the application user now using 1512 and really 1512 selecting how it\u0027s going to compress by nanowire bears and while it\u0027s going and they see a lot of power in that just sometimes the computer okay the constraint is not really on the device wicket we can have this code in there the constraint is on the medium so but I have to choose the tool well but but the application should not have to care too much as long as there\u0027s an edge of the bandwidth that it can use right yeah yeah it\u0027s also by the way we why we separated twelve and four you know did just in terms of structure it lets us really add things and for that that that are consistent with what\u0027s already in the marketplace and you we don\u0027t so we don\u0027t break stuff and and and then twelve you know becomes a way of really adding to it a lot of things that were deliberately left out of the Mac to keep it light weight ok so then a follow-up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "question on what what you\u0027re saying and thank you very much that\u0027s really a great gradient piece of information do you think that\u0027s right it could be possible to write at the draft that is something like I mean contribution here yeah for creation here do you have something like shake over you know to that twelve and then that could be you know because this is basically device and cookie guys if you want to use it this is the profile yeah that would be very good yeah all that does we\u0027ll take that as an action okay that\u0027s that sounds pretty good okay and I just wanted to say hi to to Charlie thanks I just like Charlie Charlie fantastic thanks so much thanks.thanks things about this we can go for any other business we are straight on time perfectly on target we need to because we are very constrained okay so any other business anything you want to raise before we close the meeting then you just save five minutes of your life thank you so much for for for being here use it wisely yeah okay and if and see if somebody fair did not sign the blue sheet now is still time to do it no she\u0027s blushes blue sheets [Music] you "
  }
]