[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "it might be better if you lungo her first and then I follow him because I see my presentation [Laughter] [Music] slice your green I don\u0027t know I\u0027ve been a mustard something down here [Music] [Music] good do you mind just putting mostly quicker you know just just so many ways it green what\u0027s the projections of Greece but those two agree yeah it\u0027s all supposed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:17",
    "text": "to be right now but it\u0027s also on the meter code that\u0027s up here it\u0027s green but the monitor is fine right so you have the genuine is one over that this this one [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] okay so welcome to MPI three down in the dungeons I\u0027m chubachi and like her chose Sam Waldron Ignace is our secretary today so note well so this is the new note well text please take some time to look through it but essentially what it\u0027s saying is anything you say here is treated as a contribution to the ITF so be careful what you say alright administrivia so blue sheets are going around apologies so a little bit late because we didn\u0027t have any thanks Thank You Maya to invert again to get some note takers so it Lango is going to take the notes but he has to leave at some Ignace story it\u0027s going to say the notes diversity if you don\u0027t run it shouldn\u0027t if there\u0027s anybody else who would like to assist him then that would be absolutely great if you\u0027re taking your own own notes or anyway we would very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:19",
    "text": "much appreciate that please send them to the chairs afterwards if you\u0027re happy with that thank you so this will be a normal meeting again so we don\u0027t had any round tables as time as we have done some times in the past and please keep to your time slots so that we can keep the meeting to the agenda okay so a DM working group personnel changes so Aliyah is stepping down after term two terms I think as a reaching area ad so thank you very much early I feel your guidance and support and help with getting some really good results from that the working group in your encouragement to the working group so thank you and so Martin Figueroa is now taking over as our a new ad so you want to stand up so welcome Martin and good luck also Agnes has been our secretary for quite some time now has been appointed the obstet an OPS our ad and so he\u0027s stepping down as the nvo 3 secretary so thank you again for your excellent minutes know your help in organizing meetings and and other logistical things with the working group we will be looking for a new secretary because we find a working group secretary is very very useful so if you if you\u0027re interested in this prestigious role please do come and see the chairs afterwards or drop us an email we would very much appreciate some extra help with running the working group if you want to find out what being a secretary is all about there\u0027s some information here and obviously 2418 and there\u0027s also a draft which i think is expired now but there was a draft written on how to be a good secretary agenda ok so here is the agenda a lot of the the time on the agenda is taken up in sorting out some of the issues around security in and security requirements for draft genève so go big slots for that that\u0027s after our status update and then Greg is going to talk a bit again about the the overlay OEM header which was one of the outputs of the routing area are we on design team then we\u0027ve got a couple of other drafts new drafts individual drafts and then we want to have a short open mike about next steps and what would that to do next and get some feedback from you about what you would like to do next in the working group [Music] okay so milestones so this is the proposed this is actually the latest version of the milestones that I think we presented these in an interim meeting that we had in January and so I have updated these on the tracker document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:25",
    "text": "status so we\u0027ve got one two three four rfcs and we\u0027ve got a new RFC now since the last IETF which is the multicast framework that\u0027s 80 to 93 the split envy control plane requirements are in the RFC editors queue we probably should have the age back to the I Triple E on our progress with this they\u0027re in a ballot stage with the VDP document at the I Triple E and we received an incoming JSON on that which I sent to the list so the chairs are going to do a response to that but we would very much appreciate if you could take a look at that liaison and if you\u0027re interested and you want to review the PDP document from the I Triple E come and see us and we can give you the password for apps at the URL and password for access to that at the from the I Triple E server data plain encapsulation so we would ideally that\u0027s draft and Eve the standards track one we would like to ideally last call this after this I ETA F and along with that last call the NV o three and Capo draft which was the output of the design team that shows draft Junaid either at the same time or straight after the last call for draft Junaid it is somewhat dependent draft Geneva on US making adopting the genève security requirements document so hopefully we can resolve the outstanding issues with that at this of this meeting there is an ongoing poll for adoption of that document so ideally we\u0027ll just treat those any comments errors as part of that adoption process so that\u0027s drafter mg LT and vo through Geneva security of comments so please take a look at that one and comment analyst we also have a virtual machine mobility Protocol draft which has been around for some time now I think it\u0027s probably about time that we went to last call with that so maybe after we\u0027ve got was the work this drop shaniyah out of the way the bigger time to wrap up that okay do you do you want to say to me yeah well working other than nokia yeah I was wondering so we have this evpn applicability draft that you guys requested so I mean we should issue a working group adoption poll yes I agree with that yeah I\u0027m uh Nicole for that as well so I think Sam will manage that process the process and thank you okay so this is the incoming days and I just mentioned from I Triple E 802 at 1:00 so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "they have become the gun a sponsor ballots on a 2.1 qcy so that\u0027s the final stage of balloting for the draft so it\u0027s kind of similar to last call in the ITF I suppose and I\u0027d appreciate feedback by the 15th of May this year from n vo three participants on this draft and so please see the chairs for details of how to access the document do you want anything that yeah so I\u0027ll be retiring but we\u0027ll send a message to the list with the names of the editors and the you know 2.1 task group chair that\u0027s going to be managing this so that people can send their feedback to the correct email addresses and we would really appreciate feedback before we before we progress the sponsor ballot is the final state it\u0027s roughly equivalent to last call in IETF so getting close to done thank you hey now we\u0027re on to the session presentations so the first slot sorry sorry one more thing last time it really helped to get some people to actually commit to review if if you could ask for some people to actually yes that\u0027s a very very good point if you are would like to volunteer and be very much appreciated to review this document from the I Triple E either either just raise your hand now I\u0027ll come come see the chairs at the end I\u0027ll drop us an email soon yeah this this document is the is the control plane for this but NDE okay so I think next actually we\u0027re going to move on to the requirements security requirements document for draft Junaid and a way that we\u0027re going to run this is that Elango is going to do a remote presentation of his comments on the document which I think were posted to the list and then Danielle is going to respond as editor of the requirements draft security of Comus draft with an update on the status of that and how he proposes to resolve those comments so I know you\u0027re you\u0027re meet okay I think I need to push there yes are you able to see me yes we can see thanks we I just I think I bring out your presentation here all right thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:33",
    "text": "okay great we have it on the screen so just say when you want me to move on to the next slide I\u0027d so yeah I\u0027m going to talk about the you know the comments on the security requirements draft and and the comment says you know Matthew said that it\u0027s in already posted to the mailing list so this is a you know I\u0027ll have a summary of the comments that I presented I don\u0027t have to go through each and every comment in detail but the team of the comments and the highlights of the outstanding issues and how we are working with the authors to resolve this as we move forward next slide please okay yeah the theme of the comments is to focus on the potential security threats and in the requirements to migrate those tress I mean threats as applicable to genève deployments the key point is no genève can be deployed in multiple different environments example you can in deploy in a multi-tenancy environment it could be deployed in a private enterprise to provide isolation between you know multiple departments and so on and it could also be you know deployed in other you know telecommunications environment as well as for providing you know isolation and you know threats you know depending upon whether you are in a multi-tenancy environment or whether you are in you know private enterprise the the perceived or the potential threats you know could be different and how the the operator try to resolve those threats could could be different the document itself you know the security requirement documents will highlight you know the different potential threats that are possible in an environment and then the requirements also could be generic but then the user can can choose you know the requirements that are applicable to their environments so so the key point is not all data sent environments have all possible risks as highlighted in the document and so the reader should be understand that you know they will deploy the solutions that are applicable to their environment okay and with that let\u0027s move to the next slide we\u0027re on a next slide yeah so these are some of the outstanding issues that are being resolved I\u0027m currently as we speak so the the number one is actually data privacy the data privacy can be offered by a service provider or a tenant could bring their own you know data privacy policies the reason being you know some of the tenants like may not trust the underlyings you know service provider and what they might decide to do is to bring their own you know policies in order to do encryption and this could be done out there you know payloads or any payload that they puts into the underlying network would be you know encrypted even before it reaches the network virtualization endpoint so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:34",
    "text": "that\u0027s one one model the other model is like the customers might or the tenants might trust the service provider to provide data privacy as a service in such a scenario the service Florida will be providing that service and the tenant might provide data that could be on the clear or it could also be an encrypted depending upon how the you know how the tenant wants to present the data but irrespective that the service border will will offer you know data privacy as service and and that\u0027s basically what what we are saying is like at the network original endpoint depending upon the role it plays will offer this as an option or it could be offering it as as the one that and chooses to you know use it the second one is you know some of the stated requirements may not be applicable to Geneva transit devices this is the one thing that we noticed you know when we looked at the Geneva security requirements document there was some misinterpretation on the role of the Geneva transit devices and Andy and how the transit devices plays in the architecture so typically these transit devices are you know it could be forwarding elements like you know switches or routers that forward you know the Jenny trans genève packets as part of the underlying right so so easy is nothing different than you know transport any IP packets on on the network so Jenny was just going to be layer 1 one layer above that so there are some you know we need to reconcile some of the requirements in the document to be consistent with the Geneva architecture we have already reached out to these these security requirements draft authors and we are working to reconcile the differences and also some of these requirements you know like partial encryption where you know based upon that interpretation you know those requirements but written and I think we need to reconcile those ones as well we believe that the existing mechanisms that are already available could be could be used in order to address those threats are in order to address those confidentiality or authentication requirements and the next point is the requirements related to performance optimization we saw a certain you know certain requirements were related to performance optimization and what we are saying is now the requirements related to performance optimizations are necessarily not to address any any specific threat and so which means that those are more of a nice to have and not necessarily our security requirement and so example of those one will be like a foe based Daniel arity and the other one is like in our partial encryption so those are the things that you know we need to you know resolve that and make sure that some of these performance optimizations are not necessarily you know something that is an absolute requirement in terms of not addressing a security threat and these are something that we are still working with your thoughts on the other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:36",
    "text": "one is you know there\u0027s also another document on nvivo 3 security requirement that was generic security requirement that addresses control plane security as well as you know data plane security and that document also has a multicast you know requirements related to multicast use case and so what we were saying is you know Jenny is any not any different than that and so why not use you know why do we have to repeat that in in this document but again we do not know what the status of that in our document and whether we decide to you know progress that or not so there\u0027s another point is like if it is not going to be progressed as a separate document then in that case we need to you know make the genève security requirements as self-contained and we might have to bring in those requirement here and the other point we want to say in terms of multicast is you know many of the raw data center deployments the underlay Network doesn\u0027t support multi cast for example it doesn\u0027t support IP multicast in such a scenario you know what what the operators do is they offer you know unicast tunnels right so they use unicast tunnels in order to realize you know multicast over these underlying network so that\u0027s also a possibility in such a scenario you know all the requirement that are related to unicast all\u0027s I equally apply for the multicast you know need a separate multicast requirement and that needs to be you know clearly you know separated separately documented and that\u0027s pretty much what I have in the summary and we had few other comments but those are you know being resolved and we don\u0027t have any outstanding issues and so as a next step so what we are doing is we are working with the authors of you know the Jeni security requirements document and then we are you know trying to resolve those comments so so after the meeting we have some more work to do and then we will go and address that and and Daniel will you know continue with the presentation and then he he\u0027d talk about his document framework and you know what are the necessary steps he\u0027s taking in order to address that other these comments and thank you so much thank you so I think next to him we\u0027re gonna go straight to Daniel if the office responds to that hi everyone so basically I\u0027m going to provide the the author view as a response to a longer feedbags and how we\u0027re going to move to the document for what and how we can address his comments so the requirement document got two goals in fact one of the goal is to list any possible requirements so that if you want to design a generic security mechanism for genève we can address any kind of situations and this is the downside is that we came up into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:37",
    "text": "some somehow complex requirements but another goal of this document could be an easily achieved listing or a comprehensive list of requirements so that when you have a deployment specific deployment you know exactly which requirements applies to in your case and so in your specific deployment you might not use the generator geneva mechanisms but you might use an alternate way to secure the communications that\u0027s calling TLS or IPSec and the idea is to once you operate this kind of diploma and you can say okay I\u0027m feeding all these requirements so we expect that there is the awesome easy way to properly secure geneva requirements you know i\u0027m saying 90% of the cases but still if you want to have something generic we will need to add maybe another complexity which is not always required and so where we are with these two girls on there on the document we have addressed the first one but the second one is only partially addressed and this is what we have to work on so the reason I\u0027m saying it\u0027s partly addressed is that we already provided some some space to the policies what you really want to achieve so we detailed if you want to mitigate these kind of threats these are the requirements you will need to address but in a generic way I mean for immigrants so that you can fit this you can address the mitigation in any Geneva deployment so we need to add a clarification and for each requirements when the requirements apply so that\u0027s what we really have to work because deployments have additional policy for example do you really need to have a power flow policies or is your deployment have some janay of transit nodes and given those choice and those architecture deployment scenario you need to be really sure and the requirements should be explicitly provided given this input so the next iteration of the document is going to be specifying for each requirements what are the conditions so in a way so that you can read the document saying I have this deployment which or the condition I\u0027ll meet and in this case yeah what are the requirement that should fulfill to use that document to say my deployment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:37",
    "text": "is use is following the recommendation of RFC yeah we still hope it\u0027s gonna be an RFC so that\u0027s how we\u0027re going to move the document forward one point I\u0027d like to mention is that there is an already in a document about nvo three security requirements and the current document is listing a list of security requirements but because the additions are integrated into the requirements it\u0027s always it\u0027s often ends up in a may with the new well how we\u0027re going to write the RFC we\u0027re going to provide the conditions and given the conditions may might become a mess it\u0027s not inconsistency it\u0027s just a way we write so this is this is something we would like you to understand that\u0027s a fair way to do and it\u0027s just to prevent that we can we will be somehow back hired saying there are you can set in inconsistency between the two during dr. grant yes it\u0027s because it\u0027s the way it is written in that in the previous document I mean the entry of trade security requirements you will have the condition expressed above or below the requirement and then the requirement express that with an a because the conditions are not always applied in our case the condition can be clearly applied and then we might end up in another terminology with the current state of the document we haven\u0027t found inconsistency so I think where we work almost independently and then we match those requirements and we found that with overall we agree so well the questioner I will have maybe is do we have to to make this binding within the document or can we leave this document independent once questions so I\u0027m sorry I just don\u0027t know the points about a relationship to the the old NPI three security requirements document that was that was written quite some time ago and the authors haven\u0027t been active for a number of years now and that\u0027s been expired for a number of years so I really wouldn\u0027t tie this document too much to that one because it was never really progressed beyond adoption I think this this one needs to go forward independent they have that one so if there\u0027s think you know it there\u0027s no we don\u0027t know what\u0027s going to happen to that document if nobody picks it up and so on it may just never get published so oh yeah whatever you need for journey should be in the document don\u0027t rely on that document okay right okay so so well the important message is that we will not specifically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:39",
    "text": "focus on the justification and and rigor regarding the previous document but there is no major inconsistency we haven\u0027t found any and well the other thing we had some cozy some question but I think it has been answered is that some of the requirements are not specific to Geneva so should we left them into the document but since the documents are not going to be published my understanding is that we should integrate that into the current document yeah yeah yeah because we don\u0027t want to get to a situation where we can\u0027t have a mystery from this document when we publish try and publish it to the you know because that document does not being you know not being published okay so I think that\u0027s thank you we had some conversations with that you like oh so we\u0027re we\u0027re gonna clearly take in consideration the comments and we admit it of course we choose the to meet when we were very very different time zones but still it happened and we really know understand how to move next version should be I mean in my case I think it well there will be part of the process so the next version we gonna publish is going to be integrated into conferencing so quick question you plan to address the comments raised by Longo in the next question is it yeah okay you know when that\u0027s gonna happen I think now that we know how to address them it can\u0027t be here let\u0027s say I\u0027m not saying before the end of the month but let\u0027s say bye so I think the thing to do is to probably to publish a new individual document with incorporating them I know we do a very quick uh table from both of that new one because just bear in mind an adoption poll is really just saying is this roughly the work the direction of working group wants to go in is this the document about right for us and is this something we want to work on it\u0027s not saying that the document has to be perfect by any means it just puts the document into the hands of the working group so that then we have control over it and the the content of the document then has to represent consensus of the working group going forward okay thank you so the next version is going to be one or two and not zero zero that\u0027s my understanding yeah okay yeah yeah so any any other comments right thank you no thank you thank you can I go next we have Greg "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:45",
    "text": "Craig do you wanna make us why did you just touch so it\u0027s mentioned Ennis Terrace this is refreshing memory and introduce what work is done by overlaying design team and we proposed header that can be common and used in different overlay networks or om so it introduces the notion of early associated channel the overlay associated channel idea is that it will include oh yeah information and in normal condition or AM packets for active who I am will follow the same path as the payload if of course there is no consideration of the payload content to draw and transport decision so associated channel can carry [Music] information as for proactive and on-demand OEM and can allows us to do a separate development of Oriental set so the Heather is allows that versioning includes the message type length flex reserved and the next prodigal field followed by control packet so the requirements towards the overlay encapsulation that it contains all the information that needs to be for used for transport decision and thus or um packet or activecollab packet can be encapsulated in the same manner as they load flow so that we ensure that it\u0027s indent and then I can draw useful conclusion from there are REM results or status change so this is to demonstrate what and how overlay header can be used so if the next protocol unfilled is zero that will be used for active om encapsulation that we have overlay om control message and obviously it so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:45",
    "text": "is a test packet that being injected and consumed in overlay the main but if we use next protocol field that points to the type of your payload then it will look like this example and their payload can be data so this is more like a hybrid or am case scenario so insurance this is idea behind their overlay header and it\u0027s used in overlay networks for active and hybrid om we appreciate your comments suggestions and would like to ask our working group in chairs you can see there are working group reduction to adaption by the working group I think thanks Greg so just a little bit of history on this we did run a working group adoption poll a while ago on this document at the time we had really very little very few people very few participants on you know either we had basically a very few proposing the adoption and very few opposing the adoption on the list it was very difficult to jaja fellas really energy in the working group for for going forward with this approach given the lack of participation on the list for that you know for were against it which is why we didn\u0027t didn\u0027t progress it at the time I think it would be very good to see and get get some idea of people have now read this document and if they think we should go go forward with this approach if you don\u0027t think we should go forward this approach one of the issues that we\u0027ve got is there haven\u0027t been any other recent drafts with alternative OEM approaches and we do need to start considering OEM in this working group so you know we can\u0027t kind of just sit there with the only proposal and that\u0027s currently on the table saying we don\u0027t want to adopt it if there\u0027s no alternative being proposed frankly it\u0027s in the same vein what would help the document grakkus he would if he would add a applicability section I would state how that particular adarand might be just a couple of examples how that particular header would be slotted in with say genève GRE and the likes because what you have from a header perspective right now works well with protocols that have a next header flagged and that ACMA next header pointer is 8 bits if the next header pointer is an either type like 16 bits with GRE it doesn\u0027t actually apply so I think what might help is really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:45",
    "text": "outlining and showing how it fits in where it fits and where it does not fit so that people who attract it like ah this solves my problem or it doesn\u0027t really solve my problem and I think that way I think you get more appeal to people to care about it okay so are you suggesting that different encapsulations have different length of the next protocol field it depends on where you want to go with this I think that\u0027s the question on applicability right so if you have GRE then well naturally the next thing will be something either type and the next protocol field there would be a 16-bit field but I\u0027m just wondering so how does it apply where does it apply and outlining that in the document with a couple of examples how it fits into the variety of overlays that we have out there would be of great help yeah again I\u0027ll thank you for a comment and a suggestion I would definitely look at the document but our original goal was that to make it used in new overlay encapsulations as genève beer and NS age whether it\u0027s applicable to GRE is it required to be applicable and jerry that\u0027s something that definitely we should discuss well I think that\u0027s my point right so let\u0027s state that explicitly have a applicability deployment section and then I\u0027m going to say well this is how it looks in beer genève nsh and by the way it does not apply to jewelry in caps and collects well actually in in beer Anastasia and genève it doesn\u0027t look any different so I think I understand right whether it supports or not forwarding certain examples okay will definitely help in actually make it explicit I Brian why San Francisco um thanks for yesterday and I PBM we had a little discussion about this and thank you for pointing out the draft I\u0027ve read through it now I\u0027m just curious to know it does seem to be an inbound OAM kind of method except this is just the types of data specified as the time stamp only I was wondering if you could characterize me how this is just functionally different than the IOM working tonight PDF it\u0027s not quite understand I hit again I want to stress that in bad behavior of om is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:53",
    "text": "the function of encapsulation layer where draws they\u0027re forwarding the decision okay so if it draws only from the encapsulation information not from the payload then any type of om will be in bed whether it\u0027s hybrid or active and that\u0027s why we have special section on requirements towards encapsulation that in order to ensure that active OAM is in bed with the data flow that put certain restrictions on how their foreign decision should be drawn and one of the examples that we have here is example that how this type of encapsulation can be used for IOM again I want to point is that the format of the header is something that we we can discuss and try to address as many use cases as possible and just it\u0027s one more question since you put the slide up can you explain I didn\u0027t quite understand in the draft how next protocol field isn\u0027t NTP is suppose to have an IP protocol in it or is it simply as zero meaning there\u0027s nothing no data and one meaning that data following and yes and then you have to look at the first byte or something of that right or the first part of that header and figure out what it is Yeah right you\u0027re absolutely right because there has an egg and if next protocol is zero that means that you have only om control packet if you have next protocol non zero then you have something that follows the control tag and the next protocol characterizes what you have after the OM control peg okay I think I have to take that offline yes I still don\u0027t see it it means basic characterizes what\u0027s next right but next protocol there registry it\u0027s something that we can discuss how can they normalized named after Langer on the cube no no okay I will do are able to hear me yes yeah my my question is you know the om the proposal that you are having the header is applicable at different layers it could be at the overlay layer and also it could be if you are using it along with nsh then it is actually a part of the service overlay or you can call it as a service plane right so it\u0027s possible that both could coexist and the document does not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:55",
    "text": "necessarily give enough applicability you know information are you know how it will be used when you know if you need why I am at both levels it\u0027s very interesting perspective I would personally think that it\u0027s unlikely that the same packet will be we have four different layers not necessarily true right so for example if you take an essay Genesis could be transported on multiple different transports and depending upon you know what you know what is the underlay Network they might pick certain encapsulation and and and it will also go through multiple different encapsulations before it reaches the service nodes so in this in this case the om as part of the nsh header is independent of the OEM in the underlay or the or the overlay transport that is easy so both could coexist as well right I agree but I think that will be interesting helpful to get some operational consideration whether it\u0027s plausible scenario and use that one packet is who I am for Anna sage and underlay transport at the same time I would think that it creates some complexity for for localization in troubleshooting because how to identify where the fault happened it probably much easier if it\u0027s done on a different layers independently I knew you might have to give it some thought on this one because it can\u0027t happen at different layers and clarify that possibly in in a future version of the document okay so why don\u0027t you take that off now but yeah but I agree that intention of this construct is that it can be applied and the different layers but independent okay so why don\u0027t you take it offline with the lingo and can clarify our busy economy usually back to Frank\u0027s question on applicability if you really look at NS H so you are going to change the behavior of your SFC nodes on this or this is just meditator that sits in band that\u0027s transparent you have a service function under hand then you have the forwarding node it is going to impact the behavior of the forwarding node or the SF or it\u0027s all transparent now actually it should be again there if we talk about active OAM right so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:58",
    "text": "have multi layer active om individual document in SFC working group so the scope of it is as if SFF not the service function so therefore the forwarding behavior again a forwarding behavior is is based on SSB not on the service function okay and that the behavior changes are captured sorry I have read that the actual behavior of the forwarding node is captured or that is no they behaved will be the expected behavior at least the document introduces a cure request accurate why so that SFF can be addressed and either reply to the sender as expected out of bed great I\u0027m speaking as a New Delhi Sam quick clarification question so are you going to pursue this you mentioned different working groups like s of C so the clarification question I have is I going to pursue to get a common solution or are you going to pursue to have individual solution thank you if the working group and we had the discussion before so if the working group I would work in the current document and the header yes we have echo requests required document resulting from overlay design team as well but there are like the tendency between Heather and this work and if both documents would be considered by this in the or three working group and adopted our will pursue as a common solution but if not then will continue with the okay so let\u0027s get a show of hands for who\u0027s read latest version of this draw so please raise your hand if you have read this draft okay so it\u0027s probably ten or ten or twelve of those who have read it who think raise your hand if you think the general approach of having an overlay OEM header in so draft Ernie\u0027s it\u0027s the right way to go for oh yeah yeah that\u0027s one those who\u0027ve read it who does not think it\u0027s a good idea okay so so I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "going to assume that the rest of you are under some undecided in can criticize it yeah okay thank you please the rest of you please read the draft and maybe go ahead with some of the you know revisions that might help to clarify yes I\u0027d like to reiterate I mean I\u0027m really happy to see the discussion actually happening on om here I think this was very helpful this is something that the working group supposed to work on over four years ago it was something that needed to get done when I got became responsible idiot for the group so please we need this V excellence been deployed for a really long time and jean-yves coming and one of the value adds that the IETF is supposed to do his management let\u0027s get it right thank you sorry let\u0027s get it done best is not the enemy of the good thanks thank you I\u0027m substituting with the multi encapsulation interconnection destroyed machines about multiple in capture relating to interconnection in worship which arise overlay Network this is the first presentation and the job is primarily so you can interrupt me at any time and Trust if the background as we know that we have many overlay technologies such as bait we excellent cheeky you need a meaty REE et cetera and different vendor may use technical encapsulations saw the proper gains for a virtual network almost lack connect to the same virtual network and want to communicate to each other required to have the same didn\u0027t land encapsulation otherwise they will not communicated each other so we want to support micro micro encapsulation interconnection we suggest to introduce a new component in architecture the new component is we call it just just from our gateway and generally it is located in the year so we also create transformer and the E and T emanating at revelation and that he has been a highlight in weather with the rel bloodsucker tell me provide a great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:04",
    "text": "function for the to amis that may not show I want to communicate to each other so that hear me is is the most important component of Allah for this for such interconnection here we provide that ene reference model and in this model you in this model and I mean he won and he is reusing different encapsulation but they want to communicate so he a McGee is required to adopt him to the encapsulations on anyone in the ministry and so that it it can take the role of interconnection between me one and the history what 40 ma Yi is this procedure is he remain he will encapsulate the packets from one and then encapsulate the package to the Ministry with data flying in Amin Amin straight and the West Western with te interconnection for a mere 100 living history layers not needed to detect the difference of the artists plan and to support such interconnection and control control message also some have some requirements but here I am a year it didn\u0027t need to modify an MA the link operations is the pot and I mean into ma I mean I mean you will notify the adjacent mapping I just mapping between the enemy and it\u0027s attached yes as usual and you know teaching it we also need to notify the to emanate that encapsulation the MA I support an optional and I mean he also need to notify and maintain some is some mandate metadata and the formal nature and he is as usual that family will notify the reveal I just met information between the remote 11th yes okay as well any comments and feedback welcome and I will update the job based on hi Kyle arrows I\u0027m curious as to what led you to start working on this because I\u0027ve been reading a draft today sort of far off about it\u0027s a gateway function for Network slicing which I haven\u0027t finished yet so if I\u0027m misinterpreting it but it sounds like it\u0027s talking about a similar problem where you\u0027re moving between different administrative domains in an Fe Network and they have different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "capabilities different underlays things like that and there\u0027s a gateway function that\u0027s translating between now the document I\u0027m reading is much higher level it looks like it\u0027s not really specifying the data plane maybe there\u0027s some and it\u0027s for the comms off tomorrow so I was wondering if if this might be appropriate for that or if there\u0027s some overlap here that we wanted talk to the draft off their base I can send you the draft if you want after you mean hi exactly here monkey from our Mellanox I would like to ask just about one point I wrote in the document is that the team V can be combined as an envy she connected directly to the tears and the result wondering what is the reason for this I mean logically I think it\u0027s approach entity even if a vendor combines them logically it is still things as a team V as a logical component does not need to connect every change appears itself the T V T can be [Music] it\u0027s a transforming entity do something in the document it\u0027s explained that champions middle can connect directly to chess it can be named I know but I\u0027m saying that even connecting directly it\u0027s not it\u0027s like different logical entity Franco verse 11 I have another say high level question where do you want to go take that work because right now it\u0027s mostly articulation of the problem domain it\u0027s a bit of a framework document and you could say well I have this uber thing that provides for mapping and the likes and that might be OpenStack I might be something like um so where do you want to go take that do you want to go and specify the protocols to go and provide for these addresses or so what\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:05",
    "text": "next step that you\u0027re intending with this do you mean the protocol from notifying encapsulation but I think you articulated what you articulated in architecture you have a system that has two terminal types arriving at that worry at that very node today well I have a vehicle on tome coming in a virgin eternal leaving I have well a bridging function that\u0027s connecting those two yeah that\u0027s set up and I think what you\u0027re articulating is that someone you need to go and set that up control the endpoints and are you intending to go and standardize the control also do that or so once we have this what is the next step Gregg nurses tear as a golfer of this draft I yes Frank is right so this is a problem statement at this time so what we are looking for the feedback of the working group and discussion of whether it\u0027s a problem that needs to be solved how that will be what\u0027s a conclusion whether it\u0027s like adapt as adoption of this document would be agreement that this is a problem that needs to be solved if not necessarily that this document will be the document that will provide their protocol or standard part of solution but in a document we point to their areas that needs to be solved because there needs to be some negotiation normalization of what\u0027s different protocol capable of what features are common features and what can be translated so yes there will be some protocol or some negotiation normalization of the control plane in order then to be able to work on a data plane layer and I think Gregg that\u0027s part of the problem because we only really have one potential at the moment potential standardized encapsulation here we have of course there are many others out there in the wild and there are others have been developed and will may go forward as individual drafts but wait it\u0027s kind of you know in to working between our standard encapsulation and as yet an indeterminate set of of other ones are not standard yet or some of them as some of them are well understood someone less well understood that that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s why we\u0027re not going in the solution but first we\u0027re saying if we see this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:07",
    "text": "problem with the working group agreed that that\u0027s the problem worth solving and working on I mean at the moment we you know we have a framework are of say that defines the architecture ready and you know this is kind of an extension I suppose at least at this stage to that I think we we need to move on so the next is you know hello everyone so I want to introduce the packets three functioning that you give a overlay networks so we also have my colleague hydro online this is quite new draft and we were very appreciate for your command to help us move forward so as we know the congestion is a pillar of the network performance so are the two kinds of congestion seeing the data center network is a network congestion and endpoint congestion so here we want to so we want to discussing in network congestion that which is the caused by the poor traffic screen so paths in action that could be traded as a node that balancing issue and currently there are several load balancing technologists to resolve the network congestion problem such as the well-known ecmp flow left and a packet rate so we think that packet is currently the the smallest irregularity for the open system and but if we spray the packet into the different process that will lead the packets out of order problem so here we introduce a packet screen magazine which include is actually two parts the first one has packed a spring of the sauce and the end points and it\u0027s another is a recall reordering of the destination and end points here in that paragraph would could see that the first a staff the source end point will spray the packets on the different parts and here it\u0027s the layer 2 and 2 here cross network and in this scenario we do not need to modify the span switch and we just need to modify the leaf switch oh and here in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:13",
    "text": "this draft we use at Geneva Geneva and 2e capsulate the pact is sequence number and the on the second step the on the destination endpoint and we will do the reordering and either of the list then switch over on the server so for those as we know that would TCP has provided a reordering function but for those out an operating system or awesome circumstances were not used a TCP reordering so we think that a factory ordering is still needed in English in our rows and in this draft we proposed the practice ring format over Geneva and so in the option field of Geneva we use to fill one it\u0027s a flow group ID the other is sick number and each has were useful bytes and separately in different group ID that definition of that is that we we identify a group of flows use three couple between a source destination pair which is source address destination address and a floating ID and we use the next we will explain more about this field the second is sequence number which is its well known it ranged from zero to and twenty thirty to power of two minus one and if we do the practice brief function on the saucepan and point we we will use the fruit of ID to spray the parent strokin ID may in correspond to an individual flow flow or some subset of the flow or even all flows between the source destination pair but in this chapter we didn\u0027t introduce how to correspond the flow into different float group ID and so within within the group ID and there is a sequence numbers base and the source node will allocate the sequence number and to to the packets and it belongs to the same flow group at destination and here at destination point we were do the reordering in Windows three couple by the sequence "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:13",
    "text": "number and but here that we want to mention that the the destination should notify the sauce now that the capability of the reordering which means that the the negotiation of the capabilities would be take place and so the control that ma generic control plan is native to to realize this function so when when the sauce node know that the capability of the destination so they need to in tune to the allocation mechanism of the floating ID and if the fluid ID received on the destination exceeds the local capability here we recommend two ways to move forward the first one it just discard discard of the Geneva packet which exceeded the local capability the second adjust to remove the Geneva II capsulation and move the packet to higher layer to do the reordering according because the time reason we didn\u0027t finish all the simulation here just share the the performance comparison on the on the cactus green function and we were finished than the rest simulation and share with others later so here it\u0027s a tier 3 tier cross and topology and we use the the three call switch and the city to AB switch and the 32 leaf switch so here the traffic pattern is only use UDP because we want to get rid of the influence of the TCP retransmission and in the future we may simulate the new TCP traffic as well so based on the comparison that we then use a different load balancing regularity we could we use the parameter n so the the N power of two means the the granularity to spread to spray the packet so if the the N equals two label that means it\u0027s a packet of spray as a narrow if N equals two tell it close to to easy and P we compare the three factors through hood and packet drop and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:17",
    "text": "average latency so here is the the three seen arrows and the performance comparison that way from each comparison the four rounds with different random seeds and we could see that then the left left up and paragraph that and we could see that of the right point and radius point is easy NP that is M here get the worst performance and pack spray will get the higher throughput performance on the right up I refer of that and when we do the practice pre-prepared that the the traffic that a packet job is quite low and when we do the CMP the backdrops increase and about the dam origination see and we could see that easy packs berry can achieve the more better performance than the DCM he okay so next step the since it\u0027s a quite new draft and we want to see wall commenced and the more collaboration in the future work so we will continue the simulation and share with their emails or maybe the presentations next time and and if in the same time we will search for work with and other customers and to run a test on a real test bath that\u0027s all hi KY la Rosa thanks that was pretty cool I\u0027m curious as to why you put in a source part of the UDP header in the agent even capsulation did you put the same source work for all packets in one flow or did you randomize the source part as well so you would get distribution within the mesh so you mean in the simulation yeah calculation so you said you\u0027re using Geneva pray for the encapsulation yeah so the genève specification says he should put entropy into the source part of the you sometimes may be coming to talk here I\u0027m just so when you build the genève header and you put the UDP header that next part of it on the packet what value did you choose with a source port was it fixed was it based on the flow or was it actually something essentially random because you\u0027re allowing reordering within the network yes but we are considering to involve the node aware parameter but I guess what I\u0027m saying it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:18",
    "text": "would be nice to have some guidance on this and that drops because if you make it equal to the flow which is what this new specification says it should be then any PAC you know if all the packets end up going through one path at some point and there\u0027s congestion there they\u0027ll only ever take the one link but if you make it essentially random then even if they hit the same same device in the network they might choose multiple decks on that device yeah so just that might be something we\u0027re thinking about thank you exactly harmonic from our Millah knocks about two questions question number one regarding Zhaan means the document called packets brain I think sits back at spring it\u0027s just that can be at random it can be adaptive routing the document actually talks about rocket reordering well again I think that this Kyle pointed out tacit rule bidding may happen it\u0027s not the goal but the document defines a framework before handling packet reordering is that\u0027s the whole essence of the document regardless why the reordering has happened again my understanding of the document that says because of spraying water and milk may happen and that\u0027s how we recommend to handle the situation okay so it\u0027s not that we want to reordering ordering is a result of known behavior and this is proposal of mitigating this I\u0027m repeating myself so not to say it again okay another issue there is in Chapter five point three about TCP UDP over agentive I think it\u0027s a general infrastructure I commend this should be separate draft and it\u0027s been some circumstances and the there is no capsulation and we want you over the TCP directly on the Geneva and to save the Heather so we will initiate another draft about that so if you interested so so we\u0027ve got our measure as well on on the Mitaka I did open they open it for him yeah sure do you want to speak her okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:28",
    "text": "I think we\u0027re getting congestion yeah okay all right okay I think thank you thanks right so the last thing on the agenda is a little bit of time on next steps in the working group and moving forward so so I think we\u0027re quite close to it to working group a school with genève data plane security as well and well underway now so we need to really consider what what documents we want to make progress on next so we just had a discussion about om I think we\u0027ve identified some at least some ways to improve the OEM draft and that Gregg has presented the Ani VPN for our distributed control plane as we mentioned we\u0027re going to run a poll for adoption for the EVP on applicability draft after this ITF so that really leaves leaves open centralized control plane and all slash and management plane we did have a young model draft at one time for the X land but we also need really need a young model for genève I mean do more general kind of overall young model I think for configuring the various elements in the MVA three architecture so so we\u0027re kind of thinking one way forward this is to form a young design team within nvo three personally having been on on these young design teams in the past for getting young models done they\u0027re quite an efficient way of doing it so if anyone\u0027s interested in in participating that that would very much help the working group have fought in this area is anybody maybe raise your hand if you\u0027re interested in in in developing a young model for nvo three well companies nobody has been very active in other parts the ITF so okay if you have a think about it and she could email the chairs if you\u0027re interested of course this is more in the management management plane we haven\u0027t really focused very much on a centralized true-true centralized control plane yet so maybe we could\u0027ve address in that area as well oh yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:32",
    "text": "sorry I just like to face everyone you know so what are you all interested in working on is this just lets get Jenny you\u0027ve done because that\u0027s a great piece but we do need some other chunks along and we\u0027ve talked about doing getting model stuff if that\u0027s not the right management or or central orchestration answer for what you\u0027re looking for what is are the things that we\u0027re missing the Charter for nvo 3 is fairly old so what\u0027s missing obviously you\u0027re all here hopefully you\u0027re watching and being interested what are you interested in working on what do you see as gaps any any comments specifically I guess that you know thing I mean we know that we\u0027re missing young models but there\u0027s there anything else that needs to be done for a centralized control point I mean there is work going on for example in LS VR with a centralized control play model with using BGP and data centers is that relevant here any opinions would you like to see any work done in the env fear working group in that area please raise your and if you\u0027d like and vo3 to work on on a more dynamic centralized control plane than you would get through management do you see a need for that okay Matt have you got incoming routing needy yeah so seeing the overwhelming number of responses in Matthew so I asked a different question should I close a working group after we\u0027ve done to need so that\u0027s a report right I mean when we\u0027re done Junaid do you think we finished our work and we should close the working group please raise your hands apart from our okay yes Greg Minsky Ozzy and let\u0027s then define what it\u0027s done does it mean that genies specification achieves standard or our sea state or we\u0027ve done I am as well and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:34",
    "text": "Don yang model so I think that to me to say yes first I need to understand what means what done means so just an example for the yarn right no one in the room raised their hands right so do you like to see that complete as I individual okay give us to sleep on it okay because you know jumping the gun might end up the best at least with years that\u0027s what I learned and probably I would appreciate if we discuss really more seriously what burn means what the scope of the work we believe that will be a complete set of functionality that we can release to the world and said yes we done so I didn\u0027t raise my hand in favor of yang not only because I didn\u0027t want to get volunteered to be an editor but I just saw one document that discussed the potential new option virgin Eve headers and I in general I\u0027m not quite sure how you would go about defining a standardized option if we didn\u0027t continue to have some kind of effort at a yang model for the configuration of that would probably be a very useful thing so I guess I am sort of speaking in favor of seeing something done for centralized configuration speaking of Cinderella I also we had a good presentation from Frank on diarrhea so I\u0027m not sure if the draft authors are willing to pursue maybe Frank could speak up if they want to pursue that work I just have a question when you say when Geneva is achieved do you include two security mechanisms as well or yeah this isn\u0027t this isn\u0027t as soon as we published the genève RFC this is when we\u0027ve completed the things like the DOS plane security so I should have been clearer in that the document security in the OEM for for that I mean really the question is do we need to go further than that within a controller management play yeah Frank Roberson there is multiple aspects to om right so there is active OEM there is the in situ OEMs but some of that work is done in AI ppm not here but I would definitely think that it makes sense to go and at least create the big nor or continuing with the big-ticket items to make it a complete "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:35",
    "text": "protocol solution as opposed to kind of give up halfway because then you would very likely see another group that needs to at least do maybe call that genève maintenance then do that with you so I\u0027d also advocate for a piece that defines young models not that I\u0027m volunteering as an editor that would be useful would just ensuring OSHA with regards to young design team I was highly recommended everyone speaking of routing chair we had routing young you thank you for three years delivered great models we\u0027re shutting down actually this ATF but we\u0027ve done all the work we needed to and it\u0027s always good to get people of the main understanding as well as he understanding so I was highlight was to create one yes so sure just yeah drop us an email you may please email the chairs you can find that email addresses on the chart I think if you would be prepared to serve on a only yang design team that would be excellent thank you Bertie\u0027s outside net motor scares and potentially we could discuss people who worked in routing to start somewhere mater speaking again as incoming ad may I suggest that you relay these questions on the list to reach a broader audience yeah I think I mean something will bring it up in a routing area open meeting okay hey and with that I think we\u0027ve done just on time thank you very much for those who hasn\u0027t yet signed the blue sheet please sign the sheet "
  }
]