[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hello and welcome to ops area working group and the combined ops area here at IETF 105 in I\u0027m told you all bless you let\u0027s kick this into full-screen this is an official IETF working group meeting as such the note well applies I assume many people in here have read this thoroughly but if not I will leave it up there for people to glance at and be aware of how your contributions work here at the IETF so do be aware this is a formal meeting and the note well applies thank you I\u0027m one of your co-hosts I\u0027m Joe Clark TN Ren my co-chair here we are the chairs for the ops area working group session we will kick this off and we have a fairly packed agenda though not as packed as some in in the past the good news is we\u0027ve seen a lot of mailing list activity this time around we\u0027ve got some new adopted documents as well so we\u0027ll cover those after the ops area working group portion we will hand it over to our area directors to do the ops area portion of the meeting before we go any further may I ask for a jabber scribe a jabber scribe only and I\u0027m kind of looking at Joel yeagley over here in the corner of my eye Joel has agreed to do it that\u0027s fantastic in terms of minutes we do have an ether pad you see the link up there I\u0027m currently in it but what I did last time was I just transcribed this off the YouTube thing and that worked pretty well so I\u0027m gonna say we\u0027ll do that again however we would appreciate that if anyone wants to note something down in one of these sessions and one of the presentations please join the ether pad and Mark that in there so we can capture it officially in the minutes that would be fantastic you see the link to the slides there the slides are posted in our Genda are sorry in our material section for this meeting and they are in the order that they will be presented we have four remote presentations this time but the most I\u0027ve ever had is zero remote presentations so this is substantially more we\u0027ll see how that goes they\u0027ve all been notified we work with meet echo so we will will attempt to do the remote presentations when they come up have people sign the blue sheets I think they just came back up to the front if we need some blue sheet action Jian Ren will go and deliver that please make sure you sign so that we can always right size the room for future meetings any questions anything with the agenda what we are going to do is cover these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "documents where the status of our adopted documents are and then go into the end of the presentations okay so where we\u0027re at right now we have four one just got adopted recently for working group documents the TAC acts draft is gone through a round of iesg review the authors have replied to most of the discusses we are awaiting a updated revision of the tac-x draft I\u0027m told I contacted the author\u0027s they weren\u0027t able to do one prior to this meeting however they expect an update to address the discusses as have gone out on the mailing list in the next two weeks so we will expect to see an update then we recently adapted the network telemetry framework on draft that has become a working group document that\u0027s been presented here a couple of times the secure device initialization that Warren and others have written that was recently adopted that has got some good initial feedback and it might be in a fairly stable state so we would encourage all of you to read all of these drafts and comment on the mailing list and finally just last night I think the tac-x a yang module draft became a was switched over and this is a complement to the radius portion of the ITF system module to be able to configure tax server parameters and that will be presented the updates of that and some open issues and and requests for feedback from the working group will be presented this morning questions on that so as I mentioned we\u0027ve got ten I believe ten maybe only nine presentations nine presentations Thank You tanner um that will be going through today if there are no agenda bashers we will kick things off all right bow I\u0027m here to give some updates about draft ITF tacos yeah so this is as the chair said it\u0027s just a zero working group trapped and they love their changed right now is right now the TECO\u0027s young draft is only contains the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "tacos Tess oh here it\u0027s a yeah just a little closer so people can hear okay so right now the tacos plus only contains TECO\u0027s client parameters here is the tree structure of the tacos class young right now for this version and this version we address the comments from the Middle East and now like the like the sauce interface and vrf interface right now this is the edit since last meeting for now there\u0027s still some issues here the first one is the down Rev TECO\u0027s protocol it\u0027s now as the chair said is under the ISD and but it the tacos truck prodigal right now is information mock draft and will be published as information I\u0027ve received so our job is too dependent on this protocol so we see the comment from the melon is that it from idiot he proposed to discuss it in the working group so he he he said that we should be that the ad knows that and should approve this it\u0027s okay then the next one okay can I just real quick on on this Ignace one do you see any issues in insofar as this draft configures the server parameters for tax if this is a down ref as all yang modules that I have seen have been standard documents or standards track documents so would this be a an issue it knows what Vilnius probably not the fact is that most of the modules are defined for the standards tax protocols and the tactics is informational so that is the source of this okay I wouldn\u0027t see a problem as such the next the next issue is the also from Elliot that since the working group may have the plan to define the takos plus plus like TRS extension so maybe that extension will affair affected that a whole the TECO\u0027s young model structure so here we think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "there could be two options here because one is that from the chair that Joe proposed to will be do another augmentation or next release of this draft to address the TRS extension later and the other choice is the we can leave transfer choice for flexibility in a young model so like to hear what the working group think about this feedback on on this item Ignazio Donna\u0027s right now the document that is being in energy relations about tactics the work on what is beyond the tax with different transports and extensions that\u0027s obviously it\u0027s not chatter it or is not happening that was an agreement that the working group first pushes the tactics tactics flow and only then the new work over the new item starts and now are you certain that the way how you model the the TLS extensions were that will be what the working group wants to see from a transfer perspective for the new attacks or for extended tactics this seems a little bit kind of timing wise premature okay I\u0027m not saying that this is the wrong way to do things but in my view the work on the follow-up of attack tactics protocol should happen first and then the Halloween okay I speaking is just a contributor I agree I think the it\u0027s it is the seems premature I would I would just say when that work happens as that work evolved that might lead to an augmentation okay the the other issue is also from admin he haven\u0027t actually proposed this comment at their first the beginning of this draft young because I think right now the system model already defined the the like how to use the local authentication and together with radius and tech Hawks no not include TECO\u0027s but we propose that echoes tech ax plus young model so this should be also be considered to be integrated into system young model so right now although we already defined Atticus client but we still need to define the system authentication extension to include the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "Texas authentication methods in it so for now we we don\u0027t have the think out solution to address that I think it needs to be a dropped to address this like a systems and triple a draft to do another augmentation because I think there\u0027s also a comment from radius extension working group they they don\u0027t like the system Triple A just include the tax plus of authentication they want to have whole if if it\u0027s a triple a system triple a draft but I also think maybe we can add a section to give example for like what will the system authentication would be like if the tentacles plus would be added into it so right now I I don\u0027t have answer for that so I think it\u0027s belongs to Opera\u0027s area so I\u0027d like to hear the eighties gospel donors what am I thinking for this is a sort of a simple change do it here and well as you call it an example section going a net mode way and publishing a draft which changes one line there as think it will take free by DT of cycles and that will result in probably over engineer system this is something like a point fix especially given the discussions about the versioning and changes of the models themselves possibly taking them out at some point of time away from an RFC publishing process this seems to be a more technical way so do it here in from that pot okay they own the system document but it seems to be more practical that this assault here it will simply be faster okay so I would choose that the second one okay I also had the comment from the John Hursley he his he said that the current TECO\u0027s counter include the not include that connection opens count but for like single connection case then the TECO\u0027s connection may be more than one session so maybe we can add sessions count so I also like to hear more comments from the working group so can someone oh I think it\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:24",
    "text": "like detail one I will yeah just speaking as a contributor I think that makes sense yeah sessions counter makes sense to me at least okay I will add this one to the update dropped so that\u0027s all this issue is related to this drop right now so I will resolve the comments from because John has me propose a more editorial and also some technical drafts comments from so I will next up I will resolve these comments and together with this issued proposed so I like to hear more comments and suggestion from the working group so that\u0027s all furthest thanks I would say we\u0027d all like to hear more comments as well but it sounds like you have another action to at least handle the initial authentication piece as an augmentation here we\u0027re whether or not another draft about a more fleshed out Triple A happens that could be proposed but seems like that\u0027s another piece before we can we can keep progressing this okay I will good mile on that Oh any other questions on tack x+ yang module module okay do we have any time so Ignis has asked do we have any time line win I just - you the primary editor slash author what do you think your ETA is on the changes that you want to make oh I will within the two weeks and we will update a new one so that\u0027s in two is I think after that it feels like it\u0027s it\u0027s getting - it seems like a fairly straightforward yang module reads that way to me we\u0027ve taken out some of the triple-a stuff I think we would be ready to move to last call unless there are any blocking issues that come up on the list I think as well no in fact that was my question it\u0027s not about when to publish the next version but when you believe that you have addressed the community comments and socialized that with the user base and you will think that this will be done so in a sense when this model can be considered stable and shipping I think right now our product already support this in our so I think it\u0027s and also we take in count of other vendors comments like from Cisco and I think it\u0027s quite stable "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:25",
    "text": "another yep I think so this draft is about sd1 service delivering model and right now it\u0027s a the first version of in the video one and so I just give a brief in description of what it\u0027s Estevan service model is so it\u0027s this SQL service is a connected connection service will be offered between one two or more sites across this is all customer sites and could be use a one or more underlay networks and what this model for we think the it\u0027s just a further service crud service provider scenario and that this model is used for service providers service box traitor to dynamically create modified the as divine service components the components could be like at a new site or an a new VPN connection between the sites and also at some applications ala C component so things last IETF meeting we have such changes and first we have a new co-author chose a co-chair is chairing the muf application community and sd1 project is under his lead so he\u0027s very familiar with SQL service staff manager so we with his help we make the the sp1 and EF as to UM project alignment with this draft we added the mouth related references now enough has already published its dropped specification about SQL service attributes and we also add the terminology comparison because in that way our draft is more will be more easily to n standard by the ITF traditions so this is a main changes and we also made the whole editorial change the entire trapped to be better aligned with math project and readability and besides all this we also highlight this ice as divine application based policy service sayings as Devon it\u0027s quite "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:25",
    "text": "different with a traditional hu huiqian and our European it has application based multi pass selection feature so there\u0027s a lot of policy related this this multi pass selection policy so this is the main changes and they also add a section to - hi elaborate what\u0027s of difference with the OSE draft it\u0027s proposed being RTG WG so that\u0027s a them the elbow changes and for the OSI model difference here is the major difference the major difference is our SD one service model which is a quite high high level interface to the customer we its upon the users or request service will do some infrastructure service like sites connection and also application policy this is it\u0027s a very high level one for the for this model it will not be aware any like real underlay resources here but for OSE model the assumption is quite different they the field Estevan infrastructure service is just a within their wonder domain as d1 managers a scope so they don\u0027t want to touch anything about the sideway peon part they just want to do the OS e gateway service between the two domains so right now they have the OS e gateway service model and they also but they also have a past service very symbol of is as d1 our model is application policy but they just touched the application SL a based a policy that\u0027s because the because across domains inter domains there the need to make the different domains have the consistent policy in that way the SOA can be guaranteed across the domains so this is a major difference it\u0027s the OSE dropped so now I think I changed to both of you Aquarius the difference the two models the Aquarius difference yes I am part of the other drafts ah sir so we hope that the disrupter has two components so it can easy be understandable okay thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:27",
    "text": "and for right now I think they\u0027re the drugs open this issue may be the first we think whether because right now Chow\u0027s it\u0027s already the co-author of this draft so we would like to hear whether the working groups think this is enough for the math working project alignment so we like to hear whether because in that way we can update the draft so Charles can propose a changes to the math community to ask the comment so I think in this way we can make the a better alignment with the two standard edition yeah Charles cycle so um you know I have been working with within meth they\u0027re aware of this work that\u0027s going on the one thing that makes it a little bit tricky is you know meth is more of a closed membership-based organization right so a lot of things that happen in meth are by default private to the members and it\u0027s you can make effort to share things like not just to be a liaison but there\u0027s other mechanisms to so but the you know so doing the work within IETF and then coordinating back to meth just makes things easier because in IGF everything\u0027s you know open kind of by default so in terms of layers on though are working with meth are we comfortable with just sort of this informal you know I\u0027m working in both I think there there\u0027s other people who would be working on you know in both communities or do we need something more formal you know that\u0027s kind of the question here Donna\u0027s a sexually question channels to you draft board is coming from my own oxide how much of the coordination is happening between no noggin meth on their requirements side so I\u0027d say you know that that\u0027s that\u0027s evolving I\u0027m not active in Oneg but my understanding of the history is that meth anona I kept not been able to work together very well them both coming into IETF with drafts has kind of helped force some interworking it\u0027s not a done deal but one of the things that looks quite likely now is that both will be worked on within meth because if you look at the overall meth architecture there\u0027s a lot of the first draft that we\u0027re doing now is from a subscriber to a service provider but there\u0027s also within math service provider of a service provider interfaces which is very similar to what a vendor to another vendor would look like which is what the OSE draft is doing so meth just hasn\u0027t gotten to that yet it\u0027s not that they don\u0027t plan on doing that so it would fit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "very nicely into the Islamic architecture and I think methanoic seemed to be they\u0027re still discussing but it seems more promising that they will work together on that and perhaps by both being in that to be determined but so I think for the OS e estimate dropped I think in later Oh in the future we we should align the terminology of the two drops I will relieve the working groups comments to to Steve because he\u0027s not here at this time at IGF so and I also propose using like grouping statement on the component model component to allow reuse like the site VPN application policy grouping so in that way maybe this two dropped will not have too much overlap with the modeling so that\u0027s so I like to hear they\u0027re working groups and thoughts on on this I before or if anyone is going to come to my question maybe you know maybe you don\u0027t what is the routing working groups thoughts on this on this on their ground is that is that going to be progressing forward what is their intent with that work I think from the medallist Karen asked this question Steve but Steve\u0027s think there\u0027s because they think they rely on the routing areas expertise on the like inter-domain like different options configuration so he prefers to RT gwg but I I I don\u0027t tell him further about what\u0027s our like this our SD one motto is if it\u0027s will be doing work here so I like to here maybe we can like a presentation doing some presentation or getting comments from both working group and to work together yeah I I would like to see personally see as a chair more the discussion where where does it make most sense for this work to happen where do we have the expertise because it sounds like the coordination with the other stos is useful especially bringing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "parties together here at the ITF but where do we have the most likely chance of making this work successful yeah okay actually for OSC Yamamoto chapter actually what is the progressing right now we didn\u0027t do too much updated besides the terminology alignment so from also point of view we don\u0027t we don\u0027t have a strong opinion for this charter where we which working will be right place the duties reveal this to the chair you to decide this business book donors as divine itself is not a technology component it\u0027s it\u0027s a mix of of separate technologies bundled into something like a product an idea doesn\u0027t work on that idea works on on specific sub components of this based on a guidance coming from oh not from a from from some other entities in the industry therefore with this for me personally it\u0027s a question whether we understand the requirements of what need what needs to go into the modeling here the other important aspect is that even if we are talking here about a service model the service model eventually has interfaces to the technology specific models and that is where the biggest gaps I at this time if we are looking into the security side the situation of the modeling various is quite a sad if we\u0027re looking into route inside that situation is quite good but again in order to practically be able to use this divine as a service those components need to combine therefore and I\u0027m just now thinking aloud you know the service modeling probably would have more experience if that is done outside of the idea Annika math probably and IETF here in this case is an owner of the youngers and modeling language and the guidance of how that should be done the technology specific components which are not in scope of those drafts which are happening there are some documents elsewhere probably are within the scope of IETF and not an OPS a WG but in the specific working groups focusing on a technology routing tunneling IP second things like that yeah and this question is raised from a practicality perspective yes as Devon is fashionable buzzword these days and therefore it attracts attention an idea the question is what ITF has sufficient words to say for the community of the users that let\u0027s look realistically as the run is not being standardized in IETF and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:28",
    "text": "another thing as divine is not something to standardize this is a collection of technology components and that work is done outside of idea I think this is a requirement from math and math has already defined the service and the we just IDF we just help math to design that they can data model and that is perfectly fine if this is done in the context that I is source of guidance on how to design the thing if we if we are certain that we have enough of a requirements and that model will eventually match what they expect and will be usable yes fine let\u0027s do that otherwise if this is a situation that the IDF is trying to tell the operations community on how this should be done on a parade that probably it\u0027s not the right way of doing so so I think the answer is we are not going to describe the requirement or define the requirement in IDF we just use the requirement from math right so Charles are called Neph 70 the dock that\u0027s already referenced here that that is the requirements for sd-1 now that\u0027s a Memphis decided that if you made it publicly known that they\u0027re doing a phased approach there\u0027s already a phase 2 which is going to add more capabilities kind of more details into the requirements and the specification of the service there\u0027s almost certainly going to be a phase 3 rather than wait and try to get everything MF wanted to bring this to you know to mark it and make it public as soon as possible so they\u0027ve decided to take a phased approach so these requirements are going to continue to expand I guess so what our current approach was yeah let\u0027s just reference the publicly available specifications and make it an IETF draft otherwise we could do the yang modeling work within meth but then we would just really rely on IETF expertise to not only review and comment on it that\u0027d help us maintain alignment so that people that try to use the meth service models and tie it to you know the technology and the underlays that are actually used that that that could be a straightforward type of thing so you know method need help with that because what I\u0027ve seen with meth models in the past is they kind of sit out on their own and it\u0027s hard to figure out how to make use of any ITF models in combination with them yeah yeah I see this is a good cooperation between math and ITF so what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "else again that needs to happen but how best to do that whether to do the yang models here or in that fight I honestly don\u0027t know I just want to try to give the two groups to cooperate more and and the one thing that makes me think ITF is better is that working on these things in the open in ietf again is the default whereas in meth I\u0027ve been trying to make meth more open and put out early versions of things and it\u0027s possible to do that it just it\u0027s a little bit more painful and there will be some lag in between when the working group within meth there don\u0027t kind of bless iterate like periodic versions of the document to share probably yeah yes I understand I just try to adjust eagerness question as well Dawn\u0027s and well this is one of the worrying aspects from eyesight Charles you say periodically does this mean that this this set of drafts right now or focuses on phase one and nothing more and once they have the required if you are working on the requirements for phase two that will be a set separate model and not just iterative the endless work on this model here yes so as I mentioned there is already a phase to document it\u0027s going to be MEF 71 it\u0027s already started and they\u0027re almost certainly BMF 72 that\u0027s just the way meth rather than du bist versions that\u0027s the way math does it only this time they intentionally said specify just you know I can MVP type of thing for SD land that\u0027s enough 70 knowing up front that they would immediately start am f 70.1 and that\u0027s the way they\u0027re working on this so it\u0027ll continue to add additional SD when related you know service functionality into it not only that but to start to work on other interfaces just this is just one interface as image and this is the interface between a customer and of subscriber right there are gonna be sorry a customer and the service provider though will be interfaces for service provider the service provider and then also north/south interfaces within a service provider where hopefully we\u0027ll be able to leverage a lot of ITF existing yang models yep you allow a chance to add to something here actually I think that the collaboration between Amy and I idea should be encouraging we\u0027re already you know do this besides the Charles look at in BO and we also have our colleague on in that number actually get engaging this sty activity in amiable happy to coordinated between a Mia and I have an iconic the new also you know came to check out this Mei progress to make sure online so I think it also we also hear "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "there\u0027s some requests from Mei they really want to see how to map you know services there were technicians with online technology so they look into some phone interface of box trailers so they trying to you know want to get help from the ITF so so that\u0027s why we see if this is something we should you know giving to clever ways muf thank you um thanks we\u0027re gonna have to take I think we should keep having have this discussion and ask the pointed question on the list because we are running out of time as to what what is this work interesting here and I\u0027ll I\u0027ll take an action to start that discussion on list so we can capture some more of these comments okay is there well is there any interest in in this room then of taking up this work of continuing this work for this model in ops AWG onto a few hands well more hands keep going I guess maybe if I wait long enough okay do people think this document is ready for adoption then by the working group in its current state less hands but not zero I think we\u0027ll take it to the list and see what what the list thinks we definitely want to hear more comments but we\u0027re gonna have to move on Thank You Mel I\u0027ve just been notified that we have a little bit more time from Warren our next presentation will be remote so I\u0027ll ask Oscar are you there yeah I\u0027m here can you hear me properly we can hear you perfectly can you hear us yes I\u0027ve been hearing you all the time so yesterday I had a good experience with routine working group so it seems this remote presentation works good and even I can see their eyes in the room now okay can you well yesterday one couldn\u0027t interrupt remote presentation so hopefully it sounds like we can talk back and forth great so all your all you okay so I\u0027m gonna do a presentation today of the layer 3 VPN network model that we submitted the first person in May and recently we submitted a second version it is an initiative by a bunch of operators who we are trying to we were trying to implement the automation of layer 3 VPN and we took as a starting point the layer 3 SM and we found some things to implement so this is why we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "were pushing for this network model so next slide please so we\u0027re gonna see why do we need a new network model what have we found missing so far in the threesome which are the approaches that we can follow to do this work some modifications I think I don\u0027t mind not gonna enter into the modifications really in detail you have the draft - and the document and the young model to go through them if needed and just focus on the open issues and get more feedback from the community so next slide please yeah so first of all why do we need a new model ok so there is currently an VPN service model the l3 SM and it\u0027s a very good model and we do think that it is a good model to be used in the communication between the customer and the network operator so we believe that for that kind of communication it\u0027s it\u0027s ideal ok however as it is always seen from the customer point of view a it does not enter and it should not enter into some parameterization of the network resources also does not enter into for example identifying really the PE or the real port that we are using in the in the operators network so this is why when implementing it to be used to what our automation tools call it some people call it as being controllers and people call it network restriction there are several ways of using it in the just in yesterday\u0027s presentation in Ratan trillion working group we explain the different architectural options or how this model will fit in the different architectural lectures but basically this is the or this model would be the peace between the service orchestration and then network restoration part okay so it\u0027s once you have received the drink was from the customer and then you are able to do select which are the real impose from where the service is gonna be used and it you need to define resources then model is used for that part okay and this is where we are implementing it in in telefónica and also other operators plan to implement it in that part okay so please Nessus light please so here I\u0027m gonna just describe very briefly some scenarios where the there were some gaps with l3 SM so for example one of them is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:32",
    "text": "specific P identification points also details about the bidders we think that the keys are the the bidder that are the physical connections to the to the piece so specify which is the encapsulation so in our use cases we have a wide variety of l3 VPN starting with different kinds of encapsulations so we also need to be able to inform about which are the list of available beers per site so for us even for both for inventory and for medicine purposes it is it is needed also we have found use cases in our network where the trend is remote so when acid water stitching the l3 VPN also we need to cover a use case with it so that is we need to split layer 3 VPN into several domains you know when orchestrate his resources in different domains and also related to his multi-domain be able to configure what we call the VPN nodes which would be like an abstraction of the of the BRF so just take into cannot here we are adding two device conflation okay we are describing here the cells as a whole in the in the network way and also we found that the room for some more a routing protocols between C and and so please the Nexus knife so I just want to discuss one of them which is that so we had our original approaching the zero zero version was okay go for the augment approach okay let\u0027s take the three same an extended to with what were off we found missing okay then we realize that there are a lot of things from the sir is modeled the customer service model that we no longer need they were used in the service orchestration face to make them some decisions and then okay once not made we don\u0027t we don\u0027t need them so then we think that this is a better and when we requested for feedback in the main in this people said okay the prune honest approach might be better so is okay I start with and 3sm remove what is not needed keep everything related to the service that we need to maintain it to to pull down and then augment whatever is is needed we know that this might take a long time this might take more discussions in IETF that every SM was even now working group itself or whether it might have some family thing as the kind of augmentations and won\u0027t be hopefully not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "too much I think we can this is a button approach just in the image we need to define what what do we need to keep yesterday there were some suggestion of keeping some information just as optional not mandatory to who sit down okay so this is light please so with the pronoun next and approach we can we have tried to preserve as much as possible del through the same structures or within the l3m we will have the VPN service on the side with the list of bidders and inside and add some profiles associated to this VPN nodes so not entering too much more details for that we can discuss it on the list so please next slide so how does it up to the network deployment so basically with having a net worth of call as a collection of bees and in that collection of pieces well we will say ok and we\u0027ll ask the PPS node - yes and the bidders will be the physical ports that connect to the piece and these builders can have a several connections over day and these connections to the to the side to the customers are at the side network access so this is how it relates of Icarus this sim or the connection between the customer side and the he goes to a set of switches and what you do is some different levels of encapsulation or as we mention earlier it\u0027s a silly wire to the ultimate basically this is a the main the main concepts ok so just we keep the site as a logical structure say ok this is our some remote location will be connected here so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:40",
    "text": "so this is where we can put the resources so for example the artists artists so for example we have observed in many services in telefónica that the same RTR D is used in all the locations so then we can we can put it here in this profile and associated to a VPN no so then we do this a location on the on the USS level and we pass it today to the model and then this is in further taking down to that otherwise model also for example in the in the side what we have for the facade is the the bitter so this is the list of bitter that are associated to that side okay so for some before that for some customer okay you are using this specific bitter and in the Senate were actually have the pointer to that bitter okay so if you go to next slide please just gonna go very quickly next slide please okay so here in India top we have a least most open issues that people have identified in the many so we have it open it as an issue in github just to be able to to track it and now we have already solved two of the history issues and we still have some some open open points so for example how to link the network service young model with other modules for example the topology I am assuming that the net water orchestration London will controller can expose a topology and this topology it contains the PE so maybe it\u0027s easier that we can just do a live reef from the network service model to those nodes in the topology for traffic engineering the result Radian initiative in in TS to map the service to the to the set of tunnels that might composite so I think if we go for this approach we need to link with that work and also the composed opinion which goes for more complex multi operator VPN scenarios so so far we have received good feedback on the main in this from operators and people do not potentially can can implement it we have a set of vendors that have their implementations of going of this model so we can take it to to the network so we think that this is a topic that it is in the scope of the ITF and we\u0027d like to continue working on it and we plan to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:41",
    "text": "post a new version just soon just fixing some some bugs and keep collecting more and I would like to hear also from from you how to move forward these this work and it\u0027s interesting for the community so thank you very much excellent comments quickly on on this the l3 network model iOS card assists but not less so thanks for his work it\u0027s always great when ever we have operators coming in finding feedback on the service models and yes sometimes our iteration on service models so my only question is so those were also operators who came and getting a service model the first one and they were also from orange and kdi and Verizon if you get their feedback on what you\u0027re proposing here a yes I got the feedback is what that the imitation who was aimed at creating the service for the customer of the from the customer point of view so so I think their focus was not exactly they say as as the model so it was like in a higher level so I think that the uses of these models are at different steps in the chain within an operator thank you so I have a question for the room do people feel that this work is valuable to do here in ops AWG substantial number of hands went up okay III think Oscar you had a you you gave yourself an action item to update you you\u0027re gonna update this draft with some of the open issues I was looking at your github you\u0027ve got a few of them there I think do that and then we can decide to progress this for it it sounds like there\u0027s enough interest in the working group here and we\u0027ll double-check on the list to keep this work moving forward an ops AWG okay figure too much Thank You Oscar and from my first Renault presentation that went surprisingly well so clear well the next three are going to be disasters yes but I hope that next time I\u0027ll be in Singapore so I can make it on site okay good morning everyone this is Hugh I\u0027m here to discuss the framework for automated service and network management we see young actually these topical actually we set up the side meeting to discuss this so we will bring "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:42",
    "text": "some feedback so this is also loose we actually work together with the many operator on these workers so go back to the goal and motivation we sink RINO ITF developer huge amount of young data model how this model can put it together integrate together in the same namespace so this is something hasn\u0027t been documented anywhere and so so the goal of this you have to actually try to you know come up with it\u0027s a young auto architecture for service management and network management and and what we really like to do is to come up with its common functionality and a framework to help to build this for a young baseless system and in addition we want to provide a kind line how do you you know to to to put a young model at a different layer together to deliver a service and also for its kind of service in enforcement but the we cannot boil the ocean so really this work actually you know focuses on the young Taylor motor integration at a different layer or in the same layer so somehow work actually we already have some many needed caching or we get a feedback from some operator we single we want to you know know to put everything in this draft so first up actually whether we should list all the llamado divine idea for in this job actually that\u0027s not our intention because it\u0027s a it\u0027s very challenge we in memory all these young data model also maybe we have as a yamaraja beverage in other SQ how to you know put all these together so it\u0027s not a reasonable so we don\u0027t cover first piece second years to any need to pry inventory of the tools or mechanism actually one of the example is we have many OM tools or mechanism and but we think this is not the folk of this worker this book just focus on Youngjae the model in equation I think a tool chain is very important but we can leave this out and and to more focus on the younger the motor integration also you know in a society meaning we really want to address use kept kept up between ITF Yamamoto and operator really operate the requirements actually but we think put this kind of gap adoption in this job - also not a reasonable so we DVDs out and another comments actually from operators ease we talk about whether we can provide young Vinney motor registration we single already I do have young catalog effort they actually can help operator to figure out how to select the model when they deploy the service so young catalog "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:43",
    "text": "can be a good tours to actually has these kind of issue so we\u0027ve this out also because young to the model you know many as thought use is so increasing model in across the SDO actually this is something very useful i I think the weight on one companies so status update actually we present this job in the last idea here meeting him in of office area and rotting area and a solitary feedback from the operator and implementer and we actually based on OBS double-teaming in is discussing actually some commentaries by the show and and some other vendors and we try to address some of the the issue actually so when maker actually to revision in them in a previous revision there were four actually we charge your chairs that your comms and other vendors comments and to try to clarify the module position and a young catalog and also we actually work which out of the operator team actually get a lot of feedback the all of them actually many of them actually integrate interesting in how to integrate a young data model in a same namespace so so we added several new car car sir actually from from operator actually and we also you know clarify the scope who tried to make it more focused yeah that\u0027s the change we made and a quick rapid data for the side meeting actually they started meeting actually organized on Tuesday morning and and and we invited many orbiter also we socialize this sunny meeting through the man in East and we make it a public on the side meeting wake up Asia make it official so the goal is trying to just cause a gap between ITA moto and in that Chinese and see what is the right venue to discuss all addresses kappa so this job actually try to cover some of the pieces try to address this gap how to do the younger model integration and so we you know work with china mobile and also telephony car and for these represent a young lady motor frame walker and also China Mobile presented the promised space and the Colonel\u0027s were young they the model and and telephony campus and their use case and requirements so we get a lot of discussion and so here we listed the meeting Matt here in a minute so you can take a look at that so the outcome actually we we feel actually you know people agreed that\u0027s there\u0027s a game actually these guys need to be addressed and so there\u0027s a many way to Jerry\u0027s so we are actually approach it ad to talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:44",
    "text": "about that it doesn\u0027t actually we have many propose own i thinkin we may create the many mister to sorta see the feedback from operator chameleon also from the implementer or developer also for this kind of young day the model integration framework is very useful towards and also we we should actually to figure out how to reach out at a real community with many ways so so one question from the also the design team actually we we think you know we try to address some of this crap actually we think this kind of tech model integration framework will be a good you know starting point to to figure out how how to address this and so we want to ask a working group whether it is a ride-along able to tell bodies whether it\u0027s useful to publish it such kind of document that\u0027s that\u0027s all action comments on on this draft so personally more is I guess a contributor I still I saw your out of scope when I read through it there still you you list a lot of the the ietf yang modules how they fit together what the capabilities currently are I\u0027m not sure how they how that structure currently gets to some of the the questions and the gaps so for me it\u0027s how do we engage more operators I\u0027ve been walking up and made the comment it\u0027s great when we see operators putting forth what what they want to see but how how are is is this work going to fill or help to bridge them those games you know a single there\u0027s a man in discussing this issue for we listed many younger model at a different level so which I do address these that we think it will be useful use ITA motor as example to to see how this model can put together like actually some people may such as move to the appendix but we still single maybe there\u0027s some you know we can you know make it more generic doesn\u0027t need to know type to specify et I define a model this is something we can coming up actually but we really want to target to nurture a pleasure to come up with these common functionality a framework yeah built-in Cisco so not read the draft or evasion read bits of it so detail comments but I think having a general architecture describing how services provisioned and new young models and the layering master I think that\u0027s generally useful I think an abstract level such information is handy and explaining the lifecycle and stuff and I think that\u0027s the after what them back then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:45",
    "text": "which is talking RT gwg was also getting to yesterday whether there should be any specifics about particular models and how they interact written into a draft that I\u0027m not so sure about because I think that stuff probably needs to evolve quite quickly and by the time you go through the specification process is not so useful I think that almost there needs to be on github somewhere or something that that\u0027s the place where I think the sort of running code side of this which is why I regard that the relationship between those models is probably more useful maybe so no there\u0027s not a comment on this draft but I I would see trying to describe the abstract architecture as being the key piece for me thank you Leon from China Mobile I think there are more coordination work than technical work but for these thoughts of young model status and I think it\u0027s quite useful to have a framework as a guideline if that can help operators understand more what model has been developing what working group in such a status so that the operator can give more feedback to the community how and what wish we could do to actually coordinate all this model to to have a more end-to-end service type of methodology so I would have thought the framework would be helpful in terms of coordinate all these young models work happening in place here so robots is yeah I definitely agree that pretties come to balance being a coordination problem as well you know just the way information when I see actually we also you know receive a lot of positive feedback from many operators in this idea meeting when people really really know the donor realities talk about the journal sorry beam energy gave a lot o coulibaly singer this kind of framework is needed to have them to deploy the service so I I think you use what you have this I think what at least I\u0027ve heard here it might be useful to divorce some of the specific yang modules and maybe talk to again and and see what might be done at a higher-level framework to do some of the things Rob was mentioning about connect the dots and how one uses yang modules together yeah right one more thing Frank Rock nurse before you jump to the framework maybe it\u0027s useful to reverse a logic if you I just scan through the document and for certain services you seem to be doing that mapping exercise that goes across all these various layers and then at the same time in your presentation said you were saying that some of these things should be out of scope so right now the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:47",
    "text": "document is a little bit of a mixed mixed bag of things between specifics that are not really done to the very level of granularity that you would need in order to get that actionable and implementable and at the same time you have this generic framework that you use or that you want to go and derive from these specific models what I believe would be useful is to break this thing up and maybe initially focus on one two three initial use cases where you really do the mapping exercise and really nail it to the detail and once you have that learning experience then you can go and up level that into something that is more generic if we\u0027re trying to do both things at the very same time it might be that we\u0027re doing disservice to the generic framework as to the thing that you don\u0027t really spell out to the level of detail where it becomes actionable and implementable because the devil with this mapping exercises in detail there\u0027s multiple layers of indirection and you can get it wrong at every single layer of indirection and then most of these layers of indirection are non-deterministic from an implementation perspective necessarily right so what do you choose which particular counters do you refer to so I I\u0027d rather see the the nitty gritty spelled out maybe in a different document then while you\u0027re trying to go on everything into one big bad business with Donna\u0027s framework is good and is needed but you cannot deploy a framework you also need a set of validated modules that actually work together and do something of value to the operations framework is a guidance but that guidance should also drive the work of actually validating the things together so I think that\u0027s similar to what Frank was explaining probably from a slightly different angle so both both of those works I needed and what you are doing here is in the right direction but this is not something that can be taken and used okay we can put policy this document and try to make it in motion Eric yeah thanks Jenny next stop we have a lot of mud in your eye Eliot and then Dan after that on various mud topics good morning all right so let\u0027s see here the first thing we\u0027ll talk about is the mud controller selection and then we\u0027ll get into mud reporting all right so just by way of review when when a device when a device wants to be protected by manufacturer usage descriptions it publishes a mud URL the Met manager "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:48",
    "text": "picks up a mud file and that mud file contains a bunch of access control statements those access control statements can say things like allow me to connect to a controller or my controller now it could also say things like let me go to this domain let me talk to same manufacturer most the other abstraction Zoar classes they can be filled in automatically by the mud manager but the controller class and my controller class requires at least at the moment some system ended traitor network administrator input well the network administrator might want some help in answering the question who should be the controller for this particular device there are two different classes there\u0027s my controller and there\u0027s controller my controller is that does not require there any class naming on the part of the manufacturer just says for this given Mudd URL the might of my controller should I should have access to my controller in the administration administrator can fill in that for controller they name a class the benefit of naming the classes you can use that across many different device types so now the question then is how do we provide a hint to the to the administrator as to what those controllers should be so that\u0027s what this draft starts to to flesh out it\u0027s this is for the controller you know this is a controller driven approach that is to say the controller is declare I can be a controller for a particular type of device on the controllers themselves are assumed to have mud files in this context and that means by the way at least at the moment that they\u0027re assumed to have a single purpose they they can use an extension to declare this which basically names the classes that they can control and this up to the admin to decide whether or not they like the idea of this controller having access for this purpose so that\u0027s pretty much the draft in a nutshell and so this is how it works I can clean this guy says I can control class brand on example.com slash home owner and these guys all say forgive me they all put in their things essentially a permit statement as I said let me access this thing so you have a nice rendezvous and so that\u0027s this is a something that we wanted to get around to in the initial version it was probably just a bit much for the initial version of mud it\u0027s just nice extension that ties a nice bow around the automation process here now there are a couple of open questions ok the first one is that the roll itself as I mentioned has to have a mud file in mud you are Ella meaning that the controller itself is not an application there\u0027s something we\u0027d like to fix but at least on the mud list and I think we this even got to the opt area working group list this is still a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:48",
    "text": "pretty hard problem the second point is that manufacturers may want to advertise which devices can fill in these classes from their sites so if I go back to this picture here it rather than having this guy say I can control these guys in its class the other way to do this is to say these guys can say here are a list of controllers that can control me now I can\u0027t say quite quite yet which one\u0027s the better approach to do this I think we need a little implementations experience we need to talk to some manufacturers it could be that both of the right approach one area I want to explore is whether we can get the model right such that it can be used in either case however I think that\u0027s going to be a little difficult but I think what I\u0027d suggest is people read the draft I don\u0027t think it\u0027s ready for working group adoption just yet but I will be I\u0027m gonna implement this in the next couple of months it\u0027s pretty easy implementation when you do it from the controller side it\u0027s really easy I think Rangga there could probably do it in 20 minutes with with his headphones on and to give you an idea I mean I think it\u0027s very easy to implement and but the only issue is you have to have some UI elements in there as well to say yes these are the things and sort of a drop-down here are the guys who are able to be controllers for this device um in some cases if you\u0027re the only control you might just want to fill it in and say I see this guy is that okay when you do the initial approval all right so is there interest in this work anybody people read this draft interest I see a couple of hands yep a few hands alright so yeah for the rest of you read the draft it\u0027s fun I like doing stuff fun stuff alright questions before I go on yeah Tim carrion okay I do have a question disrespect with in general with mud right so when I look at the RFC the RFC was you know really oriented towards you know the URL and you know how you get that stuff right and it made secondary comments on what a control on a controller gave a definition but but I don\u0027t now I\u0027m seeing more and more specifications about now I\u0027ve got a reporting aspect to control or whatever right it\u0027s I\u0027m wondering if mud is turning from URL and simple words right to a system right where you have these controllers and stuff and and so my concern is is that we\u0027ve got some systemic system aspects of this that or framework I don\u0027t care but but how all this kind of works together controller works with a with an agent we had the same thing in some other places that that I was actually looking at this work to see if if it made sense to extend the other work that had controllers in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:49",
    "text": "agents for IOT and other management of devices in to utilize the mud and incorporate it but I didn\u0027t have the framework elements that that I that I could really understand I could infirm but I didn\u0027t see and so I was just wondering if there\u0027s a if we\u0027re gonna move this from a URL to do two more systemic that elements is there is there something that we need to produce for the industry to I understand what what all they had components mud is and how they interact alright thank you for the question I\u0027m gonna respond briefly for for time sake if you look at the history actually of the RFC if you go back into the tracker there was a framework document and we collapsed everything into that that mud drop of that mud RFC the mud consists of what I would say are three components really the URL the description file and the the its interpretation at the mud manager level what I would suggest is we have an offline conversation though about whether additional guidance is needed for industry I\u0027m always happy I blather on I\u0027m always happy to provide whatever guidance we think industry needs in order to implement this and from a systemic view I was hoping that we have a reasonably systemic view in that document if you\u0027re saying that we\u0027re missing then I\u0027d like to correct yeah it\u0027s just that as we\u0027re as it seems like we\u0027re extending things just trying to understand what the responsibilities of the various components are right you know I think that was kind of missing other than some short descriptions in the initial RFC all right let me come back to that because I have a question later on in the discussion I said I think a second team\u0027s opening actually I don\u0027t see the whole picture how these out he divides you know what is the life cycle the whole IOT device the management we may mean some framework or two to see how how it works mad mad at fit in you this framework is not a very clear to me but I think very useful to have have these kind of progress I encourage your draft that is to say please write one okay so the next thing is a little different this is work that Rangga from NIST and I are working on and this was in response to some industry interest they say well okay great I have my mud file I have I have my mud URL output how do I know that the device is being treated appropriately within a given network now if the title of this as reporting on fails it could also be reporting on successes I just want to highlight that might you know I tend to be a bit of a pathologist so I always look at the fails in my head so the problem statement is here it is exactly what you see there which is what happened for at least in my mind what happened if the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:49",
    "text": "device isn\u0027t getting the access that it needs even though it\u0027s putting out the mud URL and a mud manager is interpreting it all right now so we have an initial version of a draft which is draft Lior ops area group mud reporter so imagine roughly speaking what\u0027s reported is a think of ARF you got Murray in the back of the room there all the way in the back actually who did this thing called ARF which is a reporting mechanism on how Demark is being used for instance to reject or quarantine email the same sort of concept applies with mud you\u0027ve deployed this mud URL you put deployed this device now what happens you know is it is it acting it is is it being used appropriately is the device getting the access it needs and within a deployment if you have multiple multiple devices are some of them getting the access they need are some of them not getting the access they need and what information does the manufacturer need in order to determine a couple of questions what are those questions okay number one is maybe the is the mud file wrong like maybe he\u0027s maybe they\u0027ve under specified permissions in the mud file and so all of a sudden you\u0027re seeing these rejections is the device hacked maybe the mud files right the network management system is operating exactly as it should be operating but the device has been hacked and is trying to go in different directions which by the way is one of the design goals of mud is to actually spot that is there a problem with the mud manager where it\u0027s not filling out the abstractions correctly is it a problem with say domain lookups if you have if you\u0027re saying please permit access to domain such and such is the resolution occurring such differently between the device and the policy enforcement point such that the device is being blocked even though the domain maps to a particular to that IP address see there\u0027s some of the problems that you could crop up in a model implementation so our model needs to support a little bit of this now this is an initial draft give you an idea how initial just in the span of four days Rangga went and implemented about 80% of it actually he meant implemented about 80% of it in two days and in those in those two days probably the draft has changed about 20% in terms the model so maybe even a little bit more so it\u0027s really really actively being developed but it also leads to a couple of questions right and the biggest issue I want to highlight is that there are privacy concerns here so the mod manager starts reporting this stuff let\u0027s say it\u0027s reporting it to the manufacturer all of a sudden you know what information is the manufacturing is the manufacturer getting that here that they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:49",
    "text": "otherwise wouldn\u0027t get and is that something can we establish an appropriate permissions model such that this reporting model is actually useful so this is the part where I say run pay attention because you\u0027re very focused on privacy issues this is where we need a lot of guidance we might want to bring this draft to - perd for instance for some advice as to how we can have an appropriate permissions model that that that succeeds you know the manufacturer might learn some operational state in the locale the locale might be linkable on there may be devices where you definitely don\u0027t want to do this for wear where you might not want to leak the link the leak the location of what you\u0027re doing for instance so we need to think a little bit about this and some of this information leaks naturally with mud already just by retrieving a mud URL so it may be that there\u0027s less of a concern here that I\u0027m thinking about but I think we need some eyes on that and so my first question is is there interest in this diagnostic reporting sole question of interests or a few hands go up actually a number of hands go up how many people have read this draft see fewer hands but a few okay so look we have some nice heated debates at the IETF I\u0027m pretty sure we can have a couple on this one I think it\u0027s really interesting work but it needs a lot of eyes to get it just right I don\u0027t want a fast roll I don\u0027t want to speed through this draft but I suggest that the best way for this draft to be the best it can be is for two things to happen number one we need manufacturers to look at it to make sure they\u0027re going to get what they want out of it number two is that the IETF this will require substantial area review in order to really be the right thing that comes out finally one last point which is whatever the manufacturers want to see the deployment will want to see more that is to say you know is is my own deployment working appropriately and so we probably want the draft to accommodate that use case as well and in that context one of the questions we will have and there are privacy issues related to this as well as who is the mud manager in the enterprise this is an easy case it\u0027s going to be something adjunct to triple-a infrastructure for an example but in the home it\u0027s a different kettle of fish is the mud manager going to be Google it\u0027s going to be Amazon is it going to be Telus is it going to be cable comcast you know so there\u0027s a privacy considerations even in the deployment so I really do think we need a lot of eyes and with that I would just like to say are there any questions about this work of comments no one\u0027s coming up please do review read this up I think shins gonna make a comment another word it is these questions this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:51",
    "text": "you again so can you okay update all the team at Santa meeting I didn\u0027t see that so I owe to my tell me I don\u0027t know that I have time yeah we\u0027re really running short on time so if you want to send something a summary out the ops area working group lists they\u0027ll be great yeah we had a good good meeting I\u0027m happy to talk to you take care thanks next up we have more mud Dan wing will be presenting remotely Dan can you hear us yes I can hear you hear you hear me over there yep you sound great yeah so let\u0027s get started please so our our goal at next slide our goal for this document is to extend mud from what it\u0027s doing today to describe the TLS interactions so mostly the TLS handshake next slide please so what we\u0027re proposing is to extend it to look at the handshakes hyper Suites offered the cipher suite accepted the ESN I that is in the client hello the server name and the certificate that are in the server hello what the reason is research has found in their citations below that there are mismatches between what happens with malware and what happens with what we\u0027ll call legitimate software especially running on things the things can be profiled and a mud profile can be published indicating what TLS parameters are normal for that device to operate with therefore helping to identify if that device has malware running on it the characteristics that we found in that research is now where it does not use the same crypto Suites does not connect to the same servers that you know behaves differently then the legitimate software running on the device so that\u0027s that use case on the left on it fine and on the right we\u0027ve also found situations where we can use this same technique to detect what I\u0027m going to call broken TLS so failures of best practices such as validating the server certificate expiration date things like that which have been found in a wild and we have we have citations on the next slide on that and and reuse of the same private key with mutually authenticated TLS as we\u0027ve seen in the wild next slide please so there\u0027s a lot of reasons that the software uses you know the legitimate software running on the IOT device uses the same Suites all the time and the same parameters and it\u0027s the same reasons that browsers do it\u0027s to you know make the code easier to run and because they are you know and use less footprint and because they are constrained devices they don\u0027t have all the memory that a PC does so they need to use viewer crypto sweets and have a constrained set of operations that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:52",
    "text": "they\u0027re using for their TLS communications and we\u0027ve filed a bunch of devices that were easy to obtain and cheap and everyone is familiar with echo Kindle a bunch of Google devices and and seeing how many different TOS profiles that they generate following a model that we\u0027ve proposed next slide and this is a bunch of the thiing that we\u0027re proposing you examine and be part of the specification next slide and a common question of course is TLS 1.3 encrypts a lot of it\u0027s in the handshake so how valuable is is this overall and while it\u0027s true it doesn\u0027t encrypt the handshake what is most valuable for us to get for the profiles that we\u0027re interested in is what still remains in the clear with TLS 1.3 and that\u0027s all that I have next slide please and hopefully earned you back some time and if you have any questions please come to the mic or drop me an email questions on this work I think Elliot\u0027s coming up hey Dan how you doing what all right thanks all right so have you have you tried implementing yet you have some code Tarot at McAfee has implemented it yes okay very good good because I think one of the things can do is maybe get a couple of others to join in on the hackathon activities on this too you can see you can get a couple more implementations but it sounds like a really great idea I like the the general direction cool thanks Benoit clay so it\u0027s not specific about this draft but it seems that mud became something big recently right so we went from one R I\u0027ve seen observable ug and I was checking that the mud mailing list now there is like the hackathon there is this mud maker there is like seven documents here right and that that led to the questions that were asked before how does all this fits together so you know isn\u0027t it time to just create a working group what you combine this together I mean and I\u0027ve not been discussing with people Avada but just thinking you know to me whenever I want to get like a picture of everything of muds it\u0027s like a mud mailing list sometime in update absolutely G there is a mat maker so you know just throwing the stone in the pond like people react racing working actually I think it is a researcher who caused sin to sing idea how mad people coordinate with seducing IT yeah alright so occasionally good occasionally I presented to t2 TRG "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:54",
    "text": "however this isn\u0027t really t2 t this is more t2n right the mud never configures a device mud configures the network infrastructure and it\u0027s it could be it could be addressing more than just access control I know we have a few concepts there like around this but it is all focused on configuring the network and never communicating back to the device and never actually and the device should never actually assume then that network is actually doing anything with this information because there might not be a mud controller on the network so it\u0027s a little bit of a different thing but we do talk absolutely and related to benoit\u0027s question and in the interest of time I\u0027ll discuss this via email more there\u0027s also captive portal discussions that have been happening on opposite working group lists maybe it is time to consider how is mud something to to centralize more and make more in its own realm versus versus an ops AWG if that work is going to continue to evolve no I don\u0027t mind if we work in the working group or work elsewhere I think Warren was around for when we and Joel where it was around for a lot of discussions around where we do all this work and it was it\u0027s always one where you can split it multiple ways however one of the things I would like us to contemplate in this in the discussion that ensues is does it discover mud recover some of the onboarding work that is go related to mud like that\u0027s a lot of stuff\u0027s going on in anima some of the stuff that\u0027s going on EMU there\u0027s discussion going on in acne around onboarding here which there\u0027s stuff that\u0027s been going on in six dish which looks like it\u0027s about to close there\u0027s a whole animal architecture that\u0027s never before or before it\u0027s not anima is the wrong word it\u0027s the 83 66 voucher work that Kent and others did which is being built upon and then we need to look at how that works an on-prem should we should we tie these into more of an onboarding working group or an IOT onboarding working group or to the just be mud and I\u0027m getting these this really ugly looking face from Warren so maybe maybe you want to comment more more than this guy I think we\u0027ll move on but I do think we should have this broader discussion thank you Dan thank you our next presentation is also remote how you can you hear us how you song can you hear us yes okay we hand and you are up if you\u0027re talking we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:00",
    "text": "can no longer hear you talk about this in-situ flow information to lamprey framework we have been talking about this um in two meetings ago and then we also present this in AI ppm working group but we still think OBS aw geez a right feet for this document and therefore we are seeking for the working group adoption for this eventually please go to the next slide uh so the motivation for this document are threefold firstly there are currently some novel data plane geometry technology are emerging especially cuz they are we call that on past geometry it involves several are different technologies and we you think there is a need to actually classify the terms and underlying techniques so that we can have a formal understanding about those different technologies and secondly as these techniques are very useful not only for the data center and the price Network we also see a strong interest from the carrier operators to apply these kind of technologies however on you know tearing or prototyping and deployment of this technology we find there are quite a few challenges we need to address before they can it can be a delayed providing in our networks so we also want to provide an architectural framework to summarize the challenges and if some guideline for the future standard development so therefore it\u0027s also very important to continue to identify any other issues and so it will be very helpful for us to continue to develop collapse the suite of protocols next slice yeah so in previous RFC\u0027s we have a defined several distinct type of 4om techniques they are passive and active OAM the pensive means basically you just a filter ER filter or sample user traffic and you stand to infer the form itself you use the traffic the active is on the opposite side you the ural a you just inject some dedicated om package "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "and you just mirrors those kind of active probing packets to get performance of the networks but they said you kind of on past data printed entry techniques are different from either passive mode or active mode so we think we can call that a hybrid mode because instead of just capture the user traffic or inject a new package it actively modified the user packet by adding metadata or instructions to the user packet and therefore collects those direct data from the user traffic to infer the performance of each user flows or the network and below this hybrid mode they can be further are separate to two different type of underlying techniques we call them a wise password mode and under its postcard mode bypass per mode means it\u0027s just basically are you stamp the new date to the user pack in the ante each each hop on the 40 pass so the representative technologies IOM trees mode and E to e mode the posts I belong to this category and in contrast the postcard mode is a different it\u0027s a instead of you know adding the user data to the packet itself it\u0027s just a directly exported data using a separate dedicated OM packet and the user traffic will be kept intact and or RSS or carry some instruction but note page a self so so we think a weekend in this document we can clarify this different type of technologies will be one contribution to our compliments you know that already defined terms for the OEM techniques next slide um then this slide summarizes everal challenges we are we found when we trying to divide the technology scene carrier networks the first ones are related to the performance because it this kind of techniques involve quite a lot they deplane are processing if you\u0027re generate data or generate export package so sometimes it can have a direct impact on the folding performance we call an observant effect which would call actually damage the fidelity of our telemetry data and also you know I it\u0027s not intolerable to actually impact the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:03",
    "text": "folding performance and on the other hand as a as a export data due to that a huge amount of I exported the data the benefits consumption is huge also those data will may overload the processing servers will handle this kind of data so this this a performance issues must be addressed to allow this kind of tactics to be applied and also we find the current design current standard proposals there are limited data flexibility and extensibility which means it can be useful to add some predefined set of data but but I see there are to apply this in the wider scope to support different Network scenarios or to select different kind of data source um even user data that\u0027s this standard proposal still can o do that so we need to extend the flexibility and accessibility and the last one is a deployment issues because inherent networks there are so many different type of transport protocols and there are many related work going on in ITF to to talk about how you will encapsulate such protocol headers you address into the different protocols so these are very useful and we need to continue that kind of work to try to cover a different kind of Network scenarios and also we to consider how to handle the different tunnels how to make this work in both underline and underlay and overlay networks so that\u0027s what we are very important clarified that the technique how to write in tunnel mode next slide is okay so the the high level framework I include four key components the first one i smart flow data selection which works and the basically has had a node it allow to us to define what kind of packets or what can flow we should actually enable this kind of data collection technique right then there there can be a different algorithm based approaches and or some user-defined smart filters of this kind of techniques are very useful if you reduce as a load to the network and the second component is explored data reduction which means when and every node if it ever need to export data and we can deploy some event based smart filters to actually reduce amount of data that need to be exported "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:04",
    "text": "so that\u0027s a very effective to to reduce theta X bandwidth also reduces load of the processing server and third components as covers are the encapsulation and the tunnel mode issues so make it workable in different underlying networks so the last one is that dynamic and natural probe is actually a very key components can be used to support the previous three components by you know allow user to device data filtering out intersection policies underground hi so with this of core components we came a support we can address the performance the prior ability and the flexibility issues we are facing in Korea networks next slice yeah so basically you want to take this opportunity to have a more discussion with a working group and we want to collect more feedbacks from working group so apart from those have been covered in this document we want to know are there any other challenges or the carrier networks data printing I\u0027m free we need to address and also what was missing in this is document is there any suggestions to accept framework more complete and we yeah we welcome any feedback on this draft and so we can like help us to improve this document and we move it towards the call for the working group adoption thank you very much any question so thank you take one question then we have to take the rest of the list Shwetha cisco I\u0027ve gone through this draft a few times it looks more like a white paper describing a solution less like a framework it\u0027s a bit confusing on how who is targeted towards and how to how to use it including the the challenges requirements that the framework is going to meet and it has a bunch of references to to a whole lot of individual work which I\u0027m which are neither RFC\u0027s or have been adopted it it looks more like the data that is collected here which is useful could be could be given as feedback to the existing drafts that are under work elsewhere and and then revisit and see how do you how do you want to proceed with giving a operator feedback on how to use those inbound telemetry protocols that are going to be defined and some implementation guidance but as a frame it doesn\u0027t make much sense to me yes so the technique coward here that quite new via or RFC draft ITF drops right now and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:05",
    "text": "so this this document doesn\u0027t introduce any new techniques it\u0027s a means to be an informational and also we want to collect actually the feedback from operators for their experience all departments for the deployment so we also want to provide best you know industry practice so that we can help in our IDF to to continue work on this related to the technique so I think that\u0027s a main purpose of this draft documenting in deployment experience would be useful but that\u0027s not in there yet and and there is reference to algorithms that would make it better there is reference to unbox processing that would make it better without any concrete examples I think those adding those what would make it useful thanks but yeah please bring that up on the list so we can capture some of that that was a contributor some of my feedback as well let\u0027s see we can push that out there and how you thank you again for presenting our last presenter is remote Mickey can you hear us Mickey are you there Mikey sorry he\u0027s coming to the mic can you hear me now we can okay all you the the quicker you can go through this the better okay so I wanted to talk about IOM raw data export so first for those who are not that aware I Oh AMR is in situ OEM is being progressed in the AI ppm working group where there\u0027s a draft for a data plane format that would go into packets so essentially if packets traversing a network in the in a domain and maybe at when the packets come into the domain you start adding at every hop some network telemetry information and then when you get to the other end you need to export that in some way amount to a processing system that can do analytics or whatever type of monitoring you want so this kind of complements all that it\u0027s not about how you affect the normal data plane packets but now that you\u0027ve collected a bunch of information how can we export that and what would we do with that next slide please so so as I mentioned IOM records operational and telemetry information in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:10",
    "text": "its initial form in the packet itself though there are proposals to export directly from nodes as well so in raw export we\u0027re really saying that for a lot of the hardware switches and routers out there they want to focus primarily on forwarding and you know just getting the data to its endpoint it\u0027s very useful to collect this telemetry information and that\u0027s what\u0027s new about IO am but we\u0027d like to minimize the processing load and the difficulty of doing that within those nodes and one way to do that is to do what we call raw export which is kind of a minimal form of where you do as little processing is necessary to retrieve that IO am data that\u0027s been collected and then export that in the simplest manner possible so as you see in the figure on the right the IO am node is a switch or router that is forwarding packets you do that the raw export is in allowing to offload a lot of the processing or aggregation or reformatting to an IOM data processing system so we\u0027re just trying to get the information off the IOM notice as simply as possible and then from that it is possible that after that I um data processing system it may do some formatting or aggregation or processing it may do some interpretation and from there you may have something else it\u0027s gonna progress that to a monitoring or analytic system so this is really focused on that first light blue arrow on the bottom for a rocks for dividing data it is not focused on the processed or interpreted or aggregated iom data which is something that could be addressed that might be valuable but that\u0027s not what this draft is is trying to do next slide please so as we look at raw export we really want to get just the the telemetry information and some packet fields as well so we want to be able to identify the packet or the flow and for that we just we\u0027re basically saying if you just take a chunk of the packet itself involving a bunch of the headers then you can figure out what the packet is so as we looked at how we could do this we found that IP fix is a possible answer IP fix is a generic export protocol so while initially it was primarily used for counters and meters and things like that um there was a packet sampling framework to find and that exports chunks of packets and we found that that is a pretty good match for what we want to do and IP fix has these templates that allow you to construct fairly concise packet formats or formats for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:13",
    "text": "the exported packets where you can add various fields that can help provide contacts and could include the IOM headers themselves now because we want to support this you know billions of packets per second kind of crazy line rates it\u0027s likely that an implementation that\u0027s using IP fix for export of IO a.m. is going to do a small subset of what IP fix normally does so we\u0027re not talking at generic you know to find any template you want and go off and run with it we\u0027re we\u0027re talking about supporting a small number of all of templates that are rather fixed and but a template can then describe whoever\u0027s receiving this what that format is and it allows a fair amount of flexibility then different implementations could use different IP fixed templates which allowed them to optimize and support it well in hardware and systems receiving them would do the more flexible the full IP fix implementation and they could interpret it with various formats coming say from different vendors or so on next slide please so there\u0027s a bunch of information elements that are already defined for packet sampling so section of an IP header or a section of a data link frame or Ethernet so some of those have been identified here next slide please so we\u0027re also proposing some new information elements to provide a district more context or tell you something about the IOM encapsulation type before on the bottom are the actual IOM information so you just take that chunk that\u0027s already defined in the I ppm drafts and just throw it in one in information element that you then include an IP fix next slide please and then there are some examples you don\u0027t have to follow these formats but these are examples of how you might do things so you might just have an IP header packet section with the IOM embedded within next slide or you could include the hour in front in this example you have the IOM data and then a few other fields and then the packet section so you know which packet or flow it is next slide also we found some issues with alignment so like for byte alignment is a big issue for a lot of hardware implementations and when you have multiple implement a multiple information elements with the existing IP packet section if you have multiple information once it doesn\u0027t necessarily always format alignment so propose two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:14",
    "text": "things to next let\u0027s go to them so so this has been presented an IP PM before and the question is as we look at these issues and try to define this and progress this does this topic make more sense in ops AWG or an IP PM there\u0027s no real home for IP fix at the moment I believe so we\u0027re really asking if ops AWG will be interested in progressing this work and soliciting technical input and feedback how many people have read this draft only three hands and two of them are ad hoc a few more hands have gone up is their interests in in doing this work in ops AWG this perfect workaround IP fix and IO am and we\u0027re okay I think we\u0027ll take that to the list and ask that question there Mickey thank you very much we are well out of prime so please do read this all of these drafts and come to the list and comment and with that in the last 30 seconds I\u0027m handing things over to ops area for our 80s before we before we switch so I fix has home in ops AWG as basically a catch-all there another option is that this might be an individual response of document here for that\u0027s only of this single single piece of work Warren Kumari also commenting on that so I guess the big question is where do you think ever get more review so far it hasn\u0027t got a huge amount of discussion and updated eg if you think it\u0027ll get more review a night ppm and there\u0027s fine one if you want Thank You Mickey are there any questions for the ops area directors open mic with that then unless Ignace sir Warren you want to say any closing remarks so one of the topics that was raised previously about modern related work and where the home for that would be and also similar activities in anima possibly in security related working groups does the audience think that they would like to discuss this Elliott wanted but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:16",
    "text": "he had to leave so anyone else interested in this topic right any comments about that so mud the core of the mud workers seems to be done now there are extensions similar thing is happening with brewski Bruce key is being processed but the rest now incoming work on what was called brewski profiles extensions uses and other things onboarding in general is topic of interest for the community the question is how large is that community do we need the central kind of a group or them for the lack of a better word which would coordinate at work or can that work be done fragmented lis in in different places where that is now so your thoughts I think from matter work actually agree there\u0027s a lot of relevant really to use T device management it would be good to have a single place to talk about this and I also am having what know where there\u0027s a home gateway home networking group I\u0027m not sure what\u0027s the ask over so since the for this matter will cover a lot of the you know security partner onboarding Brisky acacia is very complicated I cannot have the Hopi show so and want to better understand the scope is matter work for me Joe Clark similar I I don\u0027t mind the the mud work happening in ops area working group as a working group chair but it sounds like and there is a lot of side meetings other aliases other areas where there\u0027s interest it might make sense to centralize that to give that community a more focused ability to progress this work [Music] yeah I would direct your attention to the comment on the chat from Dar Shaq the core who says I believe there\u0027s a lot of interest in onboarding and yes a single place or group would be nice home net is probably the wrong place so my yeah I mean I think you can interpret that how you want to thanks thanks for laying the question that I would have from my side is having work spread in different places in grouped by topic probably results in the fast work on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:17",
    "text": "those components if this becomes so if for example a new working group is established to kind of coordinate all of that work wouldn\u0027t that result in a long but probably needed discussion on how to organize that on framework documents on on kind of guidance and less focus on actual shipping products specifications is that is that of a concern for the community yeah actually for this out he really Walker I want to see more out he in their own manager Acadia more likely so it\u0027s a something we should sing about that yes definitely but not less so one experiment one thing we did in ops Regina pass is that whenever we saw that we had like three or four documents energy management then a new charter was created by the ad to just create that that charter now to come back to your question I\u0027m only going to go through the series of requirements and framework and everything it just depends what the ATS will put in a charter right and I think lately there was like an IG statement telling that we don\u0027t have to go through in sequence requirements and frameworks and cetera so you could just target and say this is what this group is supposed to do so this is your choice would probably this would not disagree with that but that\u0027s up to the working group actually trying to adhere to that and doing something and well we have a really good history of over thinking about the problem space not necessary for bad reasons but that takes a really long time so the question is if for example there are only extensions in a pipeline for mud maybe it\u0027s more efficient to do that here concentrated on on mud if there are extensions to brewski maybe it\u0027s more efficient to concentrate an anima to address those extensions if we are thinking about all-encompassing coverage from architectural point of view yes that\u0027s probably a new working group and maybe maybe even more but the question at what time there will be some tangible durable deliverables out of that right so we out of time but please raise those concerns to the mailing list and please voice your opinion this is not only well for it is to think about that and then tell what for you to do this is for you as a community to decide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:07:17",
    "text": "what you want to do as well blue sheets if you haven\u0027t signed them I think they\u0027re floating around in the back of the room please assign them on your way out and thank you very much Thanks you "
  }
]