[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign foreign I guess that we can we can start okay so hi everyone um so this is the drip working group um that um I'm chairing with Med um if you haven't seen the note well since the beginning of the ITF I would be a little bit surprised but it's part of the rules so if you have any questions um just come back to the chairs or any person from any chairs or any AD and it will be happy to respond to your question um so I guess you know the rules but um so if you're using um I mean we we ask you to use um mitiko to go into the line uh even though you're in person um so you have to click to to go into the queue of the meteco so that everyone knows who you are who is speaking who is asking a question um usually we ask you not to use the video but um if you I mean if you're speaking not on site remotely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "then um you you can use the video otherwise if you don't speak make sure the audio is mute um if you want to speak and it's really recommended that you have some headsets um that's going to make your um I mean your words more comprehensible um for everyone so this is the current agenda for today um so we have a little bit of a I mean this is the introduction and um then we have some administrative here which is um how we liaise with um other organizations to get some um Sam cut points um I guess Stu is probably going to clarify that for us um then we have a some um some active duck around the working group is focused on now and just for a reminder um the one we're putting all our effort is the authentication draft um and then um we have the Registries so these two are um I mean the main focus of the working group then we will have um a point from Andre on um what are the implementation the current implementation um so Andrea and Adam and then um closing uh we will close that session with um anything you want to say um is there anything that anyone willing to raise anything regarding this agenda so document status um we have two documents that are at the ASG we're basically waiting for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "authentication draft um to be completed so that we we assure the three drafts are equivalent between each others um we expect that to be done relatively soon so yeah just then you're just in the previous slide please if you can just yeah so uh as as mission is flies so we have the um there was a lot of work which was done for the the drip architecture and the the read specifications so there's a lot of discusses that we received during the Azure review that were that were resolved and as an outcome of that of the discussion there's another individual draft that was edited in the APC the work group and it is now it is sponsored by Roman so Bob if you can just give us an update of the the other draft which is a sponsored by Roman do you think that's this will be progressed along the uh the read Bob yeah okay so that one is is there so for the authentication so this is not mentioned in the slide so this is the second working of last call we have for this for this document we used to have the first one where you see the fair amount of comments um there was some commitment during the the previous ATF meeting for people to review and we didn't receive the four people that committed to to do that but received at least if I remember two or three of them um and then we launched the second working class call there was Major modification in the specifications we hope to see more eyes on this document uh so far we only have the the working of chairs who will review the document and we are doing this as a courtesy for the work group but we would love to see more eyes on this one so please even if it's the working op is closed there is time so that you can share your comments on this one before we decide to send it to uh to to our Ed so there is we also requested the the early their expert"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "review views two of them are really positive the one about the gene art and the security directorate the one I was hoping to see was from the operational directory because there's a lot of aspect there about the provisioning which are important we didn't receive any news from them we really contacted them so that we can send us the review but we didn't hear from them so um please get into this document and share with us in the commentary app so Daniel peace okay so do you do we want to make a call of people committing to review I think that's the idea no need to to have commitment for this one but I think that the message is shared so let's let's hope to see some more yeah okay right so these are the miners the milestones so um so the authentication um is sent to the IHG two months ago so we're I mean uh we we need to to make sure that um it happens by the end of the year um so this is why it is important that we get some additional reviews so we we confident we we're going to reach that goal um and same for Registries um um we would like that to be sent by the end of the year um I guess we will have some ad words but um um well the idea is basically that um all the Don all the work is we will be done by the next ITF that's um we don't want to meet for the next ITF um I think that should be the message um but uh now I'm maybe giving the floor to Eric"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "yeah so everything the responsibility for this just wanted to say a few words in addition to the image sent by the chairs of end of September as you know the Arc in Rhythm are approved from calculation for changing and going through everything I know addressing this case takes time thank you on this I am waiting like we said that the old progress to be sure that they're all in saying because we need to be coherent so good news for the arch I will request another iitf-wide last call because there's been two important change to it that are not editorial right in section 402 3 there's been added blockchain in addition to DNS so which is a major change and the other one another major change was replacing DNS over TLS which provides only privacy by DNS SEC that provides authenticity and integrity right so that's major change so we request another Last Call on this I don't expect anything bad for read by the way I would need to send an email on the mailing list because I saw that in Section 5 when we do the reverse DNS the canonical format is not used so two IPv6 addresses or it can end up in the same name which is of course not really what we want anyway detail um and I think we will talk and get some news about the code points that I owed right I'm not sure we can go and progress to the IG without those code points and we may need to do some document surgery or whatever um I'm there to help but I'm kind of helpless though on this one yeah Eric about the um the the last call that you plan to to issue for the um for the arch when do you think that that's um that will happen oh it will I mean it will happen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "whatever happens to oldness if all progress right within one month or two months I will shift together because it's easier for the people doing the review right getting the edge simply for this for for their Leisure let's say for their comfort if nothing moves on old and right which I think is a bad scenario I will move those two forwards oh then and wait thank you okay so um this slide is a focus on the Registries so as you know there is a proposal to um to split the the content of the current Registries we have into various spaces so that people can easily digest and also grasp the uh the specification it is really I would say for me it's a good risk fraction of the content is really more important for I would say uh to structure this aspect but it is up to the working to decide whether we maintain the current structure or we go to this account proposal if we go for the split there is the um um I would say two questions arise there is that we need to make sure that we will put in this document are fully aligned with our drip Arch document and this is something that I think it is it is today but uh the editors need to to be aware about about this and not deviate from what we have at least agree so far and the other point that we'll discuss also during this lot of registration is we need to decide where to uh to send the other documents because they don't believe to belong to to the drip working group so there is some I would say some Logistics to be to be figured out and you will discuss that during the Adam's laws there's a third point which is really procedural but we will depend on the you will need an approval from Eric is to uh to change the the status track of the registration from proposed standard into informational but this is something that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "we can we can discuss Daniel okay um so a steam I I can contact so we send an email um and um to contact us uh um organizations um but I think um um Adam or Stu did some follow-up so um I I think I think it might it might clarify Where We Are and um and uh what are the next step to to be done um foreign okay so um so I'm basically going to talk about things external to ietf that drive or otherwise interact with our work so so I don't have the slides for um for um ASTM did you have some specific ones yeah I I had just like three slides which I um um had uploaded and I think Med has approved them yes so if you can uh pull them from the data tracker or whatever okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "because I have the implementation I have there's one called externality no I don't I can't see those um um well I'll start talking while he looks um yeah so I'm gonna grab my own laptop as notes okay so there's um essentially uh three externalities there are uh what are The Regulators you're up to and what are the other standards development organizations up to and uh uh what are the early adopters doing so we've had um several interactions between the regulators and the external standards development organizations that have affected drip since IHF 114. in July ASTM published f-3411-22a it explicitly acknowledges drip in the section that talks about session IDs there used to there used to be three types of IDs now there's four the fourth type is called a specific session ID it has two sub types subtype one is listed as the ietf Drone remote identification protocol identifier and f-3586 means of Compliance Document was submitted by ASTM to FAA So This only affects the United States but it describes how uh f-3411-22a can be used to satisfy the FAA regulations um and that was um mostly approved by the FAA but they added a couple of additional requirements um in August the FAA said yeah we like that means of compliance but um you need to have tamper resistance and there's a lot of um pain uh surrounding that one um the reason being how do you do tamper resistance with something that can be sold profitably for 49 at Walmart"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um in September uh unmanned aircraft system manufacturers began filing Declarations of compliance based upon uh that means the compliance standard and the notice of availability thereof I filed a comment now I normally don't use the first person singular pronoun in a context like this but I made it very clear that I was speaking for Stu card but informed by work with my employer ietf drip the Air Force blah blah blah um and uh pointed out that if you run the drip extensions to ASTM f-3411 you're going to have a private key store on board the aircraft and if you have tamper reactive Hardware you can simply wipe that and that will achieve the faa's purpose more effectively and at a lower cost than putting the thing in a titanium can also in October representatives of the FAA agreed with the need for authentication which goes beyond f-3411 requires you know what we're doing in drip or or what the IEEE is doing is the other specific session ID subtype um and they unofficially expressed their appreciation of what we're doing uh in drip drip really needs participation from folks outside the United States and notice the whole first half of this slide is what's going on with the FAA and many of you shouldn't care what's going on with the FAA so we really need some help from from uh you folks outside the U.S um we're going to need probably a means of compliance um addendum or something like that showing how to use drip in addition to ASTM f-3411 to more fully satisfy the requirements because as I mentioned when the FAA said yeah we like the ASTM thing it was with a yeah but you have to do these additional things um presumably our basic drip document set consisting of requirements uh architecture the identifier which is Bob's riddraft the authentication formats and protocols which is atoms major draft and at least the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "architecture of the Registries if we go ahead with that that restructuring interestingly there are folks with really urgent needs for remote ID and so before we have FAA or any other caa's blessing of any rfcs or indeed any rfcs actually beyond the requirements which is the only one that's been published so far um dtn working group is considering whether our hips uh fit their node and endpoint identify our needs for at least some cases and some U.S agencies which I am not at Liberty to name but they are big ones with a lot of money and a lot of aircraft are conducting field trials that are intended to rapidly become actual deployments of drip Daniel could you put up the next slide please okay how do these Drive our work well the asdm document and the rules of the different cias already drove our requirements which drove our architecture which is really closing in on publication as an RFC which then points to and introduces um the identifier the authentication formation protocols and whatever our Registries document structure proves to be and I'll leave that to Adam to talk about next slide if you would please Daniel okay so um some other interactions um somebody in ITF I'm not sure who I'm not sure whether it's ESG or IAB wants points of contact from Iko and istm to make sure that this whole thing isn't just bobbing me ranting and um they are willing in principle to you know to provide those uh points of contact UM Iko wants what they call an observer which is actually a full participant but with no voting rights in their new trust framework panel which is for all of Aviation unmanned aircraft manned aircraft Airline operation centers Air Traffic Control Towers the whole nine yards right um they've already adopted the a variant of the drip identity entity tag as one of their identifier formats um so Bob and Stu Bob and Stewart"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "already on the panel uh and the first meeting will be in Montreal and we really need somebody to represent ITF or ITF drip not be Bob not me um ASTM wants Iko to act as the registrar for remote ID types and code assignments fortunately our drip entity ID is already burned right into the standards document itself and it's been said that when this registry is stood up entry number one will be drip um and then the specific authentication methods there's going to be several subtypes and we need at least three but there's no process yet uh in place to to register those um each of these organizations has procedures for establishing official Liaisons but um those procedures take time and we're not so much trying to establish you know ongoing broad organizational relationships or trying to address the specific issue of getting our Sam codes and so ASTM has um drafted a letter which is still in a STM legal review that's going to go to Iko to officially request that Iko be the registrar for that Iko has unofficially said yes already um as soon as those documents are mutually signed so that there is a registrar we will immediately file our registration paperwork with them um we've had to identify some informal interim points of contact So Adam uh for drip because the authentication draft is where those stem codes get used um Salo de Silva who's a very highly placed individual at Iko headquarters and uh Gabriel Cox who chaired the ASTM working group that developed the remote ID standard f-3411. to identify an appropriate DNS Apex we've been talking with the uh appropriate people and to identify an appropriate IP prefix we've been mostly talking amongst ourselves but informed by the um assignments that were previously made for hip and hip B2 so anyway um to summarize"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "um even though drip drafts are mostly drafts and not yet rfcs we've already got enormous momentum beyond the iatf I mean there are people who are sending these things into the field based upon the drafts did for the equation yeah please yeah just please stay there for the first line right just to clarify a little bit maybe a little bit fuzzy there's yet in general the ieb is in charge of all the liaison right this is the thing and typically the isg will require in the evaluation that all those check has been done so you get all the piece together with somewhere we say it's formal yeah we have a process but it's simply an email in the case of the ATF IAB so uh you can say hey Eric blah blah it is enough right so very simple stuff yeah right and and we do in fact have emails from Salo de Silva saying yes I will serve for now as the iko's point of contact with ietf and we've got an email from Gabriel Cox saying yes I will serve as ASTM remote ID uh work Group contact with iatf yeah just yep before can you just please send it to the church because we have contacted these people and if you received any reply from them so if you can just forward them that would be really cool for we have a record yeah I'll ping them again yeah and also to to answer to the first point you have in the slides it's us as a chairs who try to to get this license because we have a problem with the authentication draft if we don't have allocations we cannot send them to uh to to Eric so that's a real problem in the process if you want to have interoperability and we need to fix this anyway so Jim please yeah generally just a random Bozo on this particular bus um I think the points were made earlier are quite valid too that we probably don't need to have a formal liaison"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "relationship set up between the ITF and these other organizations perhaps as you say a non-voting subject matter next but see a designated ITF expert to potentially serve nuts committee and I think something as simple as Eric appointee or stuck key with probably the best mechanism for that and let's not get too tied down ideas setting up a formal reason channel that might be something for further down the line if there's going to be a long-term relationship there thank you Jim Eric Derek zinc again and like you who to partially answer you but you answer yourself to what you said so we don't need there are two steps for liaison liaison manager which is some guy which is there for many years and then don't see everything we have different 3gpp I3 poly it's not the case here I don't think so uh so since simply liaison statements it's simply an email that is kept forever in one specific place in the web that's what yeah I mean um I mean uh I don't think we would have that discussion if they would answer to our email this is my view I mean we are not we're not trying to build something heavy um actually we just want to get yes we agree on that yes we will have those count points but currently when we're trying to contact them with an email we don't get any response we haven't seen any response so um well I really know show this in the in the in the meeting notes or anything but um one of those guys had a very recent change of employment which has um muddled things a little bit and the other one uh just defended his PhD which has kept him rather busy but uh I'll ping him again just one final point on this to meet again um whoever is going to serve not trusted that that Fremont panel thing you were talking about before this they will not be speaking for the ITF or representing the ITF they're just someone from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "ITF who can advise and give information yeah just one final question before we wrap up on this one you have mentioned that the echo our client to answer to the STM about their their plan to uh to have their history do you have an idea about this scheduling or just something which well I told him I wanted it before today and they said I'll hopefully get it in December December okay if it's December it's it's fine okay thank you thank you still for eign okay so um let me try to yeah I already have slides Dan already up thanks to Matt so you should be okay all right so I'm going to attempt to Blitz through the small stuff and then we have discussion where do I point this here there I I click nothing happens it is sad okay well I think Med did that useless okay um so just a quick update to touch back on that ASTM and ik are working through the process to set up the registry for the uh code points for the Sam types the formal letter is to be sent I contacted Gabriel earlier in the week it's through their legal processing so it will be going out of ASTM soon to get to Iko um once Iko gives the official confirmation they should be ready and we can just send the email through uh Eric or Matt or Daniel to Iko requesting what they need to be like are you going to give us code points a simple yes and then we can move forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "um and those are the four code points we're looking for link wrapper manifest and frame and the Stu said we at least need the first three um so on the working group last call for authentication um there was no substantive reviews medheads put some issues on GitHub for me so thanks Med I'm going to be working on those at the end of this week beginning of next week so there should be a dash 27 pushed out hopefully by the end of next week after I've recovered from traveling from London uh next slide all right so we're going to talk about the hackathon very quickly next slide um it was really successful um I had a good discussion with the Liu students from Andre they were all remote we found some issues I did a very quick just interrupt bash things seem to be working just barring a few knits they're going to be working on the changes hopefully during the week so maybe Andre will give some updates on that at the end of the meeting we had two physical attendees um Philip and Marius they produced the first open source implementation of endorsements which is part of the registry draft so and that will hopefully end up on the working group GitHub I'm gonna have to talk to Med about how that's going to work but there's a fork through there and that will be lovely um so thanks to both Philip and Marius for their work uh Saturday and Sunday uh we presented a hack demo happy hour and showed it off and it was working with my closed Source implementation all right so right into the registries you can just one two next slide okay so the current status was the registry document has kind of sat since 114. um I did I think a small update push right at the end or right after but there was the a general agreement of a concept in 114 but it wasn't formal of doing a split as we've been discussing but a dry run was requested so I split"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "the documents through them in an email threw them to the mailing list nothing happened I think for like a month I waited and then Bob said drafts are free put them in the data tracker under a personal draft so I threw them in his personal drafts into the working group uh there were no comments from either set of pushes other than I think Bob plus wanting it very early on um the my live prototype is fast tracking these documents it's live in on the Internet it's using DNS it's doing all of its good things so I want to focus today solely on the discussion of this you know splitting of the documents and get consensus now um next slide so this image is probably familiar to you from 114 it's a bit parsed down and not as wordy uh and has color this time um so this is the general architecture the detm architecture and each one of those arrows represents a draft that is currently pushed there are five documents the denim architecture the DPA HTTP document the registry HTTP document the registry Epp document and the DIA rdap document and you can see on this image where they're located in the whole architecture stack next slide so the datum Arch is the primary document that's going to I think affect the working group it replaces the registry document that we have now it becomes goes from standard to informational maybe I'm not quite sure we're gonna have to talk to Eric and get working group consensus on it but it's the primary architecture for the registration and lookup it rips all of the implementation details out and says these are in other drafts we just talk high level models roles components for the system that is it um next slide uh as I said it's a copy of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "Registries document with the following changes the terminology I can confirm lines up with the current version of architecture it happened at the end of work 14. I made sure that everything was lined up if it isn't lined up it's maybe one word here one word there that just missed a control uh find replace if that's what I did um there were some additional sections explaining the logical components added I updated the attestation to endorsement again uh the changes uh for definitions it's also been moved to the main body implementation details have been ripped out we may need to tweak text here and there that might be broken based on that but for the most part it read fairly cleanly at least to me um and then there was a new Ayana registry put in for some value stuff for registration data per um some comments from Stu now overall this makes it easier to parse and modulize as Med said earlier so I as the author and I believe the editor of the document believe that this is a great move because it was a hard time in 114 of the guys from info networks it was so much it was a fire hose to them and they just couldn't grok anything and it took hours and hours and hours to get them up to speed and that was just horrible so hopefully this fixes a lot of the problems uh let's go to the next slide so this is the next biggest important draft that probably stays in the working group it's the uh drip provisioning agent uh document and it's the if we looked back at the previous diagram which you don't have to go back to we might go back to later it was the red arrow and this is just the interface between clients and the dime inputs the formatting all that good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "stuff um I hope that this working group document gets adopted or the document gets adopted by the working group but if we have to focus on datum alone that's fine next slide same thing with the DIA HTTP this is another document that defines a interface for the rdds it's currently HTTP based it could be else other things that may depend on DNS Technologies and where exactly we're deploying again another document that I hope would be adopted because it's I think a core but it isn't the pressing issue the pressing issue is the architecture uh next slide finally the documents to move to the working group these are the ones that I'm not really sure where they go uh the registry to http Dia rdap and registry Epp they seem to be better suited into the registry extension working group but it's an argument of do we give it to them and they work on it and I travel with the documents to give guidance for the use case and they are the primary authors or we leave them here and bring primary authors to here I'm not quite sure how this is handled and where the work lives so we're probably have to discuss this uh next slide all right so these are just some open issues that are left the apex of the DNS tree as Stu pointed out encryption key management which is kind of a stretch goal in a way it ties into Bob's uh personal draft on operator privacy which privacy which has expired but I know based on my work that's the next big item I have to work on implementation wise um serial numbers for non-drip participants this is something that's been knocked around by the authors a little bit and then finally endorsement just definitions uh they're in Json"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "right now which is terrible I'm going to convert them to cddl so this is more just an action item for me and to remember uh next slide okay so this is the discussion so those are the big major questions do we proceed with this restructure do we have any problem with the names and the Scopes what do how do we adopt denim Arch if we're going to is it just a rename of the Registries document is it just a push of the Registries document with the content completely changed I don't know personally I don't care as long as we agree to what we want to do and what makes it life easier for everyone and then finally what documents stay um so I opened the floor to anyone and everyone to give their opinions and their input hopefully we can reach consensus by the end of the hour Moskowitz Adam from the slides it's not clear to me will you put the endorsement evidence um definitions the endorsement dividends definitions are in the detm architecture so the architecture document it is Section 8 I believe of the personal document and that's where they're defined the structures are defined and uh just generally what goes in the evidence what is goes in evidence is defined in other documents the the actual formats the formats though are defined in the drip the datum architecture okay I may have a little bit of a problem of how much information is in the architecture other than saying these things exist but in terms of the definition of content that may be problematic having that in in architecture I'll have to look and review it be careful here because our because that may be getting a little bit too much detail in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "architecture so the only thing where those where there's well-defined what's in the evidence is the predefined structures that we have selected self-endorsements broadcast endorsements concise endorsements that's the only thing that's very specific in that document but everything else gets kicked out yeah defining what they are and why they are belongs in in architecture and that is there now okay defining their Continental what's in them even um just describing the elements all that belongs elsewhere elsewhere okay that's that's my view of it that's fine with me as long as we find the home for the pieces yeah Jim Reed back again to claim I'm just speaking for myself in general I think this is a great step forward and breaking down the existing documents along the lines you suggested Adam is a good idea it's much more modular it's easier to understand and it's easier to figure out how the bits are going to try to fit together so I think going down this way is probably the right thing for the working group to do the other comment I had to do is about the potential for an Epp extension I think we would do should do this work here because we'll be better placed to I know what the requirements might be and then eventually when we've got something that's reasonably well baked chuck it across the road to the to the regex group to ask them for any final comments but since all we're going to lightly be doing is adding another piece of XML to the schema I don't think it'll be a big problem there I figured as such but floating the ideas up everything is the ad uh I'm afraid they're really paraphrase or repeat what Jim said indeed it looks like it's better for Martin easier to swallow so cool and for the extension 2p spirit is only an XML extension stayed here right the only thing we will do the working group last score forward it to the regex okay and I think it's important because the architecture document was well the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "original registry document was so big so convoluted that we had everyone me Bob Stu everyone had a hard time deconflating things we kept putting things in buckets that we shouldn't have and I think this will clear it so now it's just like we thought oh Epp we have to change everything now we can yeah yeah the only point I would make as a chair is that we cannot I would say carry all these pieces in parallel because of the limitation of the resources we have so I and I need to discuss this with Danielle we are not planning to adopt any other documents rather than the dim architecture itself so that we can have some negotiations really I would say stable and then we if we have a sufficient energy in the working group to work in the other pieces we will not kick them but not in parallel that is find with me that's I have no issue with that next hi uh ajbl Naval Postgraduate School um just kind of looking through the the architecture and the mailing lists uh repo that's there there's not really a specification there is some RF link that advertises this um and I don't think it belongs in the architecture to specify it but I was wondering if the uh F you know the FCC or equivalent International bodies have said what RF frequency oh this would advertise on Okay so hahaha Stu's laughing um that is not defined here it is defined in ASTM oh yes FAA defined it and then ASTM used it yes that's true correct yeah so it's FAA side FAA said it has to work on why don't you answer that because I'm going to fumble and just drown and it will be sad right yeah well the architecture says someone on a cell phone picks it up that's a yeah uh where this came from is it the faa's aviation rulemaking committee strongly recommended and the FAA adopted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "that um any media to be used for this should be license free media that are readily available to any citizen ASTM then said that means Bluetooth 4 Bluetooth 5 Wi-Fi neighbor awareness networking and 802.11 Beacon and others as we may add later okay great thank you yeah if you want more context or whatever find the two of us and we will talk your ear off till the end of time oh boy alcohol just make it slurred and nasty okay so we kind of look up okay so unless there is any objection we can we will proceed with it with this plan so yeah it is time to speak once again okay thank you thank you all right uh I will get with the two of the uh uh Eric and Matt I will get with you directly after this let me know what I need to do well if I have to submit what whatever you want let me know and I will push it through probably either later tonight or Friday so that it's done before we even leave London okay thank you thank you thank you all right thank you guys Andre you're next can you hear me yes love don't care good um so I'm happy to present uh experiment update on behalf of myself and our students at Lynn Champion University Sweden next slide please we have implemented this reference architecture which is partly compatible with what rippers doing at the moment in terms of broadcasting messages from the Drone and receiving it at the application and we also have alternative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "implementation of registry now which is based on blockchain which might be something interesting for working group in future if you have energy to specified and maybe put it in separate draft but next please so as Adam mentioned we had very nice preparation for this IDF in terms of testing our mutual implementations our open source Adams's proprietary so we had also some success in hackathon in the in the Sunday to to identify some issues between our different implementations in our Android phone and also in the drip broadcast so mostly they are compatible but we identified some issues which are now being resolved so I think it was very nice and thanks Adam for for joining by the hackathon next please um as you know Bluetooth 4 is currently mostly used but it has limited range so and Bluetooth 5 can provide reception up to like one kilometer from from a flying drone so it's we are working on also adding both to five support which is a bit challenging in Raspberry Pi 4 because some drivers are not so up to date so we also tried some external dongles that we can connect and then uh try to to add this support and also in Bluetooth 5 in so-called new unit of computing which is Intel which we already like operating and testing but Raspberry Pi is still in in progress next please and our application for for Android for receiving direct data is uh in progress also uh so we used open drone ideas as a starting point but the problem it was requiring Google API key which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "requiring credit card and so on so we could not really publish ready packages but now we switch to open street maps version which is free so now we have on the trip application page we have ready APK and also we are in progress to Publishers Google Play app which unfortunately requires a lot of questions and answers and and still in progress but we hope to finish it within a few days next next slide please um so Hardware we use the Phantom 4 drone as a starting point with Raspberry Pi 4 and then this battery on the left side as well as GPS receiver so we just put it all together um and then as always when you start doing things in recover some funny stuff like for example the antenna was completely messing up the Drone system so we had to actually remove it but um um if you put the next slide we actually got it flying as you see on the left the Phantom drone in in a bag carrying the complete drip operational transmitter which has a GPS support and Bluetooth 4 and Wi-Fi and as you see on the application you can get the data about host identity tag of a drone and also the coordinates and on the right side you can see our back end which is a again not compatible with current registry draft but it's like what we produced so it's some kind of registry where you you can register your drone ID if the public key and so on which can be used like uh remote for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "remote queries see like what is the public key of a drone and then verify the a veteran identity and actually it's Backward Compatible with current standard which is not secure prone ID because it's uh kind of based on it text please um our next experiment uh area was using this so-called new unit of computing which is basically a normal PC but it's like small factor and it's 8 86 architecture which makes it a bit easier because Raspberry Pi is Arm based so it's easier to get like more up-to-date drivers on this um uh this nuke device and as you see here on the Matrix digitron it actually integrates fully with a drone in terms of API so it gets a power from a drone GPS data and other stuff so it's a bit less Hardware let's say even than using Raspberry Pi on Phantom also has 5G modem on the top and nice thing about this nuke it has the Bluetooth four five five so we could hold a test that together next slide so we have this nice big public demo event in Sweden by valenberg Foundation where we could fly this drone and actually test the range of ID that we could think at that time we had only Bluetooth four variables so we could have less than 200 meters range but as I mentioned in other tests in Bluetooth 5 we could have about a kilometer so which is much better and as well we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "um contributed to open Chrome ID patch developed by Intel to have GPS support for them and check that we are kind of Backward Compatible so that we can have both secure and insecure drone ID received on this on the same app and same same device so it's work working well excellent also we were analyzing this drip protocol with a tool called Tamarind or uh any errors in security specification and while in general we found that drip protocol is all secure except we identified some risk for replay attacks which we plan to communicate to draft coffers to see if there is anything that we need to fix but in general I guess it's a good sort of support for protocol going forward as we know with TLS latest version we had also full verification with turmering next please and as we know drip is using a host identity protocol for generating IDs and we are supporting open source implementation of it so there is a patches needed to implement latest draft such as hierarchical heat support new crypto like hudiak and so on and also we likely implemented Docker support so that it's easy to for example test on Mac device or any any other windows or device which doesn't have full Linux support so welcome to download it and try on your your own device next so one of the challenges we had is that uh now there is new openssl 3.0 and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "old SSL free one one one is going to be duplicated in a year which was pretty big change in open Heap code so we have the to you know change many things and uh the current status is that the code is compiling but it's still pretty Alpha so it needs more testing and um more verification but since type of priority thing due to duplication I hope we'll get it get it done before before the new year and then they also like tested not traversal and and some other stuff which might be useful for drip as well so let's that's it if you have any questions comments we'll be happy to take it foreign I have one for you before to get to the mic yeah so you have mentioned for for the last one that there is something that's going to be I would say broken for that part is there something that can be I would say fixed or this is not something that you have you have in mind so far yeah well to to fix replay attacks you need some kind of freshness freshness and nonsense and well if uh if a drone just let's say broadcast hait it's a lot of you know hard to just record it and broadcast it somewhere else right so so you need some kind of maybe what query report protocol it's you know Adam had this picture in his slides about sending a message but nobody can reply"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "to it right so it's okay same kind of thing are you yes yes Daniel we don't hear you Andre is still here um the formal analysis that you're undertaking is that on the protocol or on the implementation it's mostly on the protocol so we tried as you see in this picture to follow the protocol as close to as possible including all their drafts and the Registries and so on so it's in the protocol yes so I understand the replay attack being mostly ignorant to the use of broadcast yeah just because anybody can record HIV and property and then send it somewhere else right right but probably I'm up with my time so thanks thank you Andrew and still grew a really good gray bird for this idea thank you Andre so so now we are the last part of the open mic I don't know if you have any comments or any questions to uh to the chairs or do you the Ed or for the working Queen General you can get to the mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:07",
    "text": "okay if there's no commentating that we can we can adjourn here so thank you thank you for attending and see you next time in the um next drape session and thank you all for your work foreign foreign it was kind of things"
  }
]
