[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:41",
    "text": "[Music] are you we have okay this is an official many IETF meeting so we are going to use the mics we are gonna state our name can I have a note taker okay we have a very small group there are four people in the room so and three online so Lu you\u0027re currently logged in so we\u0027ll take terms of looking at the jabber and replying to comments that come through the agenda is we\u0027re currently on the agenda we\u0027re gonna go we don\u0027t have a note-taker but we\u0027re gonna use the audio to go back over it I suppose okay just overviews would be nice and then we can go through audio we\u0027re gonna go document status religion really quick we have D level "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:41",
    "text": "we have presentations dealer presentations from Lou and Rick and then we\u0027re gonna have open mic and open mic we\u0027re probably going to discuss what\u0027s going to happen with MANET or the way forward yes yes you may bash the agenda [Music] yes yes yes that was larger but we had more presentations show up at the last minute so that\u0027s definitely the topic of open discussion you want to have that now okay yeah yeah yes so you want to move that forward and shorten the presentations yes [Music] [Music] I\u0027ll start first as chair I think moving "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:42",
    "text": "D left to a different area if we can get more interaction would be fantastic a different working group maybe even a standalone working group or in another working group that it\u0027s appropriate to move it to uh I think that the energy from D lap if it were moved out of the working group would make this working group kind of go into hiatus and I think what\u0027s left is the multicast work which we don\u0027t have the energy to do right now and Willis our maintenance stuff that documents may show up and I think having a place that people wanting to do extensions on Ovilus are where would they bring them in and how would that work and as a as a group on hiatus I I don\u0027t know how that would work but I think that would be the way I would kind of want it to go with [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:43",
    "text": "can you hear me on this microphone this one here this one work and this one yeah this one works okay we have an alternate meaning we can now report with is a successful experiment yes Justin seriously Rick Tyler I three quick points point number one is that Stan Ratliff is also is is very keen in seeing the deal of work going forwards he can\u0027t make it for personal reasons he\u0027s gonna hopefully check the minutes so that\u0027s a one extra person in the room who isn\u0027t visible at the moment the other point was about SMF I was certain nd mbone him meeting on Monday morning and they\u0027re just about to start looking at things that SMF souls so there is a place for that SMF work if Manny was to boil off in some way so there\u0027s a home for that and the third thing was a plus one to lose comment about industry really wants deal apt to happen so although they\u0027re not here I bet half of them at a or in the audio stream and B they\u0027re just constantly coming to people sat in this room saying how\u0027s it looking when\u0027s this extension happening when\u0027s that happening is it done yet is it done yet is it done yet so is is it done yet is it done yet can I have my extension yet you know there are there are people who are you know industry has really woken up to it and are planning it for big expensive projects so no but so first thing first yes the look has to happen I mean that\u0027s the only thing that we have experience in now we got one two three the six person here which is okay nine people here so it\u0027s great I mean the elope needs to happen and now that we have you know probably other synergies because you know there were probably people there who listened and said oh that\u0027s probably cool maybe they didn\u0027t come here for a reason but you know I\u0027m hoping that we would maybe get to ten in the room Babel is also happening concurrent that was also happening right now and that\u0027s probably a good user yes Abdullah yes well right well and and they it\u0027s similar work I mean we have I had to convince one of the people in the room because he wanted to go to battle right there are probably people in that room who otherwise would have been here so it\u0027s an unfortunate conflict right so okay so we\u0027ve been talking about and I\u0027m just you know making this up as we go and eventually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:44",
    "text": "whatever we think we agree on we can go and talk to the other IDs and whatever so yeah the look needs to continue I agree that just changing the name no no we do so yeah they look nice continue I agree that just changing the name and saying this is now the deal of working group Republican end up in the same place well okay that may be one one option the other option is to put it somewhere else and maybe babble yeah they are using it I don\u0027t know they said today that they\u0027re finishing their main draft I don\u0027t know that would work the other option is of course to say are TWG now it\u0027s like five or six drafts I don\u0027t know how much easel you really has the bandwidth to take that on and if it\u0027s going to get diluted and lost and good move it into C camp the one thing is is that we\u0027ve actually had when we met we\u0027ve had hugely productive meetings because we have were so focused so one thing if we moved it into C camp instead of having an hour of really good high volume exchange and making progress we would get like 10 or 15 minutes make a report so I\u0027d be a little concerned about that so that\u0027s the same as moving at or TW GE or some other working group that is busy there\u0027s energy there so yes C camp yeah takedown LMP so and that\u0027s a very similar protocol it\u0027s just that the youth space is a little different so it sort of would make sense to combine it there from a technology standpoint but from a time standpoint I think we\u0027d really lose out I would like to suggest maybe we try it for moving it to C camp for a session have a joint session to see how it would work to see if people are interested to see if that work would be something that they would want to take on and if we want to as a working group would want to move it there and not make it a permanent thing to start but move it over there and see how that works as a joint session there\u0027s the current extensions Rick Tyler the two points firstly quickly back to do I think some of these extensions may take a while because we\u0027re sort of finding our feet I know you\u0027re very keen to see your extensions make progress but I also know there are others who would like to put on the reins a little bit on these going back to the the point of my presentation in the open meeting was that dilip has applicability outside of manet and my reservation for keeping it under the MANET umbrella is people who want to use it and say but I\u0027m not a man a I care about data center where I I think it has use names are important I know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:47",
    "text": "it\u0027s very easy to forget that actually they are important ok channeling jabber Henning says and we will get more extensions before the current ones are finished I think responding to what I would say so if we finish it\u0027ll be ready until we finish some accessories we\u0027re going to get more and more and more and ever do anything yes great Roland Holt I\u0027m actually concerned about the mission creep with the event it\u0027s going way beyond what it was originally intended for so I would like to see it used in the context of money primarily I was also hoping for the multi cost work to in money it hasn\u0027t happen so far although I know I\u0027ve heard rumors that there\u0027s something going on at several places but it\u0027s not being brought here what would what would did as messed up as I met or or whatever it was called the foreign information before information yes and I was not in a position to delete that in any way but I was hoping to sort of jump on the bandwagon so that that\u0027s kind of Justin Dean chair we have progress on our end we have software working we have some minor things written but our problem is getting it released and I mean I can\u0027t it it\u0027s a frustrating position to be in but it\u0027s I can\u0027t really say we have anything because we can\u0027t bring anything at this time so with that in mind if somebody else can that would be fine but we don\u0027t have the cycles right now or not the cycles we don\u0027t have the ability to bring forward the work which is unfortunate there will be a research group starting up probably next year that is heavily interested in that kind of work so keeping in the life would be good for that group which I am likely to participate in you know who they are you will you were somewhat connected to the predecessor of this of this group i steam on to four so how about we do this this is a lot again how about if we have the joint meeting next time and see you know what other\u0027s energy we get there and maybe other people commenting participating whatever I don\u0027t want to stretch this too long if we have no other work right so yeah I\u0027m happy to do one more cycle and meet together and see what happens there and maybe between here and there we make some progress on these drafts you know etc after the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:48",
    "text": "meeting or right before you know coming around there we make the decision of what we\u0027re gonna do with many yes itself right and after the joy meeting we can make a decision do we spin it off now we have enough interest we move it seek a meal what do we do at that point we\u0027re back to one mic it does mean that we\u0027re going to lose this sort of smaller high volume exchanges moving to another working group and that that\u0027s a management call of whether or not we as an organization whether the isg wants to have a small group that cares about one particular thing but it\u0027s really nice not to be in these big meetings where we\u0027re just there doing reports and you know there\u0027s we have you know five to ten minute maybe 15 minutes lots where we\u0027re really are doing two or three minutes of discussion and and this is very refreshing to be in this group where we go through points and have really nice discussions about everyone except what we probably want to do with the seachem people is you know approach the chairs I don\u0027t know how long as you can at this time full session was how long is the chair the glue I used to chair the group I mean there were times where we had slots that were seven and eight minutes because we just had so much stuff on the agenda and you know it was brief reports on here\u0027s where we are and here\u0027s what we\u0027re doing and we\u0027ll talk about it next time and you know okay so we need to figure out the logistics and I don\u0027t know if it in two and a half hours or whatever or if we do another session that is actually the joint session you know they have their own session we have I don\u0027t know because see the the the the thing is I like the fact that we\u0027re making progress however because this could have other applications and everything else you know maybe we\u0027re losing out on that and and I sort of feel like what you said that maybe the name matters and then gives us the opportunity to at least another cycle and then we make the call because if we need to move multicast out for example and put it in pin right even though you\u0027re gonna have interest etc you know then we need to do something because if there\u0027s nothing else that\u0027s going to come here because we can\u0027t disclose it or we can\u0027t do anything we need to put the working group to sleep or make some other decision justin tinium you mentioned moving him out are moving the multicast stuff out and and I just make sure that just to be clear because I know as you said you know there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:48",
    "text": "interest there in pretty much the same topic so if there was activity here I could tell them hey let\u0027s come to it here but there\u0027s our activity here then my reservation would be their focus in in the pin working group with regards to how Wireless works and getting that right I don\u0027t think that would be their focus okay exactly what they said on the mic was really caring about the link their properties specifically looking at 802 11 to start with but I had the real feeling they were about to start reinventing SMF from the ground up you know they were really looking at the RF properties of the links and I was just sitting thinking this is this is the SMF work and there and there was real energy in the room to get it done and that worried me slightly at some point Henning would like to get back to the future discussion so he has a question on feature creep so we don\u0027t want to lose that and in your reorg but we should get back to that at some point okay I will Ronit fault I was also thinking about IP wave which is currently concentrating on one hope situations for communication between vehicles and vehicles and infrastructure but may at some point come to the conclusion that they also need multi hope not now but maybe later yes so when I was being chartered I made that point because they wanted to in the Charter include the possibility of multi-hop and you know that sounds too much like routing to me I mean one hop I can to give one hop and one hop and hop and you know their routing but yes I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a good point as well because we could you know that and many in general just gels together so that that could work is that a better candidate for a joint meeting for D luck by P wave mo pow I think it would be worth exploring that with I think Russ and someone else are the chairs for that alright this is reading from Henny Henning I think it\u0027s in response to Arnold\u0027s comment earlier deal up for layer 3 radios is the addition thing that is happening do we have other feature creep beyond this I said I hope I said it was a feeling not based on very hard facts but I need to go read all your drafts and then I\u0027ll come back through this so forget it for now yeah the the there are certain things like multi-hop control that\u0027s a question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:49",
    "text": "of whether that\u0027s an extension or not the credit piece is was always always there was split out originally so that I would push back on but the other pieces I make sense it\u0027s a good question I I personally also think rolling with the gravitation and the the Q control and all that so I\u0027d like to kind of wrap this discussion up so we can get to the presentation so we can talk about technical issues I guess the way forward right now is we\u0027re gonna look for a joint session I\u0027ll talk with our arrow and Stan and come up with some suggestions if you guys have other suggestions write them on the mailing list and we\u0027ll try to do that for next go-around general consensus I\u0027m seeing it yeah it\u0027s a management thing but I\u0027d like to have feedback as well I got your Lou\u0027s feedback was he likes a small group of getting things done so yes it\u0027s important to keep the the time the the ability to do the work together as well Rick Taylor again I think something has to change I don\u0027t know what but I\u0027m in favor of changing something because I take Lou\u0027s point about a small focus group is Grace I can under private design team meeting but and yeah it\u0027s really productive but it\u0027s purely focused on the minutiae of dilip at the moment and is that what MANET is about so I don\u0027t know what the solution is but I\u0027m for some change in some way I\u0027m okay completely okay with doing an experiment I don\u0027t want to come off of saying don\u0027t do anything my question is is do we do two experiments because it sounds like the routing pieces there\u0027s good synergy and with one group while the D lab maybe a different group so you might want to think about doing two experiment an experiment with two parts yeah well I think right now we focus on D lab because that\u0027s the active work if we had other active work then maybe we can think about something else right so on to the presentation from Henning multicast routing is hard because we lack good OS support for may be joining the PIM joining with PIM might be a way to tackle this so I think this is going this is similar to the same comment about working with two different groups and Henning you can come in if you have a mic you can just draw in through me deco Hennig do you have a bike he\u0027s going to try "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:53",
    "text": "Lu I\u0027ll draw I can dry for you and I can look at that it\u0027s someone else jump on to jabber some reason I don\u0027t have a monitor in front of me well that it\u0027s not plugged in put it on this mine not this well I have a bunch of extensions to talk about one more slide yeah thanks so we have four extension excuse me we have four extensions we\u0027ve been working on they\u0027ve all been updated these slides are actually out of date we did another update since this so we pushed out an update there were a bunch of comments we then did a quick update to address try to capture all the comments I feel like there was one cop oh yes there was one comment that hasn\u0027t been addressed but it\u0027s actually actually discussed in the slides so we\u0027ll cover that one as a reminder there\u0027s actually code out there and you know we\u0027ve been talking about open source so sorry container just jumping in viki\u0027s actually sent a pull request to David with some updates for your dilip code for 81-75 complete so oh that\u0027s awesome so it\u0027s not my code I haven\u0027t done anything with it right right but you said your code and I\u0027m just okay I actually have nothing to do with it so but that\u0027s awesome hopefully he looks at it and does something with it so we\u0027ve had some good discussion on latency range and in particular the question is is whether or not we should make this a generic thing oh well excuse me go back and forth oh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:54",
    "text": "so some of the good discussion has been whether it would make it a generic thing and the answer we gave the last time which is the same answer I brought up again is that if we ended up making a generic we would have to have some sort of subfield inside the data item to identify which what what metric the range apply to and to me that seems like what we\u0027re doing is just doing the same thing that we have a data item type are ready to do and if we were if the number space itself was scarce it would make sense to do two levels of dispatch so to speak you know so I still think it doesn\u0027t make sense I think it makes sense to do a latency sorry a metric range on a per data item basis rather than have a generic field which then had another field inside it that said that the data the metric type we just have the data item type say what type of metric it is so this same range approach could be taken for any metric and when when doing so we\u0027re gonna share we\u0027re gonna share when doing so you would just change the data item type for that range okay Rick Tyler you have convinced me to go in this direction but I think your logic is wrong if there was a sub data item type in the range extension then there\u0027d be a single data item type at the top level saying this is a metric min max tre data item sorry and the the sub code would be the same code as defined by the metric so and I can\u0027t remember the numbers off my top of my head but whatever CDR data item type is its so you there wouldn\u0027t be an explosion in number space you\u0027d have where m is the number of metric data items you\u0027d have m plus 1 because you\u0027re adding one extra data item type whereas in your example for every data item type that you want a min and a max you think of two M because you\u0027re having to add a second data item type so I think that logics flawed but I can see where you\u0027re coming from I think we\u0027re somehow talking past each other but violently agreeing so I think we\u0027re okay the one thing about what you\u0027re saying is is that you would have to consider how do you indicate the support and you would end up still with an additional extension so you really haven\u0027t bought much so I I think we\u0027ve ended up in the same place even if our logic is identical and we just talking past each other or for completely different reasons we\u0027re in agreement that\u0027s the diet or high order bit the other open issue is whether or not we want nanosecond range versus microsecond range we use microseconds because that\u0027s what\u0027s in base D left and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:55",
    "text": "frankly you know Henning proposed that I doesn\u0027t matter to me so whatever we think question coming from from Henning okay that what happens if we start to add smoothed over time or variance t lv 1 for each metric type sounds right I mean you so do you want min max variance is that what you want now what are you heading can you propose make a specific proposal of what you\u0027d like to see and maybe join the room and let\u0027s try your mic out he can\u0027t get in or he tried but he wasn\u0027t able to get the mic working oh it\u0027s a local problem no we we see you now you can try now you mean well ooh okay it was just me misusing the program and the point is that this min Max is some kind of statistics over the offer an existing metric type and there are other important or maybe even interesting forms of Statistics the radio could supply so we have this type explosion we have at the moment if we do min maxing for all metrics we would have to M metrics if we say yeah we want to have the variance because variance is something important we want to know if this value is stable of it\u0027s fluctuating back and Falls or on this normal average we know then we have assert for each metric so the idea having some kind of generic statistics here B\u0027s that refer back to an existing metric type and say yes I providing minimum maximum boundary for this metric I\u0027m providing a very calculated variance or moving average for some kind of metric this might something we should think about because otherwise the theory space and the amount of our C\u0027s we need to define them gets quite large well we do have to the 16 values available so we have enough space and if we are defining these each in their own thing then we\u0027re going to need an extension for each so even if we don\u0027t have we\u0027re not filling up our data item space we will be filling up our extension space which i think is also to the 16 so I\u0027m not sure we\u0027re really buying anything by doing the this second-level index what I do think is would be interesting is if you think we should be at this point adding something like variance or adding other parameters next to our min Max or we should do we should discuss that and if you have some specific proposals perhaps add them to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:57",
    "text": "this to this draft justin dean i think i think given the amount of space we have and the requirements for different metrics and wanting this right now and not knowing them it seems over engineering to design it in a way that heading and mentioned and I\u0027m kind of I\u0027m kind of with Lou and that you define it you to find a new data item type that has the min max in it and yeah it\u0027s time to but most metrics will will define what it that metric needs and not all metrics are going to need the same things are going to need their own different kind of variance and they\u0027ll mean different things to different metrics so I think trying to design one to solve them all at this point is unnecessary tailor the the reason I came around to liking this as a single data item type was actually nothing to do with the explosion in number space it was to do with the fact that as you start to dip into statistical data on a variation of metrics you start to lead away from the delet model of timely information about the change of metrics and you start to go into oh well I can just tell you for the lifetime of this session it\u0027s gonna be min this next that standard deviation of this and not get that real-time reporting and I think it could lead to a precedent of that\u0027s a correct way to implement your deal app it\u0027s become aware it\u0027s become obvious to me over time talking to implementers that guidance on how to do this properly is very important because there\u0027s there\u0027s always a bit of wiggle room in in a protocol and we have to be careful particularly with metric reporting though we don\u0027t allow people to use it in ways we didn\u0027t want them to okay not much I was looking at up right now okay because there are a few points that I think are really important that I want to make sure to get to so one is I\u0027m gonna do this really quickly how many think we should stick with nanoseconds how many think we should stick with microseconds this isn\u0027t voting this is just to get a feel for whether people have opinions my only objection to nanoseconds Rick Taylor is that the rule latency metric is in microseconds and then someone will say oh I can use this because I want a nanosecond latency is that okay with people because I can bet someone will say I need nanosecond so I\u0027ll set the min and Max to the same value so presumably Hennig and you can speak up if you disagree you like nanoseconds because you want to propose it who sort of likes again just getting a feel who likes nanoseconds nano nano so heading do you do you like nano or do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:57",
    "text": "you are you just thinking about it you you just left you could have just started talking okay I\u0027m not I suggest that nanoseconds because we have a huge of 64 bits I think 64 bits in nanoseconds is still a three digit year so enough for even interstellar communication and I see radios where the timing already slipped into the sub microsecond area where we say yes we see LTE and the success of 80 in this day are talking about yet they want to guarantee one MA one millisecond range and it\u0027s microsecond and they have some timings that are already sub microsecond so do we really want to say that all these timings they are just one in our metric because we cannot encode them and we don\u0027t need the upper 16 bits of the value we are transmitting anyways so we are wasting we can afford to waste a few bytes in D lab that\u0027s not a problem but we don\u0027t lose much by by defining a value like latency in nanoseconds we still have all the range we need and we will not be in a trouble when 60 gigahertz or 120 gigahertz radio coming on time so sorry sorry dinner I think you feed your point yeah so I\u0027m a huge fan of consistency within a protocol but I think you\u0027ve also made a compelling point I look to the chair to see what we should do does anyone object permanently to nanoseconds Richter don\u0027t object to nanoseconds if there is clarification in the document on how you use the microsecond latency data item in Cordele app alongside this nanosecond value I word - your proposed text and a new co-author thank you thanks for that all right deal on multi-hop forwarding so we\u0027ve had a point that we have reserved fields because they look nice on paper who cares we can do we are over TCP that we really need them and I think that\u0027s fine to strip them out I think I already did it actually so yeah let\u0027s kill those and there was also a correction on what message type to carry it in I think I already made that change I might have actually published this with the with that removed I just it\u0027s been a long week I did it on Monday morning so we\u0027ll strip that so control playing base pause we remember what this this was all about it\u0027s it\u0027s a way of on a per dscp basis to say hey stop don\u0027t send the reason "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:58",
    "text": "we\u0027re doing this versus let\u0027s say something like Ethernet pause or PFC is that you can pause on a destination basis so we did a little bit of a change or reformatting to support the concepts that of containers from rick this was discussed in 98 I believe we actually published it before 99 and did a little bit of a review and we have some informational and informational element and then basically an array of cue items and each cue indicates the number of BSC peas [Music] we\u0027ve had some discussion on the list one thing was do we need both pause and credit my view is these are different use cases we have some simple systems and some complex systems and so based on that scenario we would have a radio or modem that would support one or the other don\u0027t really expect a system never do both can I ask a quick question Rick Taylor what is the difference between pause and the credit window with one token in it I think pause is a mechanism already the ethernet driver to define please stop talking for some fixed time if I\u0027m correct yes no we\u0027re not we\u0027re not talking about using Ethernet pause oh sorry the actual main proclaimed based pause the ethernet pause as possible we don\u0027t need to actually specify anything to do that the the the I think the big difference is sort of the complexity around managing a credit window from an effective from the bandwidth on the wire it\u0027ll be the same the big difference from a theoretical standpoint is credit should be work conserving while pause is not so pause you basically say there may be gaps on your wire on your media with pause but it\u0027s really simple to implement so that I can understand why you\u0027d want to do credit over pause but I also understand the complexity of pause complexity of credit well and I would I would comment Justin Dean I would comment that having two separate drafts if somebody were to implement something and they wanted something simple they would not do the credit and they might do the pause extension so that in terms of getting it out there and getting people who want to say hey can you can you do this for me and they they say yes I can I support this RFC I support this feature versus I support credit but only with one window that\u0027s a little you\u0027re not gonna ask "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:58",
    "text": "anyone to do that question about pause and credit can we have a text that describes how to implement pause with the credit tier bees saying this is a valid simple approach using the v\u0027s they to define something like Paul\u0027s because this whole credit window is too complicated we want the more binary stuff I must write completely rather there is a crafter as opposed proposal try to unify the mechanisms as much as possible we\u0027ve done that we haven\u0027t I have a proposal how to do that and that\u0027s what\u0027s on the screen it\u0027s not quite what you just said because it\u0027s not a zero credit or a small credit that\u0027s still requires full full mechanism implementation rather than do that we can use some commonality of a common traffic classification data item which is the same thing that we already have in the other document where we have a classification identifier we have the diffserv identifier and then we have this thing called a flow identifier which is common which is which really helps give you the the information that we\u0027re doing pause instead of credit and so we can unify it it is a little bit more complex it does increase the complexity of pause but it also means there\u0027s commonality so if you were writing a common stack it\u0027s nice if you\u0027re trying to understand both it\u0027s nice if you\u0027re only doing pause you\u0027ve made it more complex so the simple case is a little more complex to understand reality is I don\u0027t know so I I personally am fine with this it\u0027s I it works pretty nicely I didn\u0027t go and change the draft to do this I thought it was important to discuss it but you know it\u0027s certainly very doable Rick Taylor again I was really hoping you were going to do this I was going to ask you if you had thought about doing this because I could see so much commonality between the two and some of the dis list discussions with Henning about well s can we start talking about flow IDs in terms of metrics and so it all starts to drop out of this the question might be and this is one for the chairs is do we want to talk about flow IDs in their own document to just talk about flow IDs that then pause can talk we refer to and crediting can refer to and metro could refer to so I\u0027m trying to find if I did that slide no I didn\u0027t do a slide on that so we certainly can do that and III think we should get agreement on the mechanisms and once it\u0027s done look at it and say alright we want to break the documents up or not and then sort of treat that as a document formatting problem I like it I would be fine having "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:02",
    "text": "a base document and other ones referring to sorry a common document another referring or one that says go use this information element from this other document so either approach works for me you just have to decide but let\u0027s get the technical details work and then the right and then decide how to break it apart one comment about these drafts which might also support from pushing the flow ID stuff out of the draft the problem that I noticed is that dscp might be IPSec protected so it ma it might it cannot be the radio that says oh you have to use these DHCP values to address mic use it must be the router to tell the radio oh you have this ques I want to assign the following DSC piece to it because DHCP is an end-to-end fixed value so it is defined by the policy of the network so I I think I disagree with that statement but there is really there\u0027s a related comment that supports the same conclusion which is what happens if I want to do my traffic classification using some other fields and by having a common thing that you can refer to we will reuse the same components the the way the credit is currently designed and that\u0027s what my nice animation is all about got to go look at that slide 11 I like that animation but it is basically saying that our credit control is now completely separated from our traffic control and that you can reuse the identical traffic control mechanisms when we use a when we use a new traffic classification we use new identifier z\u0027 of the the traffic so we could certainly break this apart actually into four documents if they want so at some point we\u0027re gonna have to decide how many documents let\u0027s get the details right I think credit window is in much better shape than it was the last time I think it implements everything except it doesn\u0027t have this new name yo but the items in blue is that are the new names right now that they\u0027re called see IDs and I\u0027ll just change them to flow IDs so that that\u0027s that\u0027ll be a change that I\u0027ll do afterwards and then we can decide whether or not we\u0027re ready to go the one thing there we still have an open issue I really wanted to discuss this we don\u0027t have time so we\u0027ll have to take the list so please look it\u0027s slide 13 in this package and discuss on the list have some good suggestions on how we should deal with router limits that\u0027s the one real open issue Rick Taylor very quick response to Henning Henning your comment about the route of being able to tell the modem what queues to assign I consider that management and configuration and out of the scope of deal app I think the the radio should report back to the route or what it has been configured to do a deed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "up is never a management protocol and we need to push back against suggestions to put management in well I don\u0027t know that that\u0027s yes I\u0027m with we\u0027ll have discussions on that yes we should the clicker did you turn that off no he just turned it off yeah oh I don\u0027t know here we go okay I\u0027ll keep it quick because I\u0027m probably short on time develop link identifier so try to try the clicker if it works yes it does okay so what\u0027s the problem the problem is that Dena as it currently stands requires a contiguous layer to domain okay so your MAC address is used as your identifier for your develop destination and it has to be a valid MAC address which is good in general but there are an increasing number of use cases where this is a problem number one layer 3 radios they exist some of us may think that that is not the right way to do your meshing but they exist so let\u0027s support them so in case we layer 3 radio the MAC address of the destination is just not a reachable Mac it\u0027s it\u0027s not valid the other example is also interesting which is where you\u0027ve got a wireless link to some sort of infrastructure so your your radio link isn\u0027t is it in an access point mode so you\u0027re either on the far end of a 3G LTE style connection where there isn\u0027t another end delet router but there\u0027s definitely a link you want some information about or agit or 11 access point so the solution to this I propose is a new identifier that goes alongside the MAC address data right and those who read the earlier draft I was replacing the MAC address data item I was convinced that was a silly idea so there is a new data item that effectively parameter eise\u0027s that mac to say beyond the MAC address in this message there are one or more links that have different capabilities so those are just good link IDs key points are they are opaque you cannot read any meaning into them they are invented by the modem as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:02",
    "text": "it sees fit they\u0027re 32-bit that\u0027s plenty because they\u0027re not meant to be anything new has a question so your original proposal had variable like yeah with variable length you can do a whole lot of things yeah I would suggest that either you put a maximum length or go with one of the proposals alternative proposed alternatives on the list which was to have a per session value it was basically it\u0027s based on the implementation the day on possession they\u0027re not unique they\u0027re not persistent their position and they are per destination length was per session there\u0027s one of the proposals on the list my problem with that I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m trying to keep it quick is that involved in negotiation step which I have managed to avoid so make it fixed but selectable mate so the field is variable in implementations does one value let\u0027s argue this on the list yeah I think I think 32-bit if you\u0027re just doing 32 bits this becomes uninteresting okay just to clarify through these points link ID is a unique per MAC address so if you\u0027ve got two links at each of the egress points of the layer two domain they could both they can all be called one and two because they\u0027re it\u0027s your destination ID is the tuple of Mac plus link out that Mac there there are many examples in routing where we use the routing protocol to distribute some information that comes from that\u0027s that\u0027s learned from an attach station or has learned from something else and it\u0027s distributed through a routing protocol some to some degree develop is a simplified routing protocol so careful sorry heresy I mean I like it but so we have a lot of experience doing that type of thing and that\u0027s what you were bringing in with lids and that was great but 32 bits is in and off look I\u0027m happy to discuss that and make changes I just picked a number because I was running late on time critical thing is if you\u0027re using the layer to deter items you\u0027ve got to include some layer 2 information otherwise they\u0027re entirely useless so you must have an IP address or a subnet it\u0027s quite conceivable to advertise where your default route lives you can say I only have one destination and it\u0027s the internet so I have the MAC address of the last hop in the layer 2 and a single lead which could be value 0 and an attached subnet data item of zeros are Sara are you saying layer 3 is required with the use of lids I thought that was the to use case it for the two use cases I have provided you need to have layer 3 information because I\u0027m solving the layer 3 problem by using lids if you can think of a use case of using lids absolutely then okay we can relax that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "yeah I suggest check the text in the document and see I must soar in the wrong place yeah maybe I at from an earlier version I don\u0027t know right okay I think this is getting pretty complete and I\u0027d like working group adoption is the short answer because it\u0027s still my individual draft or you\u0027re interested in the document so Lou yes Vicki yes I know there\u0027s externally ghost in - yes I think that\u0027s look for comments on the list but yes it looks like something we can do Britton thank you and we finished on time two minutes left if anyone wanted to say anything else we switched around the agenda but I think it went well as could be no enjoy the rest of the idea and see see comments on the list [Music] "
  }
]