[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "it was bad in New York actually in Montreal it it was pretty bad but I mean we almost escaped that um but a few weeks I mean last a few days ago it was more or less the same immortal it's good here at the moment but I'm suspecting within a couple days it's not into next week we might see something but so far it's been clean I haven't been getting warnings on my phone like I was the week that was really bad it's just muggy here and rainy [Music] it seems that we won't have a lot of attendees today oh he's like the interim starts in 40 minutes and I'm like I'm sitting in the waiting room I just started sitting here 30 minutes before it started yeah yeah but anyway all right if we keep it short that's nicely I don't mind that answer me for jumping down beside the French speaking stuff here oh God I'm screwed I haven't done French since seventh grade and I failed it we need I mean Among Us right obviously it's two step forward and I said yeah of course you are a right one but I would prefer and sorry Adam to put pressure on you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "that Adam is there because I mean you will be there in 20 years right why neither students know me will be no pressure it's a big smile right think about it yeah uh oh God okay so yeah I am scared I'm always scared it's just my default you've known me for two years Eric I'm always scared no no no I mean you're usually and I don't want this meeting being about you of course right but you're obviously taking more roles within the ITF which is cool which you have all my support for this even if it's stuff different than drip so yeah we need somebody um for taking this lyrical hit a prefix about history because yeah we can hope that we could be taking over by other Industries than us yeah no I'm I'm totally fine taking that role good I expect to be something when I did drip I expected I was gonna get something because it was probably going to be registry somewhere else yeah yeah as soon as an RFC is on your name you gotta expect something that's gonna stick with you so please send me an email I saw your email a while I saw your email yeah it was and then I was just like I will see if someone responds but I will I will gladly oh the response I got is only one is from Stu and you completely understand that I prefer somebody which is cannot the same profile uh uh I mean myself we are the old generation right so we need to get the new one uh and now new one is also you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Danielle and and Med right if you want to step forward in this so now I'm going to be scared there's nobody showing up say S miracle is spinning for him so reattached so um did you send a reminder email maybe you're just right now just to be sure I know Bob is not going to be here Stu's going back to First principles he's rebooting his router please send why do you claim it on the router it's not the Cisco one okay [Laughter] but you can claim you haven't seen the note well yet somewhere it doesn't know well you know actually most of the IHG core right like tomorrow are starting with this kind of Chit Chat and joking right so yeah I just start and then hope that the others can can join and jump in so I think that's yeah the key pen holder is with us so we can put all the action on him so he will accept the default Adam that's it yes yeah so yeah Daniel please please go ahead so please look at the not well now [Laughter] so for those if you have any question um let us know we need a note taker I'm sorry yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "that's that's you Eric no no no no no no I open it and at least start it oh I need to sign in that's unfortunate wait I mean basically we need one right so we can do it if somebody volunteers based on the recording uh that's not the preferred solution but that's one way of doing it yeah thank you to do it so I I think hand waving was a volunteering to be the note taker at that point Hi Stu okay looks like the thumb up and please keep your camera on right there's more friendly personally if you're okay so um so we I mean the agenda is quite expected so um we will have this discussion on Registries on the the yeah I mean the registers but I mean the the code points and then on the registries um so the next step Med do you want to say something special or um yeah yeah foreign at some point about the future of the um of the working groups once we have I would say the authentication and the registry done whether we we stop here or we continue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "um so that's something that they'd like to to have formally between us to to judge whether there is I would say sufficient energy for us to to continue but for that I prefer yeah to um to put the authentication and the registers on the right path and send it to Eric for I would say that the next and hopefully over the next steps yeah I think yeah we can we can we can go back to the um to the some code points just to to see that everyone has the same I would say understanding of the current situation and then to uh that we agree on the next steps for the authentication specifications so talking uh component of this question has been going through the what we call the iatf LLC which is basically the official organization of the I8 yet getting the money right this is basically you know him so that's where you get the credit card the payment the invoice basically they follow what the isg meaning in this case me meaning in this case this working group will ask so for the 400 uh from my Geo there was other discussion with the trust because the Trust on all the copyright the logos and everything so do they also own the code points there was some discussion but typically no so we have solved this kind of lawyerish saying inside I'm not sure what everyone was in copy but evening is sold so first step we need to get accio shop page working again it worked for one day but it doesn't work today at least for me right once it's done I will send copying the working group uh or the chair can do it but then I will approve but I think it's easier if I I sell it my own put it in the working group and the executive director meaningless please order for some code points for the amount of four and with dollars yeah well into that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "once we get them we will I mean obviously give them to the to the draft orders we will create normally a Nayana page copying the data right we've clearly indicated to its code forms are coming from Ikea with a reference we do it from multiple e because most of the people are looking at in a page for good points and everything ready to RSC and then we go um basically we can clear the queue of documents I still hope to get a reply to the liaison statement to astn yeah the right way to doing it is going to Ikea but and so on uh it will not be blocking if you don't get okay so basically IQ web page going on myself sending an image copying everyone requesting ietf protocol LLC so the guy with the money in the credit card to get the good points once you get them because it's a process within Akio and ASTM we make an INR page and we update the draft independently I still hope to get an ASTM reply to the liaison statement not binding is it okay for everyone yeah um yeah go ahead okay so I just did one question to Eric um agree with the Ayanna setting up a registry that would have to be part of the auth draft right so once I get the code points I just have to create an Ianna consideration section and create the registry point and everything in that draft and insert the points there is that how that would go or would that be out of band no there's Goods like this you will get four points right so it would be up to you to select this code point is for this function this good point is for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "this function understand okay okay hopefully we'll get zero one two three or one two three four right one two three four probably yes so so and the the other step one we have I would say the uh document updated with the I would say the formal could point at our assigned by the Ikea so then we'll have to figure out whether we have we will need another last call just to to make sure that everything is okay um we used to have two in the past so I'm not expecting to to have major issues on this on this version but just for um it is always good to have I would say some fresh eyes so I will revive some of the direct threat review requests for this one that we didn't received especially the ones from the from the UPS uh so that's that will be on our side once you update the version uh sure okay and you know I vaguely I mean I'm not following drip is is all of you are doing and yet in mind we got the foursome types but you get another good point from STM to get as well is wrong no so the other one is the specific session ID and that's already dealt with uh because it was burned into the ASTM standard yeah so it's already it's already given to us we don't have to worry about it thank you Adam for the confirmation thank you yep and I updated their information spreadsheet for it to be placed in the registry so with the iesg uh email contacts and whatnot so perfect thanks yep okay another point on the authentication document I have nothing else for the auth document um okay I'm really just waiting on the same codes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "okay so I didn't check the the issue trackers to see if there's something that will stale or dormant there just to for the sake of I would say making sure that we are not we didn't forget anything but I will do that later but I trust you Adam that you um if you clean the the issue that means that they are fixed and the I would say the text was updated yeah but I I will do my checks anyway so yes okay so I think that we uh we can move to the next the next part on the registration sure so I am actually don't have terribly much for us today um I've been bogged down with a couple other things but I've been just chipping away at the reviews um so we just went over all this that's the portal there's experiencing technical difficulties woo um this is literally my last slide so I'm working through the review comments right now slowly but surely I'm hoping to get the new version out by the end of the week I thought the burn term was Thursday then I saw the email from Eric that said it was today and I was like oh yeah no I'm not going to be able to make that so um I'm working my way through the comments that I mentioned in the last interim from the various uh reviewers um any feedback on the resource record would be helpful um high level whatever um that's really where I am so I'm just chipping away at it yeah just one one clarification question a question sure I received multiple I would say a subscription from Jim from the mailing list so did you did did you reach out with him with this work or is that on purpose that he unsubscribed from the uh from the mailing list hit unsubscribe yeah I didn't I saw that every time I tried to send something went wrong"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "may I just simply indicate that Jim email setup is running his own email server like I'm doing and it's pretty parano you don't do email send via the ATF but the ATF is coming free using an EP address from the Comcast residential prefix so Jim is refusing some email from the ITF so they are bouncing so it's removed from the mailing list so don't take gems removal right or the declining email uh as James will that's only the configuration of Jim's email server okay thank you thank you for the clarification Eric because I was confused about this so and concerned about the I would say the studies of this of this of this document so yeah okay yeah no you may want to pay again because it doesn't see it see it because obviously remove that message she doesn't get it either ah okay yeah so you may want to okay so Adam if you can just please reach out with him just I'll reach out to him I'll wear that too I'll reach out to Jim and let him know I figured he was probably aware of it but I will if you're still getting them I will let him know right now that there's a problem with his email server where is Jim yeah I'll do I'll do that right after this meeting so uh I can I'll contact him um through another means so that he can fix that otherwise though I really don't have much to add today like the code points I thought we would have the code points by now but then the website went poof oh wait Jim is here hello Jim we spoke his name so many times he just appeared"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "maybe that's miteco that uh you know yeah I mean they have a an AI engine that said okay they're talking about that guy they're just flipping it up so Jim I was simply explaining to the other participants that you have problems receiving emails from the ietf mail server right so because you were disconnected and removed from some mailing list yeah now problem has been sorted out there we go are they hooray yes you're not speaking there you go you're good okay so yeah I think we've moved on to the topic of a working group future is that correct I'm unless Jim has anything to add about Registries but no I've got nothing to add about that um one thing I would like to mention though I think it's been an issue for Eric on this call is I think we still need to get something done at ieb level to sort out this business of the delegation of this IPv6 prefix um now notice that you've done something about asking for extra expert review of for the hsit stuff which is part of this thing but I think we still have those bigger problems how we're going to deal with this issue because it's not clear to me what the rules are going to be here because I think Ayana needs some more guidance on how this can actually proceed with the delegation but I think that you see a consecutive statement from and imagine the IB to say is this space is set aside for such and such a purpose and so and so is authorized to speak for the IEP and how this space"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "gets carved up please talk to them whenever you get requests for delegations I think that's what has to happen they could be wrong about that exactly and you're right there there is of course the difference between delegating the reverse DNS resolution let's say as well as allocating a prefix right so that's the two things are not I mean yeah and there's a bit of a desk really um yeah so there's also a bit of a disconnect headache because my impression is Bob thinks because of that FC that says this chunk of space is set aside from drip he thinks it's done and dusted there's no more to discuss here it's a done deal but of course it's not there are some thing to be done on let's say the business relationship side not so much on the technique oh so Jim may I ask you to send to the list three lines summarizing this and I will reply on the action point so everyone is aware uh sure we try to keep things too big right um for archiving and so for interesting people yeah I think it might be good for us to get together for a beer in San Francisco or a cup of coffee or other tasty beverage and see if we can get everybody lined up in this whole thing um and be good as Bob said I don't know if Bob's planning to go to San Francisco or not he put me for another working group he cannot be there on Friday because he's traveling back so I I think he will be there and I okay my trip is not meeting as far as I know in San Francisco but book will be there you will be there looks like and I will be there yeah I'll check up I also check out with Ken to see if he's going to be there but it would be there yeah yeah he's already there I think well I mean Los Angeles but uh yeah it's not that far away right yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "at the U.S scale I mean we think so back to Easter yep um no that's fine um it was important that we touched on on that first so on the future of the meeting group of the working group um I have to uh admit that that I share everyone's disappointment that we have not had uh more participation than we have had it's been a real struggle you know with just our our ad our chairs um you know me as the guy who who uh promoted this in the first place to the ITF Adam Bob Jim and and that's about it you know we've had occasional participation from a couple of others um and so it's you know we've really struggled to get critical mass um flip side um what we have done thus far is getting attention outside the iatf um ASTM is taking this quite seriously for their so-called a2x which is aircraft everything Communications and um the FAA which is the civil aviation um Authority here in the U.S um had ignored it uh for quite some time but now they are paying attention um the most recent um experiment slash demonstration that we did at the New York uas site had no fewer than 15 staff from the FAA who attended and were you know asking questions and and observing demonstrations of of the authentication capability that we've added that is absent from the the you know the Baseline standards that they'd adopted from ASTM so um uh you know it's a it's a struggle you know on the one hand we just don't have the the level of participation that we need for this to be a really viable working group but on the other hand the few of us who have um you know produced something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "um that's something that has been produced is is getting attention outside iatf um and and it was our intention right from the start that there'd be kind of two rounds of drip that the first round would just be to make uas remote ID information trustworthy right and then the second round would be to make that information useful you know to establish uh you know command and control links and and all that sort of other stuff and so Bob has been pouring uh forging on the head um in in writing his you know um independent stream drafts um of all these various applications of our Baseline protocols and so he asked me uh yesterday via email that I uh push in this interim um that you know he would like to see some of those drafts adopted come come 117 by the working group and obviously to adopt them we'd have to still have a working group um and the reason that he's not with us this morning is you know because of this attention that we've been getting outside ITF he's been pulled into something at uh Embry Riddle aeronautical uh University which has invited him to come and give a guest lecture on all this so anyway I just wanted to bring that to all of your attention uh Slash rant yeah thank you thank you stu for for providing this this context but but anyway I think that we would have more I would say an opportunity to talk about all all of this once we have always said the um the remaining two documents to um uh sent to uh to uh to to Eric for Publications I have seen the message for example that was sent by Bob for requesting for the adoptions to be frank with you um I didn't discussed it with with Daniel but personally I want I want to be open to to accept any new documents for for the working group till we have I would say um uh final versions of the registration and authentication and then we can start I would say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "um doing yeah the this exercise for us to reassess the engagement of every I know that's it's it's really hard for this small group this is a niche and I understand that we have to help the this kind of Industries to join to the ATF so that's why we I think that's we have to understand that that um but we need also to uh to see how we can engage other participants from the ATF so that this is not just the work of Adam and two but the work of the ATF so there is some subsidization to be done for example if you can consider for example publishing some of the work we are doing in the internet Journal so that people can see this work to attract them doing some of the socialization for example that in other venues I don't know which one but we need to discuss this so for us also to to tell people yeah this is something which is interesting how this interact with interface with the other work in 3gbp and so on so that's that's this is useful and this is not just publishing I would say a document that I want to be read by everyone so this is an exercise for all of us but as I said we need to um to have this discussion once we have the the two Romanian document on a good track but of course we are open to uh to opinion comments and and so on and just to add to you man I mean I fully agree with what Stu and you said by the way uh the hope of drip was to bring other new people I mean already to the space industry right now I understand based on the interaction with ASTM and Akio that they are way more formal than the eight yet they're more top down than bottom up and a few things like this you may want to make clear that some working group at the ietf are never meeting at the physical meeting only doing remote like this one interims and they do work and those interims are free right so if money or whatever"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "consideration is important from stn FAA Ito or CFA or ESR or whatever there is a solution in Open Door I don't know to whom to speak to say this right but you may want to to interact there thank you so it looks like that causes silence yeah mostly hints do I think are capturing all the words back and forth um yeah I I agree with first off with Stu's comments obviously um with the the interest we're seeing outside and other works that we're doing both in estm with the uh aircraft to everything work and the multiple times we've seen the FAA they have shown interest um with every demo and it's grown larger and larger with each successive demo that we've done um there might be some discussions with some vendors on our side we're not quite sure yet um and I agree with Med that we should reassess before adopting more documents because of this you know somewhat lack of outside participation um participation um the only document that I would push against that on is the DKI document but obviously you know I would go to consensus right that the consensus of the group is no we're not going to adopt it we can pull it back into the registry document if we need to um we'll just have to drag Bob along I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "think um and finding how to engage um so let's do yeah I'd just like to to clarify um you know what you were just saying uh at Bob's request I did bring to you all just now that he is requesting consideration of adoption of various of his drafts but personally I agree with I think it was mad who said it may have been Daniel that um better to wait until we get the Baseline if you will fundamental set of core drip drafts through the RFC status before we you know add on a bunch of new work but um because of the repeated restructuring of how Handler Registries one of Bob's drafts the the DKI um that's that has kind of become a core document um so Adam would indeed need to pull some of the stuff that's in the DKI draft back into his registry draft or we would need to adopt the DKI draft one or the other in order to have a complete usable set of core uh drift documents and I leave it to wiser heads than mine to decide which path uh is more appropriate I will just mention one other thing which is I'm not a great cheerleader and I'm not a great recruiter and I I seek all of your help in trying to promote this work to the broader iitf Community to see if we can't get you know a couple of more contributors in here but I I have the impression that um I mean the people that have to be recruited are probably outside the idea okay that I may be able to do right I can I can uh I can twist the arms of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "some of these people in Iko and ASTM and maybe rtca and maybe IEEE and say we could really use a hand over here in in ietf thank you exactly and we can also extend maybe into the security part of the ATF as well initially this working group was within the security area with Ben karuk if you remember I mean the creation was started initiated by him and then moved to int mainly because I like flying basically okay so I think unless there is any other point that we you want to discuss I think that we can we can adjourn I have no other points unless Stuart Jim does so or anybody else for that matter okay so thank you everyone thank you for listening thank you and this is going to bring the coffee or beer in San Francisco for people going there by coincidence yep have a good rest of the day guys still I don't know I'll call you okay I'll call you this as a recording see you in a bit whomever you are um we would be very happy to have your uh active participation um we don't have all the answers here and we certainly don't have all the bandwidth"
  }
]
