[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "okay we are going to start maybe okay this today\u0027s we have a tight schedule so that\u0027s not so everyone good morning hey this is this is PCP working with meeting please make sure you\u0027re in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:11",
    "text": "the right room my name is Yasiin Ishida and unfortunately Michael chef and the Mike toxin couldn\u0027t come to this meeting but I believe they will join the meeting from remote although Germany time is 3:00 a.m. right now okay and this is user note well this is just a reminder ytf policy with regard to your behavior your privacy your intellectual property your copyright and so on so if you have any concerns about this one please read this carefree and you can find some contents on the ITF web page and not logistics and I really appreciate mudding from peer note-taker and the Mahesh taking of whatever and just simple reminder when you speak about a Mike please say your name before you start making a comment so that note-taker can track your name okay so to present surprise know we have lots of agenda today and so first working with Jarrett\u0027s update the status of the working group and after that we have discussion about - working group items first one is RTO consider and career as a reviewer present some feedback of this RTO consider draft so that we can think about it\u0027s a draft it\u0027s ready for working the plastic or not and next one is accurate Asian press Asian prosperous discussion and in this one yeah we also chaired think you know this is close to the working group Roscoe but beforehand we would like to check you know there are no I need technical respect remaining issue or if there is any procedural issues so be because of that we have no several presentation first mal Sarah will talk about update for Asian prosperous and then after that Bob my I don\u0027t I didn\u0027t get realists ride yet but if you want to speak up you can skip speak up something about accurate is yen it\u0027s your choice you if you have any technical I don\u0027t want to talk about non technical stuff you can skip okay that\u0027s fine sorry I\u0027d have to quickly prepare a slide but I wouldn\u0027t be able to do it in time for that sort but right maybe I\u0027ll just come to the mic and try and explain it I might try I might try one slide okay and after that media will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:16",
    "text": "talk about registration policy for TCP header so this is related accurate easy and discussion and then after that\u0027s no we will discuss about procedure discussions for his activities and easy entrust us the meaning of procedure discussion is not focusing on technical style just focus on how to proceed this draft so that\u0027s not some meaning of this discussion and after that we have a for presentation for non working group items first one is high stud probably we will talk about it and after that my fish talk about young model for TCP configuration and after that caress talk about TCP octo and then after that a lot will talk about some congestion experience so that\u0027s the today\u0027s agenda any comment questions suggestion about this agenda okay maybe on so now let\u0027s talk about working group status so unfortunately we haven\u0027t have we published any RF she\u0027s since Montreal but we have lots of working group items and that\u0027s close to publication let\u0027s take a look TCP M combat a draft we have completed working group last ago and then we have submitted to our yesterday and 77 93 based draft this draft has been continuously updated and then current plan according to the authors no current plan to update these reflect some meds review and the micros review and then also we have two reviewers Korea and probing and after we got already is no we think and if it looks okay we are thinking about issuing initiating working group rustical so our current front its initiating working group rustical re 2020 if possible and that\u0027s a plan so we expect maybe was to submit their abuse aureus is possible so be great I appreciate your support and 21:40 based draft this draft recently updated three days ago and it\u0027s add new a pending appendix for automating the initial window increase then after this basically in this version they also think this draft is modern was ready for working replace to call and they don\u0027t have any specific front of lady anymore that\u0027s so if we were interested please lead disrupt and it please submit your comment to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "mailing list and next one\u0027s luck and we have been discussing this draft a long time and then that chaired think this draft is close to working group last call but we are right now checking the final thing and then one of the things we are checking is if the intended status of this stuff should be PS OS should be experimental and we are getting a data point on the mailing list but at the same time we would like to get data points in this room so I think people already familiar with Fatty\u0027s back so if we will think rock dust should be published as proposed standard please raise your hand okay thank you and if you think locked rocks should be published as experimental traffic please raise your head okay Sarah okay I wonder chairs no offense I just wonder if the chairs wants to say why it was PS rather than exp because we all seem to agree it is PS okay so I think there are a very solid definition of the PS and the experimenter amanda\u0027s Manny Parra so basically that hasn\u0027t many implementations and they\u0027d spider that might be enough and also I we don\u0027t know crea vision but to explain it to his back proving I had one brief comment on working group Lashkar I do think the draft is complete but I gave the feedback to the authors that it\u0027s currently not that readable it needs an editorial path to make it easy to consume right now it\u0027s too verbose and too complicated so that\u0027s the only thing that\u0027s remaining I think but we should go to dr. Blasco is just an editorial comment okay so this is Chris lemons on Jabar saying point of order is this sort of thing often best done as a hum instead of a direct quote and by the way this is Mahesh Shaitan and Anja and I would add +1 to that okay anyway I think this I just like to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "data point and the final decision made on czar mailing this we will make an announcement very soon on the mailing list ok next one is RT or consider okay and then I and then RKO functional I think we\u0027re as I say I think this draft is very close to backing refresco so we have our located some slot and then gory you know we\u0027ll provide a feedback as assigned reviewers and then next one is accurate Sen and in general generalized vcn and recently we have many discussion on these two draft and the chair think this drug these two draft is also close to the working group rustico but at the same time that she\u0027ll think we need to check several points before we move on to the backing replace the work that\u0027s why we allocate some time to discuss this one so basically it\u0027s the purpose of the discussion today it\u0027s if there is any remaining technical points issue before we going to go back in row Brasco and then next point is what\u0027s the best way to proceed this draft so we will have a discuss later okay that\u0027s about it\u0027s any comments about change just right over chair something okay so moving on to the presentation okay Corey hi Corey first I\u0027m gonna try and talk a little bit about the RT or considered draft this is just my own review the purpose of the sides isn\u0027t to make a pronouncement on this it\u0027s just to try and illustrate what we might want to comment on as we go to a wicking group last call and hopefully it helps other people think and conclude on this piece of work see if I can over what my slides say okay so yep that\u0027s just me so um I had a bit context on reading this which might be useful Marc\u0027s been doing doing this document for a long time he started off just doing it and then it got more and more concrete right at the time we did our RCA 2 8 5 which he\u0027s know a little while ago and Mark commented on 825 and we included some of the advice from this into RFC 808 5 just the UDP advice and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:24",
    "text": "I\u0027ve written a document as a individual and I read a whole lot of of documents and I came to my own conclusion then I went back to look at the RSC series to see what it said I\u0027ve now gone back and looked at this document to see whether it says the same thing and the final point is this is my context the other thing is this it represents BCP status it was originally a TCP oriented document now is a little bit wider in scope but it comes from TCP and so it gives the TCP background so good news I read it again it is readable yeah I mean my opinion is readable so anyone else can read it it seems correct to me maybe there\u0027s bits to wigglin maybe there\u0027s bits to discuss but the general thrust is definitely in the right direction in one or two places it says vague things I\u0027ll come to those in a second I don\u0027t know better ways to do these but it is BCP so we should see whether the BCP is actually some people can check when somebody compares with this and also comes to the same conclusion as NCC guidelines so independent we came to the same thing biggest question and I think I know the answer but it\u0027s not entirely clear but and was quite small sorry and and does he intend to update the existing RFC\u0027s have been published and the words kind of suggests it doesn\u0027t and then some of the details kinda suggest it might let you relax implementations that exist of protocols beyond what is specified in there RFC\u0027s i\u0027m this makes me a bit unsure about what what it\u0027s doing and if it will yeah it\u0027s a question so comment once a question that yeah we can create hope with some oh great yeah and it might have a big impact on how the working group sees that if we otherwise you have two updates against other RFC\u0027s so we should check that first and then get feedback so this is a general question on the whole thing it\u0027s the most difficult questions so it\u0027s comment one and here\u0027s once i don\u0027t think we can easily get out of but mark uses the word in steady state the RTR should be based on recent observations i don\u0027t give any idea about how to quantify recent so that\u0027s probably okay but we could say it was we could explain what recent was if we knew if you have opinions on this we can make the text better otherwise it\u0027s kind of not that useful as should to evaluate and similarly in the same thing time stop measurement should be taken regularly and then it says the notion of regularly should be defined as at least once per RTT i think in this case marks done exactly what I hope to do in comment too "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:25",
    "text": "but the text is mine good and it should be more like the blue text below in other words combine the two together and just say it should be taken at least once per RTT and you\u0027re done so do you have thoughts Michael on that one a little bit too I think or number three either way good if you can read it okay Michael Mike Ovitz I don\u0027t have a comment on number two you brought up the definition of recent I think given that the point of this document is to try and be a bit more vague in how we wanted to create a bit more very room yes I think we should make an effort to not try and define reasons and leave it up to implementers and and see if that passes okay so I recommend we get rid of this shirt because what\u0027s the point in relaxing it and then having your should so but isn\u0027t that a way of updating this back I mean if you have a spec that says I mean if a previous back has an as a capital shot in it and then this one is trying to relax the other one with them but not but not with the capital shot then what and then this has no meaning right I think we want to probably overrule the previous one with a more relaxed definition so that in that way I think I should be a capital shot but still it should be left Vegas if that\u0027s possible as a question I not a good idea okay you just say may do whatever it likes and can take or whatever I mean should without a boundary is not really something that\u0027s measurable should without a boundary should should being recent is not really about because you there\u0027s no way I can look at that and compare it with anything else okay so okay this is this is me kind of doing a review to try and create some discussion here so we can go to working group last call not me pronouncing Jemaine younger yeah I agree that it would be nice to have a little more crisper definition of reasoned in general I don\u0027t see a reason why a BCP can\u0027t say should I think I\u0027m hoping you\u0027re not saying no that is okay I like I like I like my own rewritten blue text here which says shouldn\u0027t sex it\u0027s kind of some sculpture or some example of what this should means okay that\u0027s what Janice said okay that\u0027s fine I think probably these two can be read a bit more and we can probably get consensus I would imagine there\u0027s some knit some choice of words which really are nits and what about CC guidelines you asked me about this this is current an individual it may go forward it wasn\u0027t adopted this IETF and it tries "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "to set a much bigger box on another group of stuff I would like to suggest this is an unrelated document and it does not have any impact on publishing this here it will inevitably refer back to this if that goes ahead Nia : I think you did a very great and working group last call with you here let\u0027s just do the working group has corn game like one or more than one or two more of these reviews and get that given out the door I don\u0027t think we need those we I mean like great that you did it right but I don\u0027t think we need those reviews before working class called order to get ready to work in class cause this is like something you do in work oh I I was asked to do a review and I pulled up this stuff and these slides are now available go read it yourself and review shows we should really go for working of last call yeah the reason why we asked to review rights in the be hoe hand we didn\u0027t get much feedback on this rap that\u0027s why we assign the reviewers here right now it\u0027s done corey one question so these are determine our comments from my point if it\u0027s not major issues so let\u0027s know after so you basically okay with yeah so you basically okay with proceeding you working in brush to go as long as you know we can sort it out - yeah my comments for working great last call will be these comments if the text remains like this and these apart from the first one there are none of these comments which are which will block a working group must call the first one should be clarified I think by the chairs so the intent of the document is clear does it update other RFC\u0027s or does it not because that is an important thing to get right yeah you asked me it\u0027s readable I have comments there\u0027s one big question and it would be ready for working great last call does not conflict with anything else I know of okay yeah another reviewer what do you think I\u0027ll first apologize for not having done the review sooner and I am writing up some things right now but it\u0027s I read through the draft carefully and I think it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s well-written except there is one major question that\u0027s a clarification point or question of scope really of the document so the document isn\u0027t eCPM it says that the let me pull the text search is horrible the text the draft says in section 3 the principles we are try on this document or protocol agnostic and widely applicable so that\u0027s point one however the draft continues to say that the requirements of this document only apply to cases where loss detected by a timer is repaired by a retransmission of the original data and there are other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:26",
    "text": "ways of doing recovery but this document doesn\u0027t consider those transports effectively the document precludes quick because quick does not actually require you to retransmit it will requires you to detect loss now I think there\u0027s a very simple way to fix this which is to remove the requirement for retransmission protocols that only do retransmissions from the draft I don\u0027t think it changes the the thrust of the draft I think it\u0027s perfectly fine without that I\u0027ll apologize to mark for bringing this up this late I\u0027m great I\u0027m grateful that he\u0027s not on the call because when he when he else at his computer later on I won\u0027t be there to hear it but I\u0027m happy to write this up now and and send it but this is this is a question I suppose do we want to say this is for TCP or do we want to say this is broader or for other protocols and include quick in it explicitly or it\u0027s somewhere in the middle right now which is maybe alright I don\u0027t want to have to go to change the whole thing it\u0027s still useful as it is I don\u0027t wanna make this go through a whole of the process again that\u0027s okay pretend that you and Ray be on that meaning does about me that\u0027s Hugh Acheson mailing list Praveen I had a clarification question actually for Jonah so when I say quick doesn\u0027t do retransmission we\u0027re done we\u0027re still with reliable delivery you will end up retransmitting the payload at some point if it\u0027s not the packet right so I mean any reliable transport in this probably applies to maybe maybe in certain ways but not others I think that\u0027s true but really what I care about is loss detection ultimately the RTO is about detection not about actually the retransmission of the data after that so I think I\u0027m trying to say that if the scope of the document is limited to detection it applies much more broadly than it does right now curry fellows at the beginning I said IRC i-285 applies to udp-based transports that applies to quick this aligns I think with that because Marc provided input to that so I think this is probably just a circular dependency as far as I can see as in you asked does it apply to quick because this says no only retransmission protocols RFC 808 5 does apply to quick and has the same guidance in so we just know yeah I mean this specific text that\u0027s in the document that explicitly goes ahead and precludes which is why I think it\u0027s it\u0027s strong about it doesn\u0027t need to be and it\u0027s an easy fix I think it can be fixed easily so if it actually was not intended to say that like if they actually wanted to talk about loss detection you\u0027re not about because mission is unnecessary right but like I also don\u0027t have any problem with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:27",
    "text": "it because we have the experience with TCP it\u0027s a PCP for TCP which is very applicable to TCP and you can of course use it for other protocols it would make sense to you but it\u0027s like not binding in that sense for other protocols which is also fine so it\u0027s so Gaiden 3 yeah if it\u0027s really just like if they didn\u0027t intend or like we didn\u0027t intend to say it we should remove Morocco yaah grunting grunting that is very important is that always even though its loss deduction was detection means that we quite likely retransmitted and retransmissions are always they have to do with the congestion control so whenever you play with the timer\u0027s that\u0027s related to consistent Rockets also very clearly said also India conscious the motor principles please read that and to add to that is an area especially when we only have a few packets to send and we are then everything is related to retransmission timers then it\u0027s a very delicate area because then when you have a lot of load that is the area where the consistent collapse also happens if you are transmitting two months also we respond to you okay so any more comments then we we will move on to the next month zero good morning everyone I\u0027m Marcelo Angela and I\u0027m here to give a brief update on the EC n plus plus general ICC and draft so this is a short recap so the ec n plus plus draft the purpose is to enable ec n marking in tcp control packets that was precluded in the original specification this table will show the difference between the original 3168 ec n specification and our proposed draft basically the original specification didn\u0027t enable the marking of any control "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "packet in the draft we allow this in two different scenarios in case where a key CN has been negotiated or is being negotiated in the case that occasion is not being negotiated so for most of packet is the same thing you can mark them except for a couple of cases where you can only mark them as long as I mean you have are trying to negotiate occasion we have so we have had a very thorough review from Michael in the last money over the last couple of months we changed quite a few things I would say that most of them were like clarifications rewarding justifications rearrangements Neen but essentially we were like most editorial and and not only editorial but clarifications in this type of things right to improve readability and this type of things and there is one main change that we have done based on Michaels comment that is the following right in the previous version of the draft the only the only situation that you can actually mark the seen packet as ICT was if we were also trying to negotiate occasion right the reason for that is because a key CN allows enables you enables the server the one receiving the seen mark with AK CCM to feedback the congestion signal in case the scene was C marked right standard I mean the current 3168 EC ends I mean server supporting this spec does have the means to provide that\u0027s it right so we have the long discussions before about this and the decision was that unless you\u0027re able to feedback the congestion signal back to the client you should not be able to mark the scene right that\u0027s why we only enabled the marking of the scene if you were negotiating a kiss en Michel suggestion was he still wanted to allow the marking of the scene in cases where you were not negotiating occasion and he proposed that you do that as long as you keep the initial window to one right you react as if you have receive a mark a congestion signal even though you will not receive anything because there is no way for you to get the signal back right so we we thought that this was okay I mean it doesn\u0027t break anything I mean it\u0027s I mean you\u0027re putting yourself in the worst case however the performance of this will probably be worse than then I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "mean you have a preferred front panel T because of doing this yes mark okay clarifying question so you assuming that the accuracy and is the only way to provide feedback right good question a good good question so as current what we are stating in the draft is you can mark this if you have some way to get the feedback back either a Kishin or any other mechanism that will be refined in the future because as far as I know currently there is no other standard that actually allows them yeah that\u0027s my point in borracho not to tie it on with any other metric that words are in there yes and you can also mark it as long as you if you don\u0027t have a way to get the the the feedback Mack you use initial window of one right basically react as if you had fun - yes media me it could even I just realized it could can even generalize this a little bit more because what we usually the advice we give to UDP traffic that is not congestion control is you kind of sent more than one packet per under time so if you keep your window forever at one I don\u0027t know why you would do that with TCP but maybe there\u0027s a case you can actually mark all your packets also your X with it is he capable ECT cable I mean that good make sense but if you don\u0027t respond to congestion isn\u0027t it one every three seconds or something because you\u0027re not congestion responsive it\u0027s one per RTT of your with that feedback yeah except for safety level which is one Sprott ET and the second one of something that doesn\u0027t actually respond which is once every three seconds but this is this is probably the first case if you know the RTT it\u0027s one priority if you don\u0027t know the RTT it\u0027s once every second thank you for reading it more I have a suggestion given that ECE is meant to be a sticky bit could it be possible to keep the initial window to one MSS until the first act indicating that which can indicates that no see e mark was received and then the image initial window can Lupul initiation window can be applied that sounds basically the the ECE base "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "is supposed to be sticking yes so it could after the initial handshake the court also the see ecoute points that occurred during the handshake so also you would only need to temporarily limit the initial window to one I don\u0027t want to argue about this with you later so I was just thinking about taking advantage of the fact that ECE is sticky in standard IO 61 6 8 so the stick could record the the state of C II in during the handshake even though it won\u0027t be visible until after the handshake so for the first RTT it might be necessary to limit the initial window to 1 but subsequently it could be increased once the it is confirmed that no c e mark occurred during the handshake know that the point is ECE comes back valid after the handshake and at that point you get the information what do you mean AC comes back valid after the handshake that the the 3 bits are used in the handshake to say what the bits mean and so there is no point where ECE means ECE if a ket n is being negotiated for the case here this is for the three one six eight case the classical TN case okay so all again men because I was in completely the other case yeah right so in Theon six eight ECE bit is sticky yep so we can have it be sticky also during the handshake phase although it is set during the handshake anyway so you can only tell whether it was set by a seee mark during the handshake after the handshake has completed yep so at that point you can find out whether a CE mark occurred during the handshake and restore the initial window to the normal value but how can you tell that it occurred during the handshake because you\u0027ve had it because it was sticky it will it will won\u0027t what\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "difference between the two cases that tells you whether it is because it\u0027s clear assuming you\u0027ve got some other packets in the round-trip time okay but unfortunately that\u0027s not exactly how it\u0027s usually implemented because in a lot of cases it will just disable easy and if you see you see in the indus in\u0027 and not give you any feedback anymore yeah that\u0027s what neurosis just we\u0027ve already told them that it shouldn\u0027t and they\u0027re accessible RC 3168 says it should and it\u0027s not a bug and he won\u0027t move Brad Grimes I think that that even though there\u0027s an implementation that is potentially wrong right if we can clarify here I think we should try and clarify to clear up that situation that not doing so is on us and not on the Linux people that it\u0027s that would be very very useful because on measurements 84% of servers in the world do this this behavior where they turn off ACN if they see only sin okay so just just do to understand this so they situate so if I understand this I don\u0027t know what your name is sorry sorry Jonathan so I am as far as I understand Jonathan suggestion seems seems acceptable seems reasonable right the problem is that there are implementations that will behave in a on on desire way if that action did if we take if you took that approach so the question is whether we should want to acknowledge the existence implementations and try to avoid having a problem with them or do this that seems to work unless I\u0027m except for the fact that 80% of the server seems to take it in the wrong way so don\u0027t say bad behavior only occur on ze mark or also for ECT media do the measurement so let me wake up first so actually it\u0027s not a problem because like if that occurs you won\u0027t negotiate easy and with the server right and then you\u0027re in the state where just not like you should easy and capable and you shouldn\u0027t set any easy nfx so if you negotiate easy and with the server then you\u0027re right if you don\u0027t get feedback right then you should be able to be then you should know that there was no marking and you can probably increase your window again but I think we should double-check how this is implemented if it\u0027s actually implemented as sticky or not I mean it should be but I\u0027m not sure how it\u0027s implemented that\u0027s the one part so like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "if it\u0027s actually implemented a sticky we can do that the other part is that if you said to Seema if you said easy and capable and DCE Mac Mac said it\u0027s usually just to see Mac where they fall back there a few implementations will also fall back on the etc\u0027 and I think that isn\u0027t that even mentioned in the draft that this behavior exists yes so like maybe we should also put a warning here in addition on where we say where we talk about like these case okay so essentially looks like we need to verify a few things but we\u0027re going forward with Jonathan\u0027s suggestion correct okay excellent okay any I don\u0027t know if I don\u0027t think I have anything else yeah so next steps what do we will discuss later okay good yeah thank you next Bob you want to say something about accurate Eason while you are fine okay you need five minutes or something then okay oh you can directly connect HDMI cable to your laptop but you can you can connect see you yeah I can sup agenda with media okay what will you can send side to me okay it\u0027s the traffic only saying even if you don\u0027t negotiate classic you see and you can set ect in the Sun if you have a congestion window phone or you have to at least negotiate classic ecn I don\u0027t know what it says but it should be saying that you can only set it up if you\u0027re negotiating classic you see and that\u0027s what that\u0027s what I thought it should say I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s what I wrote but okay oh yeah while Bobo is preparing tonight video we\u0027ll talk about legislation policy for TCP header flags good morning okay so I just submitted on Monday a very short draft to make a proposal and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "it\u0027s like it\u0027s one of these very exciting topics where you talk about registration policies so what we have right now is that we have our C 27:18 2780 that specifies the registration policy for the TCP header flex standard section and we have 31 80 68 which actually forms a registry for these slicks so firstly there was there was a registration action but no registry then we had a registry and then after that we had an experimental RFC that assigned bit number seven which is not really what the registration policy said I don\u0027t know how that happened was before my time and then recently we decided that we move 35 40 to historic and also change the entry in the registry and put it to reserve so that was our see 83 11 you can still follow me with all the RFC numbers Friday morning and I\u0027m using trick here 83 11 doesn\u0027t make any recommendations what to do about like you know how we can use seven bit number seven again it says like it\u0027s open for experimentation but like what do we do about the registration in the regice regice tree and so we now want to use it again for equity CN and we are not sure what to do here so what I\u0027m proposing here is actually to change the registration policy to experimental because like what what it depends on like how we apply use of experimental and proposed standard in this working group but to my feeling whatever we want to do with those bits we will publish an expert experimental RFC first and similar as we are in this situation was accurate ACN right now we really want to make using the bit part of the experiment usually so how can we ever use a bit if we want an experiment but then we have send as action registry so the the the end of this thought process would be that we use a bit for an experiment we don\u0027t put it in the registry which also doesn\u0027t make sense because we have a registry so actually announce that it\u0027s used so that\u0027s why I would like to change the registration policy here of course we have to be very careful of course we need like strong agreement that we really want to do that but like s proposed standards all experimental RFC skills basically through my like same process usually they also have IETF consensus but I think it\u0027s actually more important that this group in this room has consensus about it and we should really make sure that also the experiments talk about what happens if the experiment fails how or how you can like change anything that is under experimentation these kind of things so it has to be carefully discussed in every experimental RFC but I think we and this group can make sure that this happens do you want me to show the next slide okay so this is like one proposal there other proposals we could only apply this to the equity CN bit because it was already messed up or like the the nonce bit actually the reserve bit because that was already messed up and there\u0027s also chance for temporary "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:36",
    "text": "assignment but it doesn\u0027t really say exactly what a temporary assignment isn\u0027t what it means or we can just like not assign it and and go on with the experiment or whatever or like we could change equities en to propose to end it and not change the registry and I care about this later when we try to use an expert right oh just one thing before this presentation tell we\u0027re organized discuss about how to proceed accurate easy and and then press the stuff so that\u0027s not your if your comment is directed to this proposal please make a comment all right if you right now I don\u0027t want to talk about weekly yeah yeah good I actually do have a comment about this proposal actually can go to the next slide no no I don\u0027t know but no because it\u0027s not defined and he\u0027ll know so I would submit that basically any use of these flags is going to be in its initial deployment phase which is from twenty twenty to twenty twenty-nine experimental de facto so I think that the document or the you know the documentation about this registry should actually reflect the reality and that\u0027s what this does so do it I\u0027ll notice that we did a we you know so you and I actually did a very small experiment last year that that compared in a small slice of the network the deployability of these actual flags without a registration to experimental TCP options and this came up favorably like it was there was no like the difficulty of deployment was the same so given that I think we even have data that says that yes this is experimental and you know make their make the document reflect reality so adopt publish last call home we\u0027re done repeat the good news like what we actually found is that using the bits is easier than using new TCP hops right so gory first I think you\u0027ve applied the slow start method to writing Internet drafts yes I like the idea of doing this no I don\u0027t like your draft and no I don\u0027t like the choice of keywords in your draft and no I don\u0027t like the spelling mistakes and other stuff so thank you for making a draft quickly I think we need to kind of get the the detail right because there\u0027s a couple of things that kind of really go oddly one is the fish this should at the one up here like should discuss the scope the experimental potential failure causes of something that kind of might last for a long time why don\u0027t we say must discuss I mean let\u0027s let\u0027s describe or must must have this bit in the document that goes ahead because then then we say it\u0027s going to be there and we can look at it and then we can make the decision and then move on rather than should because why wouldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:37",
    "text": "you you should write something in your we do the experimental thing then and I think we really should put it in the registry because this this could last for a long time and we should just be in there documenting the way you say I like that part and I even get the details right here oh you want you to write your own draft and I just like I don\u0027t want to write my own draft no your idea of just throwing something out there and going I\u0027ll happily help David black author of 83 11 yes do this at the time the HP eleven was done I already had more than enough stuff I was cooked with net draft and did not I don\u0027t think the tray sponsor was ever mentioned had it mentioned at the time I would have gently declined to have taken on consumer had already had more than enough scope creep adventures on 83 eleven rod Grimes I\u0027ve read the draft I\u0027m in agreement with them with Corey on what I see here I like much more than what I read in the draft yeah I mean the only there was only one real negative in the draft and that was the word that was recent used and I don\u0027t I don\u0027t like time-variant sayings in drafts so that that we shouldn\u0027t talk because recent only applies for a short period of time so that but the the other one is how do we handle the the must situation that\u0027s in the draft of we must negotiate before use of the bits which effectively means the bits or permanently have a default state where they\u0027re unused so if you if you don\u0027t negotiate there\u0027s no way to ever use the bit so I think I would like to see language added that would allow the bit somehow to be used it\u0027s it\u0027s a it\u0027s a little teeny last code point that is available even with even after all the negotiations fail there\u0027s a possibility to use it so when I was what I was trying to say in the draft if you use a bit you need to add some kind of negotiation mechanism to make sure that like whatever you define in your experiment can be changed but like there\u0027s no negotiation to use a bit like because like I don\u0027t know how that would work okay yeah sounds like there\u0027s a little bit of words nothing to do here because one of the one of the things you might want to do is use these bits to negotiate the use of the bits all right like cuz I mean like so any any encoding is is probably gonna have a trick like that like you know so we did with our you know we we actually did a little bit of an experiment where we just used all three of them because they\u0027re just sitting there are no one\u0027s ever gonna use them and we stuck the back and the spin bet on them because it was easier to get the spin bit to be implemented on TCP than it was on quick which is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:38",
    "text": "different comment for a different room but yeah so tightening up the stuff about negotiation and making sure that it\u0027s clear that these are usable and you know it is not restricting how you can get them to the state where you can use them as good so I mean I think this is a really important point because the point is if you have proposed on it you don\u0027t have to think about like negotiation anymore because you\u0027re sure this mechanism is like what we want and we never want to change it ever again right for an experiment it\u0027s really important to be able to like change some things so so is negotiation presume to work with options and if so aren\u0027t we just then joking ourselves to the problems with options I\u0027m not saying anything about this is there some other mechanism that I\u0027m not in I mean an accurate easy and we actually use bits for negotiation and then we use the field with the three easy end it\u0027s in a different way and that gives you an additional level of negotiation so there are other options yes mm-hmm I\u0027m just particularly thinking about how non some did things historically which is they there was no explicit negotiation for use of that bit at the time it was presumed to be available if ecn was negotiated and then post handshake if the the end points was verify between themselves whether the functionality was actually there can i clarify the nonce some was on the set on the sin and but it was a declaration and the receiver didn\u0027t have to do anything about it I\u0027m nearly absolutely sure about that because I looked into it but there no I\u0027m actually quite sure that\u0027s not the case but because we use exactly the same bin to make it to negotiate a courtesy and we you said bid to negotiate a courtesy and if that was used with nuns it wouldn\u0027t work you\u0027re right yes so I think I think Jonathan is right but I\u0027m not sure what the implications for these draft for this draft is what should a what is like what is enduring I\u0027m basically saying that requiring an explicit negotiation during the handshake might be inconsistent with previous usage to say is that if you want to use this bit you need some way of negotiation it in order to change the mechanism that is using the bit somehow it doesn\u0027t say you have to use a bit for negotiation it doesn\u0027t say like you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:39",
    "text": "to use an option or whatever it doesn\u0027t say how you do you negotiate and win but you have you have to have a way because it\u0027s experimental to change your experiment okay I think we can discuss the semantics offline and and and I think actually Nantes did not a good job about defining the experiment and trying to figure out you know what could fail and how to change it but I also don\u0027t know how non that assigned to this bit because that doesn\u0027t seem to be what the procedures are saying and I\u0027m not old enough for that I\u0027m sorry like somebody maybe somebody remembers I would really like to know some broad crimes I\u0027m in agreement with Johnathan here that I think we\u0027ve discussed this enough I think we\u0027re in and we\u0027ve got some paths forward we need to do a little bit of research and figure out maybe what some of these other things that might be possibilities are but this is a really good start to move things forward thank you I I\u0027m I\u0027m stood up so far and I\u0027m surprised Michael hasn\u0027t either but I just want to make sure that we\u0027re not thinking that because you put X P of the top four draft it means it\u0027s more reversible yeah you know it\u0027s the the question of whether something is an experiment doesn\u0027t depend on what you put at the top of the draft it depends on whether it\u0027s reversible and so I I think maybe the least we should do is write into this thing some some statement like that say it must they\u0027re working it must be clear that the the experimental status is not used just to get a code point in India in the TCP header you have it prove that it\u0027s reversible it actually the draft says it\u0027s not result reversible if you use these bits then you use them if you deploy it then they are in use then it\u0027s not reversible anymore that\u0027s the problem about that\u0027s why we had the Senate\u0027s action before but what the draft does say is that because it\u0027s not reversible you have to make sure you can still change your mechanisms you propose so you need some negotiation for that I\u0027m broad crimes again I I think to address what Bob just said would would be to add the language that there must be a deployment plan before the bits can be even negotiated there has to be a deployment plan which would include a DP deployment plan by adding that as a requirement so I think the Oni I think it\u0027s what you\u0027re actually saying there and the care must be taking an experiment since you should discuss the scope of the experiment in the potential failure cases of what you\u0027re talking about is the deployment plan so good like my point actually is I don\u0027t think that it\u0027s a way to deploy if you studied deployment and you\u0027ve been successful even so like the mechanism you\u0027re proposing doesn\u0027t work in the way you want it to be right if you did deploy it there\u0027s no way to under ploy it anymore but you can still use the bit because you have a negotiation no because you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:39",
    "text": "negotiate what you do with a bit not the use of the bit there\u0027s no way to negotiate the use of the bit so that\u0027s the whole point here why why it was an experimental before it gen-i anger I don\u0027t know why there\u0027s so much confusion around this I think this is very straightforward I think we should adopt this it seems sensible yeah there\u0027s there\u0027s review later on to figure out if bid that was previously assigned can be reversed or not Simon can be reversed if you have no deployment yeah respond to the previous speakers point you can have a plan for deployment a plan for deployment doesn\u0027t mean deployment I have plan for deploying many things it doesn\u0027t mean that they are deployed and so really the question at the point when you want to reverse something is to look and see as we always do if it\u0027s already been deployed if it\u0027s not deployed go ahead and reverse it if it\u0027s reasonable pain go ahead and reverse it if it\u0027s not reasonable pain you can\u0027t reverse it this is Trey Polster draft was intended to say and it should say it just just to point out the Nam\u0027s experience we believe it was only ever deployed by on one testbed but it took us 19 years to establish that it wasn\u0027t deployed I didn\u0027t say that any of these experiments will be quick Jahangir I think I think that number differs depending on who you ask the same swing true of pretty much any technology but that\u0027s that\u0027s not the point that\u0027s why I think we we sort of hand this off to the iesg to figure out what to do with that decision I think it took us 19 years because 15 years nobody was interested in the bed David white plus plus plus one on what merely just said okay thank you it\u0027s cut so Danny okay Bob you want to say say something to try and stand there and I\u0027m gonna be talking about a cure ACN which is a proposed update to the TTP wire protocol you can think of it a bit like when sach updated TTP to get more accurate feedback about drop and this is updating that is to be water particle to get more accurate information about ACN feedback right so a couple of recap "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:46",
    "text": "slides the idea is - well there\u0027s the ACN field in the IP header and then three three bits use three flags in the TCP header in order both to negotiate and then use over load and use those so much like we\u0027ve just been talking about to really solve a problem with the 3168 feedback that I was Jonathan calls it was sticky you could only you could only feedback 1 congestion experienced mark / round-trip time and the structure accurate ACN was that you have these these three bits in the header but once you once you\u0027re established once your connections established you use those a three bit counter which is continually repeated to count in the number of C marks which means that if you have a thinning or loss or whatever that you\u0027ll still see when you get do get a back through you\u0027ll see where the counters got to but obviously being only three bits it can only last up to eight increments of the C II can\u0027t er and then you use that with the other fields at number and signals number to work out how many bytes if you want to and there was a supplementary accuracy an option with variable length for a number of fields and that\u0027s what I\u0027m going to talk about today and that and that was it was added in so that you can have information about more fields such as the EC T 1 and e ste 0 if you want to get feedback on them and so we\u0027ve had one suggestion that to cut the current sorry these slides were drawn very quickly so I may have to explain them or I\u0027m done a good job of explaining them visually properly the current design is the top one and the proposed design is to have both of them and for the initial value in the first field to determine which order the fields are in for the rest of the connection alright and the initial values are chosen so the first one is one in the least me for a bit and the alternative has a one in the most end at least significant bit if you can\u0027t work your hex out just so you have to check one bit yeah okay and that\u0027s also been pointed out that if someone\u0027s monitoring the path that means that you\u0027re affected your counters are fixed we\u0027ve got halfway through the path when used to halfway through the number space when you start and so even if you miss beginning of the connection you can tell for quite a long time which all of the fields are and things like that all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:47",
    "text": "right okay [Music] so that was one thing we did oh that\u0027s what we\u0027re proposing to do we haven\u0027t put that in the draft yet it\u0027s we\u0027ve written a text and my waiting to see what people say so Bob just took check the accuracy an option requires you to support the option which is kind of a question whether you want to do that if you support one option you could support two options and we could have an invariant format two different crimes two different yeah two two things that identified it very clearly from the beginning rather than kind of embedded in the data and they could have a fixed format is that any more difficult to deploy the to kind version I propose that and joko said no so I come up with this sure and that was a good thing to do to propose something else to see if it was better or more ugly I\u0027m just wondering whether the first one has as in using two kinds is actually a simpler format and easier to see what\u0027s going on right oh and I suppose this has the advantage that it is for the case where someone\u0027s measuring and this is the beginning of the connection this is clearer what\u0027s going on if you miss the beginning of the connection or you know packet gets lost and you don\u0027t see the first packet first or they get reordered you know this one still works but the kind one will work all the time yeah you know Ruud Grimes either solution would work I kind of like this and that it does give you that middle of the flow if you miss the negotiation at the beginning you do have a detection mechanism to know whether you\u0027re looking at a t0b or ECB while the flow is running you can tell that but if you don\u0027t capture that when you\u0027re trying to do monitoring data you don\u0027t know what was negotiated in the beginning of during the setup so you don\u0027t know what the to value fields are you agree with that but without they will have the coin will be different anyway if you use the kind two kinds but this does mean that you say one kind out of the numbers basis okay yes yeah right so shall we go ahead with this one yeah I mean there I know there endless ways to design but and so what we do is we use the initial value to that identify the field right basically so we could actually do this for all the fields and then we could just like order them in any order we want always explain what you want to do that because at some point you might figure out you like want to have the CE Marking first are you implying that we you can do this more than once in a connection or only at the beginning no you could you can pick an initial value for each of the fields that identifies the fields the field and I mean I have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:49",
    "text": "to think you need to look at one field that has like a code point that tells you the order of all the fields you don\u0027t need each field to tell you where it is because they could conflict then one could say I want to be at the front the other one says no I want to be at the front no one will be identify which one it is and what I\u0027m saying is you can use the initial value to identify which field you\u0027re looking at yeah just just in the first field maybe you don\u0027t have to look at any other fields otherwise you have to look at all the fields and you know and just in the first field you can have more start starting values in future in the first field to say what the order of the other fields are yeah yes okay yes I think Jonathan here the I think the point here servers six permutations of these three fields possible and so we can have six different init values no to identify each one there\u0027s more because that the idea of this sorry I didn\u0027t give the introductory idea which is that even already you don\u0027t have to have all the fields you can have two of them if this one\u0027s never changed or you can have one of them with both of the last two have never changed and so and and what I\u0027m wanting to be able to do is with the initial values of that first field you could say there are four fields you could have a you know or a fifth field or whatever you know you can you can it\u0027s a pretty big number space I\u0027m sure you can handle that case in the future yeah Jahangir this is a salt problem how big I\u0027m sorry I haven\u0027t read the draft and so I\u0027m gonna ask how big are each of these count of 24 bits okay so if you\u0027re willing to put aside a bit even from me what media was saying I\u0027m just gonna be a little bit more specific and we shouldn\u0027t design this here at the mic that\u0027s a bad idea but if you\u0027re gonna it\u0027s it\u0027s a lot easier if you if you identify each field on its own you don\u0027t have to care about the the ordering of the fields in here at all it\u0027s very easy to do the difference was this design is actually said you don\u0027t set the bit aside right he\u0027d like you just wrap around at some point so it\u0027s a bit connect should be 0 even so you use this ordering that\u0027s right so I\u0027m I think I think what I\u0027m suggesting is having a little bit more structure in the in the in the field itself where you have three bits a to determine what in field it is and after that you have a counter we the field we we thought about doing but it\u0027s if it\u0027s unnecessary in other words if you can do all the negotiation by just the initial value then these can just be counters because discussion Jana you have any proposal in the send it to the mailing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:50",
    "text": "list yeah actually we used to have a different design at the very beginning then we make more simple we changed now we\u0027re changing it back and we ruble but like I think the important question here for the group is do people want to support only one kind of option for like this version or two people want to support also the different ordering for yeah for this draft right now because you can always add this later actually okay Sonia brought this up about it like if you want to use something like FRS or whatever that actually uses the etc1 field then this the second ordering would be much more beneficial for you eat ect ect yeah and as I see no elf rest but yeah so the question I see is do we want to allow reporting different combinations in other words is the so can you make a simple pricey of the question we just ask the group whether this is a use of place to dig without without how we encode it but just is it useful to actually look at that yes Camille I don\u0027t mind whether they a teachers do this or whether the church do it but I\u0027m asking the working if we can ask the working group whether this is a useful place to dig okay consider yourselves asked okay right so what do we think okay question needs um so do we want to think about in this kind of you know define two formats basically do so so that the point of this is to have a smaller option but is it likely in the life of a connection that you will always have truncated options or in in the only two schemes that exist you would right but you\u0027d only either use H t0 always or or use s t1 always and at the moment no one\u0027s proposing to use both or what no that\u0027s not sure se e se e wants to use both so in some cases you\u0027d have to changing and and the way the draft works is that it says you can truncate it if the counter hasn\u0027t changed that you must beacon think three times of per round-trip time all of them just so it\u0027s clear that someone has missed an AK okay thanks um I think it\u0027s you know the the the option space is for some abuse cases pretty well constrained so I think that would be well valuable and there\u0027s probably an encoding I mean again we won\u0027t do it at the mic but I\u0027ll probably do something to list on how maybe we could generalize this in an efficient way but yeah I think this is I think if we can get away "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:50",
    "text": "with this usually being a eight byte option instead of a eleven byte option that would be good salary thanks rod drums I\u0027m just in support let\u0027s have some discussion about yeah doing this or not right now we are running out of time and then this will be interesting so I don\u0027t want that so please you know you can summarize this discussion didn\u0027t send it to the mailing list and then we can discuss content you can continuously discuss yeah okay so I just wanted to heads up on go and have a look at the draft because there\u0027s some reasonably extensive changes because due to comment from Michael which actually made us realize there was a lot bigger problem when when we made the option we\u0027ve just been talking about optional in other words so that you you could just work with the three bit counter without the option we\u0027ve got all this stuff about if a counter has changed you must send the option but of course if you weren\u0027t sending the option you couldn\u0027t must send it and so we we had to put in some additional stuff there but then we realized we hadn\u0027t actually got that any text for when you must send an ACK at all even if you weren\u0027t sending the option so we had to it was there\u0027s quite a bit of text in there now about when you send an ACK depending on what\u0027s changed even if you\u0027re not sending options as well as when you are alright so please go and read that because that\u0027s all new stuff yeah thank you okay okay now I would like to talk about the procedural discussion for partition and Asian prosperous and then what I would like to discuss its how to proceed these drafts so it\u0027s not a technical discussion how it\u0027s like to focus on how to proceed these two draft and then basically you know this why I don\u0027t want to need any detailed discussion to think about how to proceed is rough so please not avoid any technical discussion in this discussion and then first checkpoint we have a several technical discussion beforehand and so my initial check is do this rough time remaining the technical discussion point before working with Roscoe once he\u0027ll talk about some in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:51",
    "text": "negotiation of feedback things and then also both talks about some TCP option format things but my I would like to check if this is very big shows top of these this draft or to have any opinion on that actually would like to deep bundle the discussion of occurred easy on and easy on plus plus here because we cannot publish you see n plus pass without equity CN but we can publish or can move on equity C and before we have for agreement on e CN plus plus so I believe echo DC n is mostly ready I mean this this negotiation is not like an issue in the sense that it\u0027s like something was wrong it\u0027s something we actually had discussed before and now we changed our mind so we should like address it yes we still can but other than that it\u0027s ready and you want to proceed both simultaneously okay okay okay probably I have actually a question for Bob so there was some discussion about DC DC style feedback for incremental deployment so what was the outcome of that and where are we yeah you\u0027re right I\u0027ve forgotten to put that in those slides there we we were considering writing a slight a slight addition in a separate draft but that gave another negotiation you could do without curry CN which it says you can do in the draft it says you know this is this is a way to extend it in future and both or a number of companies have said we\u0027re using DC TCP to style feedback internally if we move to using accurate ecn we\u0027re gonna have a transition problem and so can we use the accurate easy n negotiation at the start but still be using our old feedback scheme because we\u0027ve got hardware that depends on in all the rest of it but at least then we can start using something different and and move to it as we get in new hardware and things so that was the problem and we\u0027ve said yes we\u0027ve got the facility to do that you can you can use different initial values of the ACE counter in the three bit header to say to tell the other end and negotiate with the other end that I\u0027m declaring I\u0027m using a different sort of feedback on the on these bits and s you could do this instead of using the TCP option as well so it\u0027s got that benefit but you know that would require you the the one this benefit of this is it there\u0027s only eight numbers you know so so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a small number space already right and so what we were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:52",
    "text": "thinking is of setting up an eye on a registry on for those eight numbers the draft uses yeah it uses for on the syn ACK but but once once once you do the first data packet you\u0027ve got all eight and we\u0027re going to use one Bob I want to cut it yeah all right now you know I won\u0027t I don\u0027t know what the more focused technical discussion right okay so I was asked that question of answer that question I\u0027ve forgotten the original question to stop parking real practical no because that was that would have been a separate draft anyway oh yeah because you can add that sort of thing later okay so that answers my question but I do think that draft is important because it probably updates both DC TCP as well as accurate ezn so I do think that we should get it out there soon sure yeah you could live in again yes I really like to have this mechanism also in a separate graph because it shows how the negotiation scheme works and that\u0027s really what I want yeah Toby Pato procedural discussion okay so I think let\u0027s say you know we move forward to accurate easy and draft and then both you impress Prosser and then from Chad\u0027s point Oh bill we still have several remaining points and then first one is bit severe occasion and then second one is I would like to check in dependency of the other related proposal basically right now we have a see my future might be we might have another proposal so but I what I would like to avoid it if we proceed accurately see an ancient process we cannot do any other issue experiment that\u0027s I try to avoid such kind of things so before we proceed our creation among Asian prospers I would like to confirm there is no conflict or a dependency for other proposals so that we can safely proceed accretion and the Gaussian process that\u0027s what I directed the third point I would like to come from before we move up to the Viking Rusco coming right SCE proposes to reuse bit 7 as a way of reflecting the ECG one code point again non some did more or less the same things although the details are different the I think the crucial point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:52",
    "text": "here is that this use of bit 7 would be used when a key CN is not negotiated and the ECE and CW are bits remain in the RFC through on 6/8 meaning yeah I think so that\u0027s to me or just obvious okay and then also um if you have any other thoughts no this is a to major point you know we need to think about if you have other point we need to think about please stick up if no we just focus on to these two point to think about procedure accurate easy and easy and prosperous okay so first I would like to discuss about PC bar location so now you know that we have a several choice um one choice is promote a creation to propose standard and allocate b7 for tradition this is one option and then second option is the media proposed abouts registry frog thing and then utilize this method and then apply B 7 fortunately CN but there are several you know possibility and so Michael Schaff mentioned that\u0027s no we only apply this policy on bp7 or the other way is now we can apply this policy all remaining reside bit and then the other way is you know I don\u0027t know this one exactly what does it means but in RFC 2070 80s you\u0027re a way to temporary assignment of the TCP header bit so we can we might be able to you check that one but I don\u0027t know if we have been seeing any precedence in my as far as I know I don\u0027t know how it works and so but this is documented so there could be a way for this and then also if there is other way to AutoCAD BC I would direct mode here so any comments I think I think the SCE position would be to use the registry mm-hmm subject to fine-tuning how the registry works so you mean you support medias proposal yeah I brought Grimes the the applying the policy to bit seven only in applying the policy to all subsequent bitches are super sets of each other so there\u0027s no reason that we cannot apply the at two bit seven at this time and then later escalate that to apply to all of them so that we could conduct a little experiment here to find out how well this works for one bit without changing the status of the other three bits and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:52",
    "text": "then later if the experiment went well we could we could expand the scope of it to say that it covers all reserved TCP header bits okay yeah I can I can really yes we can\u0027t you yeah I\u0027d like to add based on what I heard here in the room if there might be another option because we have repeated in the term negotiation and one thing you could think about is to move accurate easy end proposed standard for the negotiation part of because that seems to be useful even to other schemes and then discuss separately what happens after negotiation which could either be proposed send out or experimental and as I heard that other word guys are not thinking about using the negotiation for OPEC or compatibility and things like this I mean it seems to me that this negotiation is can be crucial and it\u0027s a relatively trivial thing to do it so I think the powerful proposed standard for the negotiation would be relatively low so that to me at least putting the negotiation to proposed standard would be an option that could possibly also be beautiful but it\u0027s just a thought I\u0027ve been thinking about this before so far I wasn\u0027t really convinced it\u0027s a good option but base but not but I get and now in the room is I think it\u0027s it\u0027s something to discuss at least as another venue and the good thing would be in that case if it would be assigned by the normal way it would be just propose tender to allocate the bitch replying to that one directly I\u0027m actually not sure how that would work because if you negotiate something you need the default behavior you need it do these define one behavior right otherwise you negotiate like wait basically I don\u0027t know I\u0027m not sure well yeah I mean the other registry that you mention is a couple of the other things so that is all part of the negotiation and then when you do afterwards is I mean there can be different specs for what happens after what SSU discussed I mean it\u0027s all deck mode for if you think you think could be another experimental whatever spec for just so I don\u0027t know how exactly the document would look like I just want to note its option and it would have to benefit that the bid is allocated by a proposed standard that\u0027s relatively simple because it focuses only on on the on the three-way handshake so the problem is you negotiate something and then you have an extension that negotiate something else so if the extension is not understood you have to fall back to the thing that you negotiate it first right and if the first thing unique a shade doesn\u0027t actually imply any mechanism then you have to have a default mechanism with the negotiation otherwise this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:54",
    "text": "supposed to work yeah but I think even even in the negotiation you can mandate other guidelines on what to do afterwards because it would be proposed to end up possibly so you can mandate what has to happen after that so you can act requirements when the schemes after I I mean I don\u0027t know how it exactly works and I don\u0027t want to engineer it right now I just mention that to me after there\u0027s another option and it means putting these parts of occurred is the proposed standard I would other finally other to conclude I would also think I mean if you get implementations I mean even putting accurate easy and as a whole to propose standard to me could be an option this is Bob Brisco they the idea of splitting the negotiation from the scheme it negotiates assume you use the word after a lot in that but you\u0027ve got the possibility of reordering you\u0027ve got TFO to deal with potentially which start sending data a bit well during the handshake so these things are intimately tied together you\u0027re you know and you\u0027ve got the possibility of losing the third ACK in the handshake and you\u0027ve got to deal with all those things and if you try and split that into two completely separate mechanisms it\u0027s nearly impossible you know you really need to do all that in one mechanism and have like me a set of default and then anyone who wants to start with something different can build on that rather than try and have a clean that in an ideal world yes you\u0027d have a clean separation but we\u0027re way beyond that because we got so few bits you know it\u0027s but if that\u0027s true what you said I mean you\u0027re just telling me right now that what has been discussed earlier is not possible that is to use the negotiation for something else and I don\u0027t understand that so you need negotiation to extend the scheme but you need always a base scheme because that\u0027s what you find then let\u0027s have a scheme is a Keynesian and do that as PS I mean that would be an easy solution point of individual continue to contributor to be here just because actually I think even if we do equities en it proposed on that we should change the registration registry but this is then independent from each other I mean to be clear I disagree that need to change the registration registry if you find another way for a Keynesian if you don\u0027t find a way per acre BC a not proposed standard then of course we have to do something but I would strongly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:55",
    "text": "suggest the working group to think about the the first way because this would actually not require any changes in the registry right now okay so I start thinking this is kind of you know preference no argument and then or you know if we discuss a little bit more can we convert some opinion or just this is no people saying this is basically the question which method people prefer and so what I heard from an earlier discussion was that I think people would like to change the restoration policy no matter what so I will work on the draft and propose it again okay but maybe we can independent of that we can maybe take a ham if people think they would like to go for proposed under or experimental for equities in like I personally I actually really don\u0027t care I just wanted to move it ahead okay okay I can get the data point so if people think accurate easy and should be published as you know proposed standard please raise your hand if you think a cure edition is published other experiment RFC please raise your hand with media why you something actually and then but you know if we accept we try to publish okay edition as proposed standard do you have to restructure the drug because right now the draft is very well written as a experimental draft in my understanding because it\u0027s discover how to do X remain what\u0027s the goal of the explain something like that right you need you have to modify that draft a drastic re I think I comment on Java from Chris lemons again a point of order is the sort of thing that the hum would work better for instead of a counted vote it\u0027s okay I would say we we don\u0027t really have ref condensates like a little bit half half with a slight tendency for experimental if the draft is written as experimental all the text is in for extra minutes let\u0027s just go for experimental okay but Cory and I think the decision on this is actually the chairs with their ad and so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:58",
    "text": "I don\u0027t mind how you get the consensus opinion but you could ask who raised the hand twice because they really just think we should publish something so you even discover the momentum if you wish to I\u0027ll leave it to you okay but I see still I think still we need to discover what in the media he had please update your draft and then submit some proposal a little bit more about your flag registration you need sorry judge me I mean just to just more to a point than to of what Cory just said I mean this this doesn\u0027t seem to be the case as clerk like - hard people thinking that should be one thing or should be the ER thing since that a lot of people think it should be published that it doesn\u0027t matter how okay right so I think that\u0027s the situation I mean that I think the decision is pretty much irrelevant here I mean you need to I mean the the feedback of the room for me is this should go ahead it doesn\u0027t matter experimental or PS just go ahead so maybe an hour way forward suggested way forward would be to ask the room if people care strongly if it\u0027s published one way or the other alternatively you can say can you live with either one of these so if we want to go for experimental we want to allocate the bit we have to publish the registration change at the same time so if people think we should um publish its experimental then like this is also an agreement of this group to move quickly ahead with the registration policy change which I think it\u0027s a good thing yeah right so at least I would like to see how many sub people suppose in the media registry draft and then so if you support medias flag registry draft please raise your hand okay okay and how many people with doesn\u0027t support me as Flag register graph please raise your hand okay seems to be strong I got it way of doing yeah we can do that okay so next things I would like to check independent of the other related "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:59",
    "text": "proposal you know we have some exchange email with media and then but I would like to confirm accretion and this year will not conflict each other because of negotiation scheme I\u0027m sorry okay I would like if I couldn\u0027t just go back to the previous discussion briefly so okay in terms of the shortest path the publishing accurate ecn I heard two different road blocks if we make it a proposed standard then we have to do some editorial rewrite of the draft if we choose to make it experimental we must get Mira\u0027s Draft all the way through to go to last call simultaneously that\u0027s and I heard a little bit of its quibbling about the details of Mirrors draft so I think we should probably I have no idea what how big the rewrite is and how big the Delta is on what people want to see out of Mira\u0027s draft but I think we should spend maybe a little time seeing what the shortest path is since nobody seems to care on the substance of whether which classification is but it seems nice additional sense preference from my point of view Jen I don\u0027t cambium the amount of effort is roughly equal and I suspect that it can go to PS if you simply delete those sections that talk about it being experimental and Maria\u0027s draft is basically a paragraph long and that can also get done quite rapidly and go there as well so that is assuming that everyone in this room and the only people that might object but of course there\u0027s a mailing list and so so you know people may not want to do Mia\u0027s draft and then we\u0027re in you know it\u0027s right crimes would there any reason that we couldn\u0027t proceed forward with both and then making this decision later gory first I still assert it\u0027s the chairs decision but what to do yeah but I\u0027d like to provide information point me this and the echo Sen Draft is only changing one thing people are trying to implement this is probably good for PS a if you feel it\u0027s mature enough is good for PS the registry thing yeah sure but if we do this this probably becomes sticky or immediately becomes equivalent to P us because we the sticky allocation happens so I think the registry thing is something we should definitely progress as quickly as we can but I wouldn\u0027t get the other one on that because it\u0027s a wider consensus car that\u0027s my input I am so I was saying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:00",
    "text": "that there could be a good argument the proposed standard because people are starting to implement against this therefore it will be seen in the Internet and therefore it will be effectively a sticky bit in the update draft the other draft and therefore it doesn\u0027t really matter what what path we take through this if if your your draft your draft matures quickly that can go quickly and if there is not consensus on that discussion then this shouldn\u0027t block it right so so let\u0027s place PS is what I\u0027m motivating yeah I get them like my anger I just like to note I mean the key advantage of going why RPS is that we have no dependency on IETF consensus and changed into registry so of course even if this working group decides to publish the registers change fast it\u0027s don\u0027t need to get IETF consensus and that\u0027s a question of its own the benefit of doing PSS you can trust you have used utilized IGF procedures and you\u0027re done at least in the working group so that to me it would be there could be a chance that the PS is actually faster outside the TCP I\u0027m working who but it\u0027s up to it the working group to decide what they want Jen Iyengar I actually was going to say exactly that I was going to say that that is actually what that is one part that is faster and that\u0027s PS so experimental because it brings in this dependency can be the same speed or can be slower it\u0027s not gonna be faster so this is definitely going to be faster and with that it might be worth sort of getting a sense of the room again of whether we want to do my question its new EPS then we can allocate several activities yen and what about other ischemia explain it do we want to terminate as experiment we disallow to do an other issue in experience that\u0027s our conclusion well this is the thing there may be other uses for page seven wish do not conflict with a QC end because they only come into effect when a QC and negotiation fails that means we should change the name of the bit I think at least accurate you if you are using a condition beat is something strange to me Yoshi Jana younger I don\u0027t think that\u0027s I don\u0027t think that is relevant to whether this is pious or experimental that\u0027s a deployment question right so but this is our experimental doesn\u0027t change the fact that the bit on the wire is gonna conflict if you use it in two different ways so I think going to be s make sense independent of that question I wouldn\u0027t I wouldn\u0027t bring those two questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "together okay in this Mia could have been actually in this good spirit of like moving on quickly I have two requests one can we do a hum for again for experimental or propose sender and - can we do a hum for adopting the registration quality change the purpose of the phone because we already have the humbuckers we had a discussion now and I think people change their mind okay just to try and make the hums clear if we do the hums can we do a hum where you don\u0027t care so we don\u0027t vote twice are you saying we\u0027ve had people out to vote twice or once separately I think is a useful point you can reevaluate how you like would like to proceed but darker okay one more time it\u0027s okay okay let\u0027s see if you want to um okay addition as a proposed standard please raise your hand if you don\u0027t care and I know check rate if you don\u0027t key I don\u0027t raise your hand if you don\u0027t I would come to number don\u0027t care as well so that if you really think this is fine please raise your hand yeah it should be PS if you think ok decent should be experimental please raise your hand if you think we don\u0027t keep I don\u0027t care bye I want to publish it please raise your hand okay we are running out of time I think this is very controversial stuff so I I think let\u0027s let\u0027s keep chairs are done some time to think about it okay right guys are we talking about anything in the bottom half of this slide at some point right now I\u0027m trying to do sorry Donna I would like to cut a question if possible make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:00",
    "text": "it short okay I honestly I don\u0027t think it\u0027s it\u0027s controversial I think that people here who don\u0027t care still want to see it published which to me counts as a vote towards going with the shortest path so if if the people there are more people going for PS and there are a lot of people who say yes or experimental don\u0027t care I would count them towards towards either neither or or or or to us yes okay let\u0027s discuss among each yes and then we we will try to think about what\u0027s the best next step probably I will ask several step so a possibility and then right the people choose the bus that\u0027s what I\u0027m thinking right now okay make it quick didn\u0027t people just make kind of choose the parts I mean like you have to confirm on the mailing this yes but I think it was pretty clear what was set in the room yeah so like the of cloth the chest should sit together and and make sure that they all agree that there\u0027s contenders in the room but like my sense of the room is there is consensus room but what\u0027s how it\u0027s not very clear to me how do it do we how do we all get to be 7 that\u0027s not very clear to me that\u0027s what we\u0027d like to confirm on the mailing list as well we have to confirm on the main yes but if we go for proposed standards and it\u0027s very clear how we allocate the bit right in the draft or in the our seat but at the same time we see strong support for that opting there supporting your draft so that\u0027s a meaning of it there are two more bits yeah there to move it\u0027s like a we could pick please yeah no I think that the first of all consensus in TCP must always figured out on the mailing list because we have for example people that don\u0027t attend the meetings so anyway we need to confirm this on the on the mailing list at least this much share head on I also see here quite some momentum on the proposed standard way to do it so that\u0027s probably what I would take out of this discussion and then this means that we can separate out the discussion for what registry trapped as we have to discuss the separately in my opinion and given that this was a very late submission I also think we have time to figure this out for example the next meter I would like to disagree a little bit here because it\u0027s not just decided yet if your proposed standard or experimental right so those an option if you go for experiment we should move very quickly ahead with the registration change and given that there\u0027s like logic women in the room already and we want to move quickly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "anyway it would be nice to at least kind of make a ham about it up in the room now which anyway has under made because we are Jared this share had on the disk draft was submitted after the deadline and the presentation slides were submitted very late so I usual tea CPM means we don\u0027t do an adoption called in that situation and Mia this would not be a good idea and as I said for what I think I hear right now is we don\u0027t even need it we can have the adoption discussion in my opinion on the mailing list later right when people had time to think about the different variants this is Jared on yeah I\u0027m accepting the chat decision but this is also not a usual situation because usually when you propose something that\u0027s not this dependency right there\u0027s a dependency here in this period of moving quickly and I submitted it very late but only because I was discussing this was a chance in the background and like confirming that this is what you want to do but like it\u0027s a chess decision definitely yeah just a data point I\u0027ve just checked through the draw for what the changes will have to be to make it not experimental for the I crazy CN draft I mean and the only things are where it talks about other experiments you just have to say experiments you know because it\u0027s not an experiment yeah okay okay move on to the next stop you know so I\u0027ll try to check in dependency from as a proposal as I mentioned so if people think you know there\u0027s no conflict with a Cartesian SC s EE and if we use some cone if we have some concerns please say your opinion if you say rod crime sure are is ongoing discussion too in that area and I don\u0027t believe we are at a conclusion okay one exactly what the compatibility situation is between a QC and SCE again between l4 s and s EE independence and we would like more time to continue that discussion before we talk very much about it here okay got it Corie fur has very quickly I think the the first thing on the marking of ECC t1 and reporting of it we had a we had a discussion here we thought that was something that accurate ACN should consider I think looking in the room here we should consider whether reporting ECT one behavior is also possible inaccurate ACN on the second one ts vwg did not make a call on that situation it doesn\u0027t plan intend to look at potential conflicts currently there is nothing to report we cannot report anything on the second bullet from TS vwg okay may you live in again so I\u0027m actually can I\u0027m pretty sure that we can\u0027t confirm right now that there\u0027s no conflict because either you don\u0027t use it in the handshake the propose we have right now doesn\u0027t conflict right or you use equities and - can you give shade whatever you want as a feedback scheme "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:00",
    "text": "or if you really want like a header bit then you have to use one of the other two bits because we have two more bits but like I see this it as independent because that\u0027s what we want to use the bit for now and that\u0027s what we have to decide on rod Grimes if the if we change equities hand to a proposed standard if that negotiation fails that the handshake fails as long as the bit that\u0027s allocated to accurate ECM then becomes available for another use then we don\u0027t have a conflict there\u0027s a qualifying thing though that bit has to become available after the the handshake has failed so it gives a deep it gives a default state to the use of the bit and that\u0027s that needs to be addressed so that\u0027s this is also true for the ECE pin and the cwr bit like if you don\u0027t negotiate it they are not used that\u0027s just the way it is okay but probably you have to clarify in the draft you have to clarify in the draft no because it\u0027s the same for ECE and see WR and it\u0027s not clarified in that draft because all we say in the draft is you know if you said the bit in the handshake then afterwards it has this meaning it doesn\u0027t say what happens to the bits if the negotiation fails and that\u0027s I think that\u0027s a right thing to do okay good I might take we still need to discuss a little bit more sorry okay we are running off the time and I\u0027m very sorry that we have four individual presentation yeah so let\u0027s move on supposition but I\u0027m very sorry but just please make really quick Praveen going to talk about high strut plus plus this is mostly a recap of the target at the last IETF so for details you can refer to that talk the only new information I have here is some experimental results from the lab measurements it\u0027s the one about scroll down so the gist of this is that we use delay increase method of the high stud people to exit slow start and then we enter limited slow start now the reason we do that is because high start my exit slow start prematurely and that may cause performance problems so some results here so for large our TT flows we actually see a pretty significant improvement with a simulation of LAN so up to 39 percent on average for an NP 90 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:03",
    "text": "as well for short flows and 14 percent for long flows we don\u0027t see too much difference for short flows small RTD flows anything less than 100 milliseconds and but we see something that is very consistent across all this tests is that even if goodput doesn\u0027t improve the number of retransmissions decrease a lot which means we\u0027re putting less load on the network we\u0027re not cpu limited here so the number of bytes on the network is reduced and our tears are reduce as well and there is some improvement to loss recovery because fewer packets are lost we are awaiting results from a B test I couldn\u0027t get that completed in time for this TCP meeting but preliminary numbers shows again reducing reduction retransmissions we are going to get you numbers on the mailing list from two different online services shortly so currently this is D point on by default in both windows 10 as well as the server side we have a draft posted so if you haven\u0027t read it please review it and provide feedback it\u0027s a really short draft and my request to the group is word of the doctor so how many people rate this draft please raise your hand okay how many people think this can be adopted as information our RFC I have a quick question like because I read your slides right into said VB our setup face and shapers patient sharing this is something you want to still add to the draft no so this strap strands on the Tron it\u0027s just future experiments we\u0027d like to block if we get results on that that would be a separate presentation maybe nice ecog hi aya these results the generally believe they will apply to quick as well they should so I think they will apply pretty much to any slow start any transport that\u0027s doing slow start so that\u0027s a question for maybe the chairs and the CDs is this sort of document belong here or an ICC Arjun because intended status information this is no describe what Microsoft - then I think informational should be fine as TCP I\u0027m working group item from my point of view no it should be fine but my question is if if so let me put it differently I are you considering expanding the scope of the document to include quick as well or are you planning to limit it to TCP currently not currently is describing what\u0027s done in TCP but it does apply to quick so that might be a separate draft or it might be an extension to the quick RFC to suggest that high start may be a way to do slow start both are to Buddha\u0027s are options sure it\u0027s your preference it\u0027s a call I think it\u0027s totally fine to adopt this draft has information on DC PM if you want to modify and then do something then you can go as she charged if you want I think for now we would like to just document this for TCP because it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:03",
    "text": "currently already deployed our next steps what data point is not good maybe we can discontinue this you can if you have something you can update the draft well you can continue you can stimulate discuss on the image X all right to get multiple yeah my request would beautiful people to read this and get feedback because I think this is quite important for us to publish yeah I I will commit to reviewing this thank you and also I just wanted to point out I did a little survey of the main implementations and how they were being used and with high start before high start plus plus and everyone was turning it off so if you\u0027re willing to turn it on then it says something so Linux I believe has it on I think they are also deploying that delay increase algorithm but I believe they don\u0027t have the limited slow start Linux has it own body for but I mean the people who actually operationally use it turn it off I start no hi Star Plus plans I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t think so that\u0027s not true so they typically turn off the the what\u0027s that inter packet arrival and yeah the inter packet arrival bit not the whole algorithm this draft actually specifically states you have to do the deal increase not the interpret right thank you for being if we want we can have a young presentation octo if you can make it one minute that\u0027s fine I\u0027m very sorry for that okay hello everyone so let\u0027s jump quickly we in this document we want to be able to suppress delayed acts in some cases where it and the performs so basically we want to do that through using one of the reserved beads in the TCP header and well this idea deeds in the last revision of the document physically taking into account feedback from the room in Montreal and well in in the annex of the document we have tried to summarize some alternative approaches that might be useful to do what we want to do to some extent and well here are some of them acts EC would weather the sender tells the receiver di Grigio to be used and this entails however some overhead due to the options that are supported there also Talos probe was suggested however this entails sending additional probe segments so perhaps it that some overhead we might prefer to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:03",
    "text": "avoid there also workarounds such as sending an old bite however this is perhaps not so clean and also it may enter sending a whole new packet if there\u0027s no new data available for transmission or something like the split hack supported in the contiki OS which is based on splitting a message into two segments there was a lot of great feedback by risk on the mailing list so thank you very much for that there are additional motivating scenarios for why one may want to suppress delayed acts so one reason is getting up to speed fast without in DC image queue during slow start that had been actually supported for a while in an old version of the actually TC n draft and also there had been discussions in the context of quick for a more general support of communicating the ik ratio and there are other well other use cases for getting treat triggering quick acts so well there have been other comments such as considerations on middle box traversal of bits four to six perhaps not so good and what also suggested using the urgent pointer in an innovative way such as reserving three bits of that to define an accuracy exponent that might be used for several communication communicating several akrasia such as the one which would suppress delayed acts but also perhaps other a gracious and this would be interesting because it adds no overhead perhaps there\u0027s the problem of what happens when the urgent flag is actually set so well that\u0027s basically a quick presentation so I don\u0027t know if there are comments questions the one question I have is how does this differ from the push flag well there was some discussion previous to Montreal and it seemed like setting the push flag doesn\u0027t mean you get an immediate ACK there was some discussion on the mailing list several these cases described and it seemed that someone brought this point but the response from the working group was more than actually you cannot assume that push the push flag means suppressing delay tax all right this looks potentially useful I think I need to read it in more detail thank you so much any more comments okay yeah sucks for lots of discussion okay see you in Vancouver thank you howdy into a world where it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:07:10",
    "text": "easier to publisher stator than experiment or the we think about the registry isn\u0027t like it just add stuff your accuracy if it experiments "
  }
]