[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:39",
    "text": "hello nobody straight look like you\u0027re working yes well there\u0027s that hello Chris Annette how are you so we\u0027re on the brobdingnagian three room and it\u0027s one minute starting time yes welcome to the extra session we expect going to finish early given the the length of time we have in there positive material that showed up for this one but who knows how long I\u0027m at 4 M 2 will take or we have the note well reminder of code of conduct based on discussions yesterday in the plenary it\u0027s a good time to remind everybody that well you\u0027re quite welcome to attack ideas don\u0027t attack people oh yes I was it was lovely and this is a very small and very effective little group that we have yeah all right this is the agenda I put a couple of items on the end I wonder which is milestones has came up in the chairs group the fact that our milestones are in the past and maybe we should review them and update them to be something slightly realistic and keep ourselves a little bit accountable about what we working on them and where we\u0027re going a question of whether we want to revive sixty four-bit and at the end of the current set of documents we don\u0027t have any new work flowing in at the moment should we close the group down or hibernate the group for a while and see if new work comes along discuss in the time that we have here any other gender bashing very hitting agendas not people sure we have a bunch of concealer should we do that first yeah just very quickly I think for the most part I think this working group is very good and very productive and we usually fingers girls don\u0027t get discusses on documents we do have however I get some comments so the document safe date is held in Point Reyes right up needed meaning that basically I\u0027m waiting for it to go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:42",
    "text": "through comments and say yes or no I think Stephin actually went he replied but he didn\u0027t post a new version so yeah Stefan had some was waiting for a response from Ned on something as well okay am I supposed to do it there\u0027s something with this document I didn\u0027t notice actually because the the the reason I\u0027m asking for net is not saved at it all right so yeah I\u0027m basically with save date I\u0027m happy to approve the document anytime now but I think you\u0027re applied to various comments did you make any changes to your to your copy of the draft not so far okay so do you know where to find is G comments in data tracker well on the main is G review page yes you can see all the comments in one is I mean again if there are comments you don\u0027t have to just blindly follow them it\u0027s it\u0027s okay to argue against it\u0027s just and it\u0027s sure thank you alright so this document here [Music] don\u0027t worry too much about the template this will be fixed by editor not too worried NIT recipe should there be an example for the new response case question so that\u0027s why I\u0027ve provided a bit of an example text but in the end he didn\u0027t even want to have everything included it\u0027s just wanted to know what it would look like so based on that one I don\u0027t expect any changes fine then I can prove it cool yes and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:50",
    "text": "there were questions regarding back load see if FCC and that\u0027s its revised draft needed yes so action so on this one there were two comments that I raised trying to implement it one about use of optional tags it looks like consensus from people who are interested that yeah we should ideally use a tag but it\u0027s okay not to use it if so net thought that was okay and Jim Schowalter thought that well we can relax the requirement to use tags to should and yeah so yeah I don\u0027t don\u0027t have a any strong objections to [Music] I\u0027ll double-check I didn\u0027t I don\u0027t think I only I thought I only posted two comments I\u0027m trying to remember where they I posted a separate ad review probably not okay cool so yeah I\u0027ll update this to move forward oh I can follow up with Ken when he wakes up after us yeah yep and then Stefan was asking about go from that to double check I\u0027m up examples but I can do that so that\u0027s fine all right was there anything I think the only other document we have in progress here is yeah fed preview we\u0027ll talk about later I look forward to we\u0027ll talk about later and see if special use I think we happy with so that\u0027s ready to go through to submit for publication sorry I I had the brain fart because all the comments I was talking about what about special used yeah okay right CC does require new revision it sort of introduced well I think we talked about it earlier that attacked arguments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:50",
    "text": "cannot have other arguments as as parameters yep so I don\u0027t think the document implies this anymore but it has a BNF that sort of kind of implies this so I would like to clarify that that\u0027s not the case is just that FCC can be used with other parameters yeah I think I suggested a specific change cool I will follow up with Ken on that we\u0027re using this one in production already so we know it works to some degree but yeah having the doctor be right we\u0027ll be good all right moving on I\u0027m at before Rev 2 slides your back one of you that yes my apologies for coughing so much into microphone the wick is catching up with me and my cold is getting worse right next slide I probably skip skip goals that\u0027s just sort of to remind what you know what we\u0027re trying to achieve changes so we\u0027ve added literal - so non synchronizing literals and also ported in text in various places where the text says there are two types of strings it says a the three types of strings or you know if it doesn\u0027t matter which the literal type it is I asked people to double check the text and maybe an F hopefully I\u0027ll quote all the cases there are a few sections where the difference method so you know please double check then we had a great contribution by Chris Newman both about a support for bi messages and utf-8 mailboxes as well as allowing utf-8 in quoted strings that\u0027s probably the biggest change in the latest revision and then there was a little extra thing for status a size to return who just published extensions a stint right so this is just folding folding they\u0027re holding it in all right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:00",
    "text": "so the document has an appendix where it sort of has suggested directions and marks the stuff which is done so it\u0027s slightly bigger than this section but these are the main things remaining I think body structure is I found to be quite problematic part of the protocol will probably need more examples especially showing folded messages message arts here to do is always a special case yeah this is Barry I think examples will help I also think explanatory text will help I think the it\u0027s not the original text in IMAP was not very explanatory just say here\u0027s what you do bla and that was it and then it expected you to go to the a BNF and figure it out so I think if we run through some more pros it will help sure the other thing is what they typically do is there is a big example that shows moderately complicated message with MS body-part numbering which does help a little bit but you know every time I have a bug I go to this example then I check what Syrus is doing and that\u0027s not ideal we really need to have enough text or actually to be able to extract this information yeah and ideally the IMAP tester should have the example it\u0027s in the spec in there as well so that it can test that example against all service right and I also think that putting text into all of this stuff just pointing out that you can\u0027t put extra blank spaces in and that kind of stuff will help because people even though the grammar if you read the grammar carefully it makes it clear that no blanks are allowed people just assume that in between parentheses you can put blanks yeah and they and then they have buggy implementations so I think we need to put words in that make that very clear so that people don\u0027t trip over it yeah I\u0027ve got Stefan yeah an official IMAP protocol wiki and that contains a few lists of best practices and also mark Christman\u0027s ten commandments of how to write an IMAP clients maybe you can draw some inspiration from there for this verification section sure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "the other thing sort of related to body structure is we probably need more examples of body part of mine body part dot header because again this is another thing that I always use my own server or Cyrus to test against to see what the behaviors because in some case for some body part types they equivalent and for others they produce entirely different results so again probably more clarification more examples will be helped yeah this geomap test actually has a buggy test for binary parts because they\u0027re not it\u0027s not the same as that\u0027s the non binary version that stuff\u0027s confusing in there John let me aim visit this is just a question I notice it requires that and that for character sets support you have to support ask in utf-8 but you may support other other character sets I\u0027m wondering is there enough legacy interest and other character sets we can\u0027t kill them [Music] yeah anyway for those following at home that\u0027s my question my question was could we make those the only two character sets and kill the other ones as an implementer I I would love to do this for practical cases no you can\u0027t I would look and Thunderbird still junior able a lot of you know if there is law there are like three or four Cyrillic ones for example and they still can generate these maybe I\u0027m not sure what John is asking so are you talking about in in the content of the messages are you talking about in the protocol oh I\u0027m talking about yeah the protocol has me clearly in mind body - good whatever garbage you want okay but the question was like in the IMAP messages that go back and forth yeah and I yeah oh well thank you because the draft currently says you may support other characters as if I remember correctly it probably talks about search and search is different search you need to support whatever is in messages everything else sent is either ascii or ET afraid so that\u0027s we don\u0027t support any other character sets in human readable messages modified you tf7 right yes it\u0027s basically massage in a section saying if you want to support both a map for f1 and f2 in the same server you might have to support it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:11",
    "text": "[Music] hopefully this is not going to be controversial but one thing I\u0027m thinking about is I\u0027m a port of one never acquired UID fetch item to be returned in unsolicited fetches can we make this a requirement yes definitely +1 to that because otherwise clients see the Unser\u0027s they see the fetch response and they immediately do a fetch UID to get the UID on that message and it\u0027s stupid to make them do that yeah if you enable curie think you already get them but other right which is not fully included in this but yes this because curie sink will return your IDs and vanished response it would really be nice to have your IDs everywhere coming from the server and the client has a choice of using using your IDs or message times the other two remaining things I so I think we agreed to add list extended without multiple these patterns because nobody really does multiple dispersions and related to they say is we need to expose status and list which is quite a useful and common optimization together with this next slide the hell now so I don\u0027t really talk to my koi to turn this but I think that\u0027s probably the easiest way is add everything we want to add and then the final pass do they well I mean we can do it in you know sort of in parallel but then it would be slightly easier to compare I think everything on this slide we talked about in Montreal and none of its controversial so so I had one thing that I wanted to raise which was removing the ability to rename inbox to something else and have the magic inbox renamed happen you mean you renamed inbox to something else and have it create a new inbox yeah now yeah that this another magic if your server allows some mailboxes of inbox it has to move them under the new renamed inbox or the other way there is a special case yes lots of weird stuff happens with that particular case so what are you suggesting that we do suggesting that rename inbox isn\u0027t it allowed that you instead created new mailbox and moves and messages I\u0027m I\u0027m ok with that but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:12",
    "text": "don\u0027t know if everybody Nick did Chris Stefan what do you think forbid renaming inbox I thought I\u0027d have to ask Timo because I don\u0027t have a preference there ask Timo Jimmy Serena yeah um I agree I think when you\u0027d probably more feedback from existing limitations my initial reaction is I\u0027m happy to say should not allow but I think I\u0027m not at all sure we can make it a must not yeah Chris is asking yeah so yes and I think the use case for this is poor-man\u0027s well not actually poorer it\u0027s a convenient way on the client to archive the whole mailbox yes you take the snapshots its current snapshot and move it to another place so right and so the part of the question is a do clients actually use that and B do we want to say we\u0027re gonna make it a really complicated crap for the server so that the client has an easy way to archive the inbox I don\u0027t know I hope that\u0027s what we have now but it is what we have now so maybe the default is we just have to keep it the way it is and oh well yeah I think one of the goals is try to keep it easier on the client side I mean I already have complex changes service mode of the service already do this Oh yep all right I keep sort of slightly modifying this as we go I think this is probably hopefully the last time we discuss things that we can possibly add like fold into the document so move is actually the the new thing as in it wasn\u0027t on my list initially but I think this is quite common and quite convenient clients like to hear what people think about it how widely implemented is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:12",
    "text": "extension fairly exchange had a buggy implementation of it for a while it believes it fixed it now but they they thought they didn\u0027t need to the untagged response they thought was don\u0027t put any tag on it at all rather than put a star space I mean if if we think it\u0027s a widely enough one of the points is this was to take the widely implemented extensions and put them in I think it\u0027s widely enough implemented we should put it in I mean I\u0027d love to see replace in there as well but that\u0027s Brandi right yes you know I\u0027m not for this case I\u0027m not worried about the client implementations the clients can use it or not as they please it\u0027s a question of whether the server\u0027s have to implement it and if they\u0027re implementing it any way we should write next this so tress to remind people yeah it\u0027s a way of searching for messages and then using the search result in other commands you can do sub search by including it in other the more complicated search you can fetch or copy move you know delete you know whatever I\u0027m sort of of two minds about this I thought it was fairly useful because I am one of the co-authors and then there are specific cases where you sort of want to do automation that thing in interactive clients it\u0027s probably less useful but I would like to hear what people think about this Chris Newman says this error has not implemented move prefer to leave it out I\u0027m guessing the error Trez is not very widely implemented meters well why don\u0027t we just ask about all these about these on the list try to collect more information what why state is deleted is that the use case is try to find out how much quarter you can free by deleting the mailbox or sometimes you want to know how many undeleted messages there I mean if you don\u0027t give the sizes the message it doesn\u0027t tell you how much quota you\u0027re gonna release so I don\u0027t see that that\u0027s important this is something we\u0027re bad to add to a server is the number of messages that are not deleted in the mailbox because we\u0027ve got some issues with with counts because we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:12",
    "text": "ignore deleted stuff via chairmat so we will have an accurate number that we could quickly return for this but but what what what does that they do with that information what could what will the client do differently if you say there are three row three deleted messages or their attendance what will the client do with that information yeah okay so it might be more useful actually the size of to leave messages potentially but again because this direct application you know somebody running close to that quarter then they doe how much they can free yeah yeah yeah that that would be a similar deleted size that thing related messages very frequently on mailboxes from looking at limitary that\u0027s quite a common query is to list the deleted messages I mean I guess if you can do a if you can fetch the size of all the deleted messages that might be more useful Pete says can you be able to search that but that\u0027s why I\u0027m saying I think state is deleted a question how useful yeah the point of status is you don\u0027t need to open mailbox you you get n1 command its well yes it doesn\u0027t seem as lots of use cases with this move you shove everything in time app for web to excited people watching in front Ron I think look it\u0027s not something that already exists as an IMAP extension and one of our goals IMAP for of to mostly is to pull in stuff that\u0027s already been been proven out and the fear but it was proposing this as a separate extension that can be used on top of okay so let\u0027s ask all of these I think with binary if last time we discussed is I think Chris Newman suggested that we add the fetch size of binary but no sir not necessarily a band size of it but again this is something you can double-check on and kindest right yeah when this the list of past changes and so on and so on all right so it sounds like just about everything move a take it to the mailing list a further discussion yeah but it looks like most of this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:13",
    "text": "probably not going to be reflected in the document anyway so yeah I think actually it looks like the end is very near now yeah Neal again what do we discuss the object ID one that one\u0027s interesting just it\u0027s not while implemented on say it\u0027s just been pushed out it does let clients being way more efficient you know in many cases I think it might be quite interesting but it\u0027s fairly new as well and some service didn\u0027t do it so I think one money to do a survey of servers and if people don\u0027t do it now how willing they will be to if this is a part of the I\u0027m up for f2 or I will take an action to email they do various IMAP related mailing lists that still exist out there they are met protocol yeah I\u0027ll send a send an overall message to every we\u0027re saying he\u0027s what we\u0027re discussing and then and then yeah come to extra if you want to discuss the individual items cool my last question to the authors is what kind of timeline are you looking at for here what milestones would react to this I don\u0027t know what do you think about saying yeah more I was gonna say March yeah yeah put it in put in a date of March for sending for publication requested cool thank you all right back to snippet slash preview the new draft was posted the other day has anyone had a chance to read through it yet sorry I haven\u0027t either do do one question I had was whether 200 characters is enough whether we should say that the server can do up to 255 which will align it with J map and is a power of 2 ish number rather than a random number I think we should get rid of these bizarre numbers and say it\u0027s 200 or 300 you know whatever get rid of geeky numbers no more geeky numbers that\u0027s my campaign Alexis says no 2 5 5 is great yeah I I do think there is a small battle looming using empower 2-1 in which if you\u0027re storing affixed your records and fixed sizes new allocating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:14",
    "text": "size for the preview you\u0027re probably gonna want it to be a power of 2 it\u0027s unlikely I give you the the J my respect simply says it can\u0027t be more than that it\u0027s not saying it has to be long it\u0027s kind of it\u0027s just you need a limit to say we don\u0027t want you sending megabytes megabytes texts here cuz the client expecting to fetch a lot of these in one go and it\u0027s just meant to be a short PP 282 acres now I think yeah a hundred no III I wish I I think we tried 120 800 me 8 whatever and on quite a few common screen sizes with common preview layouts it was visually haven\u0027t even seen an author jumping up to - how much is this one who are the authors open exchange yeah all right so I guess we take that discussion to the list arguing over numbers other than that I think we\u0027re ready to go to working group last call on everyone was happy with it at previous discussions other than mr. size and the name was he changing the name to preview is is clear to everybody what it is the idea that fuzzy or non fuzzy and optional or not was all fine and just to make it clear my my whining about the geeky numbers thing was just a whine it let\u0027s not waste our time arguing about the exact length too too much yeah the main reason for concern is that if you were trying to align a server between IMAP and J map it\u0027s good to have the same number in both all right seems special use we\u0027ve already discussed a little bit yeah everyone seems happened with the feedback and we\u0027re going to go ahead and submit that for publication after today\u0027s meeting unless anyone has during any objections all right you\u0027ve been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:14",
    "text": "told go go go go let\u0027s go right up there first 64-bit we decided to put it away before do we say it\u0027s all too hard and labored or do we want to revive 64-bit hey Curt says maybe we should indent I\u0027m at v6 and go to 128 that we could call it we could call it IMAP slash three hey yep I wonder what I should appear going to do when they hit version 9 and they have to deal with the whole positives that only look at the first character issue nine point something all right hey thanks good at it at least in mind Jim Evans I\u0027m app in this case Jim app is doing something with the JavaScript limits right Neil\u0027s coming up this is Neil yeah basically wherever there\u0027s a number it must be less than we call to 2 to the 53 or greater than minus 2 to the 53 because that\u0027s the largest int that what\u0027s more that you can fit into a double voting point without losing decision so that\u0027s that\u0027s what we sent and we already decided to add that to the 64 bit as well to make it CC 3 bit so 16 still quite a bit more than 50 52 is probably probably enough for now go back to what I said in Montreal has anybody got a real situation where 32 bits have not been no in our case so you know why are we looking at adding complexity when nobody needs this this is nearly an in-game app the server doesn\u0027t have to implement more than 32 bits because that would I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anywhere where it has to accept something about that big it\u0027s just that it must not return something more than 53 bits in that because it may not be presentable in clients or it\u0027s not guaranteed to be all right so this sounds like it\u0027s its support for we just ditch 64-bit Chris says we\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:14",
    "text": "encountered 63 bit requirements for status size and for quota usage but not for individual messages right and status size is 64 bit in IMAP for f2 so I think that\u0027s fine cool all right so we just imap4 read to provides for 63 bit values for those things or 53 bit values or whatever we want you can say 63 bit values and they\u0027ll still be representable at 53 bits up until people have a very large mailbox anyway all right cool all right so 64 bit can stay dead milestones so at the moment we just have IMAP 4 over 2 which is planning to be finished by prog I don\u0027t know of any other work coming that that fits within our current Charter does anyone else know of anything that\u0027s coming out we don\u0027t know of anything up Stefan why don\u0027t you go first revising this if main document for eai you\u0027re going to do it yeah I can take the lead on that but I don\u0027t really like a whole working group week waiting for me alone it\u0027s a seed a way we can just not schedule meetings so that yeah what I got up to say was more generally the hibernation versus shutting down whatever is I\u0027ve always been in favor of having an open working group to deal with emails stuff and if the iesg is good with that I would rather just have it go dormant there\u0027s no overhead in having a working group that isn\u0027t doing anything and doesn\u0027t need meeting time so I\u0027d rather leave it alone you had to question something they they have two different answers government working groups I agree as an area director they don\u0027t take any of my time as long as they I know they\u0027re dormant as opposed to you know I want them to do something and they don\u0027t not getting thing done as far as generic email working group well I tried before that\u0027s the best I can get away with as long as you\u0027re the responsible ad nobody else is gonna care and you\u0027ll just let it hover you know we don\u0027t know what\u0027s gonna happen when you step down and another ad comes in and says hey what\u0027s this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:15",
    "text": "working group that isn\u0027t doing anything but you know I presume you\u0027ll brief the new ad and it ought to work and we certainly have working groups in the ietf that it existed for 25 years they keep they keep producing stuff well and I hope we will keep producing stuff just with gaps in between that\u0027s all at the point where we figure we\u0027re not going to produce stuff anymore then we can shut down yeah another thing that was on the on the maybe look at at some point is quite a bit whether we go back and reassess Twitter and Ned points out we\u0027ve been having this discussion since mail axed yeah actually what a be as was the one I had a draft for but if somebody else wants to pick up up I\u0027ll give them the source which differs from artsy a little bit besides if we stay dormant then it keeps brawling in John Kong with blue dots forever yeah got the blue dot and gives you free Wednesday lunch it\u0027s not free we have to sit through the session all right and at that point we are on to other other business is there anything else for us to deal with at this meeting something entirely unappropriate for the chapter this working group but a lot of relevant people are here can we do smtp a related working group that\u0027s not what i got up to say but i think it would be a perfectly good thing to do with this we would have to reach artur to do it because I believe our Charter says specifically we will not do that but I would not mind reach our Turing to do that I know that there\u0027s a certain curmudgeonly person with a beard a little longer than mine who would probably howl cleansin would like to do it but is quite afraid that the loonies will come out of the bin and take over I\u0027m willing to give it a try if John is or if John is willing to turn it over should we reach our or just start another working group says Kirk I think we already have the structure here I think reach are during this one would be the way to go and the question so then is we were talking about RFC 5321 RFC 5322 and then perhaps the mine specs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:17",
    "text": "I mean the the the the bigger the real anomaly are 53:21 and 53:22 because 821 and 822 are internet standard level and they are obsolete and they\u0027re obsoleted by something that\u0027s proposed standard so that that\u0027s the anomaly we can soon it doesn\u0027t exist anymore so so yeah right because 23 21 and 23 22 were proposed to n so they\u0027re draft standard doesn\u0027t exist anymore we can\u0027t elevate it to internet standard because of edits that need to be done so yeah I think we should attack those mine we can just fluff on because there is no internet standard version of mine yet so while we would like to take mine to internet standard we don\u0027t have to with mime is actually there are several documents that really needs a BNF updating like folding you know I would really like to fold all older at hand but so is this something that we should probably just take to the list and see if the group wants to continue sort of as the same core group and change the work space and recharter or not we can certainly ask the working group if it would rather recharter or spin off another working group but I mean that people can come and go and the people who don\u0027t want to work on it don\u0027t have to work on it and people who didn\u0027t want to work on this crap but do want to work on that will show up yeah so the main thing is I think we need to loop in John cleansin discuss that with him but Pete you grumbled from the back but didn\u0027t really say anything wanted to come up to the mic and chat just woman\u0027s now quickly is to go here just to kind of fold in a router and get a nicer thing or is it to actually add new stuff or revising it\u0027s the former but there are known issues that need to be dealt with and there are known people who have their own debt issues that they think will need to be dealt and that\u0027s the problem the jabber line Ned has been commenting in jabber here that he thinks recharter he seems like less work but keep the Charter tight tolerate zeros the problem just a little background before he comes out there just a little background for the people that weren\u0027t here at the time we\u0027ve tried a couple of times to do this and one of them was an experiment that we said we are going to write a contract with the iesg in advance that says this is gonna be tight work it\u0027s gonna get done very nothing and don\u0027t make us update things that we that we don\u0027t want to update like don\u0027t make us conform to current standards of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:20",
    "text": "how we do this stuff let us just put in what we need and get this at internet standard and the iesg couldn\u0027t agree to that and so we wound up collapsing if you buy me enough beer so I\u0027ll tell you my area directors version of this because I was new agey and the working group was chartered just because if I was part of the discussion but I just charted maybe I charted it but yeah there was very interesting discussions about I don\u0027t think it was just iced teas fault but I did not didn\u0027t mean to blame the iesg this speed 5322 is simple errata it does not have any of the issues of it\u0027s going to upset the IAS GE to advance it it\u0027s a different sort of thing I the only reason that I grumbled in the back is the there is no longer serious difference in overhead between reach our Turing and making a new working group and the only advantage to making a new working group is it\u0027s a separate mailing list and therefore if some people want to participate on one and not the other they can do that and likely I\u0027m going subscribe to both because all I have to do is subscribe to it with my IMAP client on the ietf IMAP server and I can read them or not read them as I see fit so you know for what it\u0027s worth we\u0027re all where are we on this what do we want to do well I think we should propose on the mailing list that we do that we do this either in this working group or in another chartered working group and see what people say what do you think how long will it take to put the final bow on everything Kurt asks yeah I mean I think in theory in theory we could turn this but in theory we could turn this around in a month or two that\u0027s see if we can well you know I\u0027m just talking about the work that the working group would have to do but that\u0027s that\u0027s if we can really keep out the the extraneous stuff so and that\u0027s assuming that we hit it at a time when cleansin has time to spend on it or is willing to turn it over to somebody who does so yeah anyway I think we should just bring it to the list and see what people think and make sure that cleanses copy what I got up for was a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:21",
    "text": "bit of a digression on stuff so we want to think about it and in any other business I wanted to talk about what Braun said at the plenary last night was I think it\u0027s worth it a few a few words see he brought up what happened in Montreal with the people who came with the client ID stuff and I know I particularly was aggressive about telling them I thought it was a bad idea for the following reasons and we\u0027ve been through this before and they kept pushing back and I kept pushing back and I don\u0027t remember whether other people pushed back also but yes they they definitely left with the impression that we were telling him to go the fuck away and I certainly was not intending to tell them that and I don\u0027t know that other people were either but that\u0027s the that\u0027s the feeling I\u0027m sure they got do we want to discuss that further here or is that it seems to be a discussion that\u0027s happening throughout the ITF at the moment right not just us and and I think in our case they came in very strongly believing that their spec was perfect and that any questions about it were were basically us being obnoxious so I don\u0027t know that given how much pushback there was even at the idea of renaming it from ID to something else but okay yes and so I agree with what you say the question even you nevertheless the question remains were we too abrasive about it were we being dicks I don\u0027t know John as I said yesterday fairly well because he\u0027s he\u0027s been he\u0027s one of these little cottage email providers has been around forever yeah you know and I think it was mostly unfortunate I think he kind of didn\u0027t understand how limited his understanding was and and I think this sort of goes back to beam up you know I wish there were like an orientation core you know it\u0027s sort of like before you get into the pool you have to take a shower yeah it would be nice if there are some way you could say no really this is you know this is this is this is how things work and it\u0027s kind of mandatory and you know and you know and if we don\u0027t have them given and if it\u0027s not the way you\u0027re used to working it\u0027s it\u0027s not because we hate you it\u0027s just because it\u0027s not what we do yeah yeah I felt like when I came into the eyes yes my expectations aligned to the experience I got clearly his people yeah frankly you\u0027re you\u0027re really well informed which helps a lot and I always use Aleksei as an example of somebody who came into the ietf the right way paying attention listening contributing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:22",
    "text": "a little bit here and there and then by the time he was a major contributor everybody knew him and accepted him respected him not every year right not everybody behaves that way but Ned says I had a bunch of offline discussion with the client ID people it was not productive maybe they were talking past me and I didn\u0027t catch it but I was definitely talking past them yes yeah and somebody pointed out it might have been John that last night that just because you are passionate about your idea and you speak well about it doesn\u0027t mean it isn\u0027t a bad idea yeah so I don\u0027t know but well I just want to make sure that we at least don\u0027t think that we were being excessive about how we pushed back at them I don\u0027t think I was but I don\u0027t have my own perspective only yeah looking back at my experience of it because I was talking to them via email before they came to the meeting maybe I didn\u0027t make it clear enough that what they needed to present was a technical argument not a sales pitch because they came in with a sales pitch and I felt quite bad for them that they they came in with the wrong expectations and maybe I could have done a better job of setting their expectations before they arrived this is Pete with no hats on whatsoever I promise but might I point out that if you want people to be prepared to come here it would do all of us who are senior in the community well if we would volunteer to be guides or mentors or whatever we\u0027re calling them lately and step up and take on helping someone a few weeks ahead of time instead of just on the sunday of the meeting so that we can get them up to speed and this is Barry that assumes that they are willing to be good and it\u0027s not clear that these people were yeah I think I was probably the person who encouraged them initially and I think I will I believe I was trying to convey that you know it shouldn\u0027t be marketing sales pitch issue it\u0027s not a rubber stamping exercise I think I try to warn them about expectations the feeling I got that well I thought that were pretty much United in our opinion about it we just some of was for a stronger and others was wrong about it we probably could have salvaged something if they were willing to negotiate but I felt it required quite a bit of extra work on everybody\u0027s part [Music] yeah the other thing that I raised last night was the difference between a tourist in a newbie that a newbie comes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:23",
    "text": "in expecting to to do work as well as to receive what they want for it whereas the tourist is coming to to get their thing done and then leave and doesn\u0027t have any long-term involvement plans won\u0027t be around to support it once it once it reaches standard necessarily I guess the other thing that comes to mind about other businesses whether we should chat about being me at all giving them different be me given that we have time no nevermind the status is that we\u0027re trying to figure out whether we want to encourage them to have a boffin Vimy is a design that lets domains publish logos basically so that mail systems can say yeah I\u0027ve been talking to people at bala Vale about it and I suggested that since it has limited technical content might be make more sense to document what they have intended for the independent screen and the only reason that what I was telling Alexey my opinion is the only reason I don\u0027t want to do that is I think there\u0027s some actively bad things some active actively damaging things about it that I would rather we discuss in 90s it\u0027s Neil I haven\u0027t seen this since about a year and a half ago whenever I was a more in San Cisco yeah so I have to see what\u0027s what\u0027s changed we were not particularly yeah but we came around to accepting that the idea of something like this to encourage adoption of authenticated email had some value as a carrot but whether this is the right thing right that they went from promoting this as a security measure to promoting it as a way to get more adoption of dkm and Demark by giving it an encouragement to do it and given the if that were the only emphasis there if they were only selling it as a we\u0027ll get your logo in front of people if you implement Deacon I wouldn\u0027t be worried I\u0027m worried because there\u0027s still the undercurrent of this being a security solution and I\u0027m afraid that that sets bad expectations and opens us up to attacks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:24",
    "text": "I guess this sounds like it\u0027s something that belongs to the Dame awkward and group rather than this working group did my cousin that for a little while yeah so I mean that vendors right in the generic comment I have just with no hats I think that things like various governments like UK and US government\u0027s Monday gingy mark probably have bigger effect and I think there is way more to mark deployments because of this so it feels like there is actually much more critical mass these days so it doesn\u0027t need an extra portion government mandates work well for the folks that they can impose that upon which is essentially their own people it doesn\u0027t work in the commercial space and that\u0027s where the Binney group is trying to appeal to the the financial self-interest yeah exactly yeah so I don\u0027t the other question that comes out of this is we\u0027ve got extra we\u0027ve got J map we\u0027ve got D mark we had MTA sts stuff happening in UTA there\u0027s a lot of different groups working in email and with a very similar set of people going to them do we need to consolidate at all not UTA staff UTA has enough of other well yeah UT is going to work on Tillis one point three recommendations deprecating TL s11 and other things so they\u0027re more generic there would be some potential email stuff there yeah yeah the other thing that I raised before this meeting and was wondering about is should we try and schedule a combined session for these things rather than than separate I think it would not be a bad thing to coordinate the sessions so that they were sharing a larger session or something or consecutive or something like that that would be fine but yes I agree that they should be separate working groups still yeah if we booked a two-hour slot with no FH that might be a good use of time and mm secular one and a half hour slots with the break in between or something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:31",
    "text": "next time you request gym I have an extra and or extra do put this as a comment yeah in this long I didn\u0027t but I didn\u0027t already for this one but I think we\u0027re done thanks everybody thanks to the remote ease who are in it\u0027s slightly weird times in their time zones okay Chris Ned Shawn go to sleep goodnight you you "
  }
]