[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "uh um so i think we can start hello everyone sorry about you so this is the past competition element working obsession the first one of the the two that you can see summarized here so first of all people on site are supposed to wear masks so i'm the the picture this too far to to check if everyone is doing it but uh i guess harry can have a look at that and there are some available at the registration desk if i understood correctly if you need one so please try to follow that people for safety of everyone okay so usual not well this is an etf meeting there are rules about ipr you're supposed to follow that sorry okay so make sure you are aware of those rules and that you are following them most of the things you do when contributing to the etf is subject to some ipr rules so supposed to be aware of all them and make sure that you rewrote you wrote those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "references here you read them okay so there are many people remote again this time so the tool that we're using to share remote session is a new version of mythical there's a new mythical client that may help people on site but for most people remote i think the heavy mythical client is still the the one to use make sure your audio is off when you aren't supposed to talk to avoid glitches we have a queueing rule there there's a single queue that mixes both the the light client for people on site on the usual mythical queue for people remote so make sure that even if you're on site you join the queue from mexico that will help the chair to control the queue and give the floor to people in a proper order in case of issue on site harry is over there you can see him sitting on the desk so be gentle to him and he will be the one taking over in case of issue for remote shells so the usual links uh so if you want to go over the agenda and other useful information there in the slide deck uh usual kind of conduct within the etf i hope everyone is familiar with them nothing new there but make sure that you are familiar with them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "hopefully this will reduce in the upcoming meetings but we're still remote harry is there john already is already there in case of a strong issue for the session on site so harry on top of being on site will be in charge of taking notes so if you want to give him a hand there is the link here to the notes ietf.org feel free to add your own notes especially in case of mix up with names or if something you may have set on the mic isn't properly noted in the minutes your contribution is very helpful to the total notes of the meeting we have a tight agenda as usual so make sure that we are following the time some usual reminders we know that following the values lockdowns travel constraints the involvement in some work in the etf is not the same as before but working group still needs some involvement to make sure the work progresses efficiently so please try to evoke as much as possible especially at adoption polls working glass call document reviews the ietf working group documents need some people to be involved all along the process so make sure that when you're involved or interested in some topic you voice your opinion contribute on even if it's more remotely than it used to be for some of us it's still very important to make proper use of the mailing list on get involved into the threads on the mailing list there is the new delete tool for the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "chat so it's turned out to the medical chat there onto the former jabber service so far uh if you want to join using the client it's another way to to chat with the working group okay the agenda hopefully no one wants to bash anything from the agenda okay so consider it's okay so keep in mind that only half of the time to the pc working room is today on the other half will happen tomorrow working group status okay there is no newer test in the the last ietf meeting but the walking route has been producing some document anyway uh one of them has been in the rfc editor queue for a while and is waiting for a reference to another document uh this is something that will progress in the near future so no no fear there this supposed to be resolved in the coming months three other documents are within the 80s hand with some publication requested for association for extended flags on stateful gmpls extensions so those were sent to the ig yes iesg will progress hopefully by the next itf meeting uh other news from the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "you may have noticed that today another ipr disclosure was sent to the pc mailing list it's about flow spec rfc so we need to have a look at this [Music] disclosure on the issue of concern please use the mailing list there to start discussing on two other were sent earlier this year one of them is about a working group draft about multipass on the other one is about the effect which is on today's agenda um healthier location so you were aware that the utf has mayana holly allocation could point policy we have several documents that have been following this process to get early code points for early implementations so we have those four already identified within the ayanna virtue for the required cut points some were already renewed depending on the progress of the document within the working good process if you believe that your specifications requires some holy cut points for some interrupt testing early implementations and so on please contact the chairs and we'll share with the working group to to coach about the consensus on triggering the early allocation policy for each case that we receive document status do you want to take the floor draft from there let me get back the slide control"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "yes hi hi everyone so let's just talk a little bit about all the working group documents that we have and i would also urge the authors to join the queue if they would like to add something and give an update to the working group so first we have a document that we have recently done a working group last call on that is the local protection enforcement currently it is waiting for shepard review it's in julian's hand so you should be expecting uh the review of this pretty soon and then we will be sending it out uh to our ap piece up yet uh we have a recent update this update handles the second yang doctor review that was done for this document as a part of yang doctor's review there was a section on objectives for this young model and this was found to be little repetitive and pretty standard so we moved it to appendix rather than to the core of the document there was a comment on uh bicep mip that since we borrow a lot of elements from psep map it would be good to have a clear relationship so we have added an apple x where we have relationship between the pset gang and a psep mip so which would be quite useful we did change some names of the leaves as per the yang practices some groupings which were used only once were collapsed and since we had completed work on stateful gmpls we also added stateful gm plus capability into the yang model and some examples were updated and with the help of a tool they were validated as well so at this stage this document is uh quite ready for working group last call we can see all the dependencies on the right hand side as well and uh even the dependency that we were worried about which was itf tls client"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "and server they are making progress in netconf so i think it's the right time to send this document and last call this and since i'm the author of this document uh julian would be running the process the next one is our srv6 document it underwent two updates uh there is already an ina allocation which is done uh be enhanced the authors enhanced the security consideration section and mainly all other changes were editorial and since we were we already have one document in rfc editor queue which is waiting for this uh we should prioritize this and uh last call this and send it out of the working group pretty soon so if anybody has any comments doubts uh like you know please feel free to join the queue and authors or anybody else who has concerns on these documents this is your time to use it otherwise i will continue with the next document uh some of the documents which are almost ready but did not have much update between the two itfs are the native ip and flex grid we will be taking them up soon so if you want to review them and make sure that they are up to date this would be a good time to do that one document which did not see any progress neither from the chair side or from the working group in the last meeting we asked for more feedback on what we could do about the enhanced errors uh document uh we still have no id which is currently using it we thought stateful interdomain could be won but there hasn't been an update on that and we haven't received any feedback but as a working group we have to make a decision on what we are going to do with this document uh we are still listening so reach out to us if you have an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "opinion on this the other working group ids we have a path segment with this path segment there has been no change but one thing which i wanted to from the chairs point of view we wanted to highlight is currently this document is listing two mechanisms uh via it allows path segment allocation via path segment tlv it also allows the pcc mechanism to allocate a path segment so we want to make sure that that we have the working group backing that both these mechanisms should be supported or do we need to discuss and like you know support only a single one of these so this discussion has not happened and we feel that this document is otherwise ready so this is the only open issue that we could see so if the working group or the authors have any opinion on this please come now or use the mailing list to discuss this further but this is one issue that we will be tracking and seeing nobody jumping the queue i'll continue the next one is the bi-directional sr path it had no change and we feel this document is quite ready for last call as well so if anybody has any concerns or authors have any opinion please let us know and all this information is also captured in the wiki so if you would like to go and update the wiki please do that it's the wiki is for the whole working group not just for the chairs so please provide inputs in the wiki as well as your document is if the document has any issues or need some help from others etc i see cheng coming in so go ahead check can you hear me okay yes okay perfect so no comments just thank you thank you for the work we we do really think the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "segment and as a bi-directional past drafts are ready for the working rascal so thank you for the work yep that's it uh cheng regarding the question that we have on the uh just that we have two mechanisms is there any opinion of the authors that yes we need to continue with the both mechanisms in the draft that's the current let's go for both mechanism right now and if someone uh propose some comments on the main list let's discuss it directly okay okay thank you so next one we have uh uh sr policy drafts this one had an update uh this update added i've made an update in the invalidation tlv for traffic steering for a down and an invalid lsp so please review if you have any concerns with this update with pcc sr there was another update and the main technical change was uh there was text added for any cast sid allocation which was missing so i think this is a good uh update that they have done and uh please review uh regarding the multi-path draft there were multiple updates uh main updates were in multipath opposite direction path dlv they also added an implementation status section which lists three existing implementations which is very good to know and the earlier location has also been done for this draft so good progress is being made in the multipath document the other document that we have is the state sync between the pce's uh two updates uh adding implementation status adding manageability consideration and one open issue uh at least from the chairs point of view is this document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "has a section on how primary and secondary pcs are selected uh but and it is done based on priority but how this priority is advertised is currently out of scope of the document so we want to get feedback from the working group that whether it is acceptable uh that yes let that be outside this could be done via configuration or yang and like you know of course in future it can also be done by uh capability like advertisement etc but it's okay to be out of scope of the current document so we want to hear uh inputs from folks especially on that point uh next document we have is optional this is uh like marking objects as optional to process in case of stateful pc and implementation status was added but it currently lists there are no known implementation i wanted to poll the working group that please let us know please let authors know if you are implementing any of the working group documents so that it can be captured in the implementation status section and i i fear that there might be an implementation for this but we don't have the data so please reach out to the working group chairs and authors for this the stateful inter domain saw no change uh between the last uh itf and the sr uh p2mp policy had uh update and it was on mainly editorial changes so far and now we are coming to the i think the final sets uh of the document which were kind of recently adopted we had the l2 flow spec this document was updated they added a manageability consideration and they are trying to uh keep in sync with flow spec v2 work that has been done in idr so that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "good uh we have the document for algorithm said algor algo this was adopted in feb and currently the comments which were received during adoption are still pending so we request authors to make an update i see samuel in the queue please go ahead samuel yeah i just wanted to comment the update for cdw draft i collected the feedback from multiple sources and there were some conflicting opinions so basically i tried to bulk the update in you know answer to so that's that's causing the delay but as as discussed between the authors it uh we will change the strategy and video update we will do partial updates to at least uh updated updates on the comments that you have received during the option and and basically to sim to make progress faster uh perfect uh one suggestion i i would also make is like wherever uh you guys are have not able to make a conclusion you can put an editor's note in the document it would be easier to track for chairs as well as other working group members on where the disagreement is and easy to provide you inputs as well yeah make sense good thanks for starting thank you uh next we have uh path mtu this is sr path empty document when we adopted this document we made a decision that a companion document in spring needs to be produced and authors have produced this they presented this in the spring session today as well and some of the text from the pcep document has now moved to spring and it will now be making progress in the spring document as well so thanks authors for tracking this and closing uh one update that has happened in the document is there is a section which now updates rfc 5440 especially with the handling of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "metric pound uh sp because uh path mq is little different uh the other metrics usually look for maximum here we have to look for minimum so some text change had to be done to allow uh sr path mq to be carried inside a metric object so please review this part and provide comments and the authors also added a section for multipath which is pretty good so thanks for updating the documents and adding more text the ifit document which was i think our latest document that we have adopted it's also on the agenda so no point discussing let's move on to the adoption queue so that option queue is in the wiki uh some of the documents are listed here please give feedback to the chairs if you feel some other documents needs to be put up first give your reasoning and we would of course be open to reshuffling things as and when so please be more vocal reach out to us so that we can help uh make progress in the working group uh pretty soon and with this i think this would be the last slide uh open mic any working group status related things that we want to talk about otherwise we'll move to the first presentation okay thank you so let me sam you yes i mean i'll be giving you slight control you should have it now yeah so thank you then hi old uh i'm samuel from cisco i'll be presenting doubt about piece of extensions for circuit style on behalf of outdoors it was presented on last ipf as well as well just summarize content of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "draft and updates which were done after that develop these extending pieces to satisfy requirements of connection oriented transport services using segment routing policies also called also called circular style as our policies there is second route which was presented in spring working group and which was presented in pc working group in last itef so which is disturbing those requirements like state bandwidth guarantee endpoint protection by hope behavior and how existing features should be used uh existing features defined in existing pset rfcs or drops this drought is covering gaps in pset for two specific requirements from the least which i mentioned uh more specifically path persistency which means also sticking to over the computed part and not modifying it in case of various triggers like topology updates or periodical optimization and this kind of stuff and for buy hope behavior which practically means that computed pub will use ideas and c6 only although i will describe details later so do that introduce new dlv for blocking powder computation or other optimization based on various triggers uh like pc topology or periodic computation and we have received feedback that there is not many use cases for such grammarity so tlv was simplified by removing those flex as a result tlv was also renamed to follow updated content of the plv and moved from lsp object to lspa because we interpreted updated content of the pov as lspr type build or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "behavior which logically belongs into lsprt object there is a recent comment from peru to actually move it back to the lsp object so maybe another discussion will be needed but yeah that's that will be done after uh after this rtf new flags were introduced to cover uh scenarios which are not specific to circuit style policies but which logically belongs to functionality discovery in this draft or b flag for allowing or blocking modification of computed part if original part is already invalidated so the tlv now allows both options stick to completely part even if path is invalid and keep lsp in downstate or allow pad modification if lsp would be down second flag is for controlling it explicit uh explicit request request from operator for updating parties allowed here we are talking about requests coming from pc side for example some sale executed on pc site any normal interface request received on pc site or anything like that one one more additional minor qualification was made in the draft we allowed modification of computed part if actual ads and cs are not changed so for example operator will change manually assigned adsense it to different one uh on same topology link then pc can still compute the part or basically update the path to to new seed which is assigned to same same increasing snc second requirement covered by this graph is clarifying usage of existing gold flag in stabilized messages and introducing new flag for stateful pc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "messages only minor changes were done in india since last itf we generalized definition of state path to make it more future proof for example for cases the new city type will be introduced and which which will not be defined in this draft original definition specified explicitly usage of ibsense assets only for state hopes now we are using them only as an example and we are quite qualifying the pc can use only seats which will be perfect to specific adjacencies and we are explicitly blocking usually of basic basic seats even even if there is just one part between two modes thanks for listening and any comments any questions are welcome we are still discussing backward compatibility handling uh and addition of new couple and potential additional new capabilities to negotiate support for these features and we have also received some feedback after publishing last version of the draft so new changes will be coming soon any questions any comments i see i see adrian at the queue so adrian go ahead hello that's it hello it's adrian um thank you for presenting um some uh just looking at the recompute uh bit of this um and trying to understand and i just re-skimming the draft um it's applying to a delegated uh path yeah so that's a path that's been established in the um by the pcc and then delegated back to the pce and saying okay pce you're now the owner"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "of this but you're not allowed to recompute a path in that case why would you delegate so there are multiple facts as you can see on this slide there is for example for slack which still allows a pc to update the part but only if operator explicitly requesting it from pc side and also there is permanent flag which basically means that pc can still recompute but it will recompute only if original part is invalidated so basically if if uh but if there is better part then pc will not will not be allowed to to send any updates for the part but if pad is invalidated that it can still update the parts to basically fix it to make sure that policy or our speedometer will not be animated or it will not go down right and and you have a i i suppose i could construct use cases but you you've got a um a use case that is actually driving this distinction for you so i mean the main use case which we originally tried to cover by the computation dle was still keeping delegation that the pc can can drive the drive apart so it can still peel down the lsp it can still uh it can still for example uh tear down one candidate part of the policy if it considered that that another candidate part is better for some reason so the intention here was just to make sure that that pc will not change the part it will not change frequently it and to make sure that that the part will not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "be updated in all of the cases but there will be still some exceptions where the update of the part is needed or maybe at least the peer down of the of the lsp can be compelled by wbc okay thanks i hear you i'm not convinced but we can think about it next is andrew and while andrew is walking in this is the second time this comment has come in and if you remember like i think one of the first time when this was presented the same comment was made that why are we delegating when not re-optimization so i think it's best to add some text in the in the document so that this question key not doesn't keeps coming up uh andrew go ahead um yeah i figured i'd just add a bit of a concrete example so you know you've got your pc in the network you've got your lsps you want to establish them you want to establish primary secondary diverse paths delegate to pc pce can do all its computation magic to establish the path and at that moment you don't want to deviate from those specific resources however under certain conditions like for example bandwidth pc is aware of the bandwidth reservations in the network the local node isn't so you might have bfd running on the lsps everything's happy but the pc can detect a use case where well i've got you established on a path i've been instructed to not move you around because traffic fluctuations but i'm allowed to tear down so for example if your primary path is active let's tear down the primary so that we go through the secondary because the secondary slows enough capacity i figured i'd just give a concrete example thanks thank you andrew for a very example are there any more questions one thing which came up during the spring uh presentation as well was i think we need to be a little careful with what content we are putting in the spring document and what is going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "to be in this uh current document is focusing on extensions which is very good but i think even from the spring document things which are very pcb specific where we are talking about how pcc delegates things to pce or more piece of specific things i think could be moved to this document and my suggestion would be to keep spring document as general as possible and if you want to use psup use it as an example but the spring document should be not specific to pce so that in future if somebody wants to do bgp work for this it is pretty straightforward and the document doesn't like you know seem very pce heavy so i see vision is here as well so maybe you or christian can discuss and figure out what's the best way to distribute the text yeah we we can discuss that but basically even original idea was to keep the spring document or keep second round as informational which is describing all the technologies with all the features which needs to be connected together for the for the cs policies and then this drought will basically cover any extensions which are delivered on top of existing droughts or existing implementations uh existing rs so yeah we can discuss that any other separation would make sense but maybe maybe even another development would be needed in such case to basically split the informational part which is videos connecting all the all the features together and and the extensions which are needed um yeah but we can we cannot start the discussion and we can we can try to qualify if there are any arguments against or or for this specific approach which was already taken thank you uh and one last point which which is i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "think the continuation of discussion that we had during the last time i do not have a very strong opinion but i just want the working group to be like you know thinking about this and this was a comment even pawan made during the in the chat in the spring working group where he said that should we think of this as a well-known path profile or a policy in terms of psap or whether we should think of this as a very specific thing called circuit style sr policy or should we think like if use cases like this are gonna keep popping up should we think of defining some well-known path profiles or well-known policies and then using our policy framework as a way to do this or should we do separate tlb separate flag as currently being done in this document so i just want a working group to think about it and currently i think most of the authors and the working group likes what's there in the draft but i would like us to be cognizant that if this is the direction that we are taking it might have an impact for us in future as well so if anybody has any thoughts on this comments on this we have some time we have a light agenda so please come and let's use this time to discuss i see andrew coming in i was just going to mention something that we've tried to do in this document is try to make you know these bit flags reusable in other use cases so while the document is described as circuit style as our policy obviously the overall solution now has been moved to spring um so i think from the pce side you know these flags are not necessarily just specific to circuit styles or policy but it kind of encompasses that whole solution so at the end of the day nothing's stopping somebody from reusing these tlvs and other use cases as well thanks i just wanted to mention that if anybody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "else has a different opinion we are discussing this opinion in the mailing list as well so feel free to express the opinion list at least then we remember correctly your command is is discussed on the mailing list right so yes thank you thank you hi fan i'll pass on control to you okay okay and this is huawei and on behalf of the other closers i would present this pcep extensions to redundancy policy and here's some background of the redundancy protection and redundancy policy and the redemptive protection is a generalized protection mechanism that used in the context of the segment routine paradigm and as shown in this figure and it replicates the packets on the redundancy node and transmits through transmit the copies of the packets over the multiple destroying paths and on the merging node it transmits the first accurate and eliminate the redundant packet um in overall we have four um currently we have four drafts introduced this uh redundancy protection mechanism and the first draft introduced the redundancy seat and redundancies redundancy segment and merging segment in the data plane to specify the the behavior of the replication and illumination and second"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "second draft introduced this redundancy policy in control plane to instruct the multiple fantasy forwarding pass from the controller to the redundancy node and the third draft introduced the btp extensions to advertise the redundancy policy attribute and the last one is these this disrupted the pcb extensions uh actually it includes uh several uh content and first is the is the request first is to request the pass computation and the protection method from pcc to pce and also advertise the redundancy policy attribute from pce to pcc in counterplay and also some background of the redundancy policy it is defined as a variant of the sr policy with minimum changes so it inherits the the main structure and the most of the attributes from from sr policy actually it is enhanced by uh import a new uh a new optional uh flag attribute at the candidate pass yeah they can um to the candid pass and we we think it should be uh applied for for both sr uh mpls and srv6 so i summarized the pcp extensions here um first to firstly and two new tlvs of the request parameters object to support this to support the request of the redundancy uh pass computation and protection method and another utrv to distribute the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "the flag attribute of the redundancy policy from pce to pcc and the first sub tlv of these rp object is called redundancy detection trv and uh actually there are two fields um in this uh two uh two fields in this uh trv the first is the flag that we use eight bit uh bitmap to indicate the the constraint of the past computation and one flag is used um to indicate it is the redundancy computation requirement and the the second is the number is the number two to indicate how many redundancy forwarding pass in pcc requires and this message is and this tlb is carried from uh by the um the request and respond to um between the between the pcc and pce uh the second subtly is called the protection type trv we use to protect we use four bit value to indicate the protection type of the protection type of this past computation because the redundancy protection actually it is a protection mechanism so we think based on the previous um protection mechanisms um we actually introduced a new mechanism for the protection so it might need some um some modification to the to the 2d and to define the protection type so here we introduce a new uh dlv um we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "i also see the there are there is uh there is there are requirements there are there are comments from uh from to roofie on the mainly list and to discuss that if we need to define a new treat or uh we need to do some research uh to the to to backwards compatible um to the existing implementations um i think we will discuss it uh among the coursers but right now we propose a new tsatri to to enhance the protection type uh the last tier we see is this um it is defined it is encoded in the uh in the sr policy association group it is called the the the candidate pass flag tlb um because as we as we just introduced in the redundancy um policy uh to one attribute one optional attribute flag is introduced to the candidate pass so um so in pcp that we introduce a new um kind of past black trv to carry the uh the the flag uh the flag of the of the canteen pass and in the in the in the current uh design of the redundancy policy only one bit of the of the flag is defined uh so that is the the redundancy flag so and similarly here that we use one flag one bit of the flat to differ to indicate the redundancy flag and here is some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "considerations uh so this is a zero zero elevation of the of the draft so we we are we seek for the uh discussions on many lists from working group and we will also keep aligned with progress in spring um the progress of the relentless policy discussion and thank you for listening thank you fan are there any questions uh i have couple uh maybe we can uh discuss uh the first one that i have would be uh the document that we have in the spring about the redundancy protection this one is very srv6 specific so the first thing that we would have to do is since all the other documents are saying that they will work for both sr mpls and srv6 we have to make sure that we have a mechanism for sr mpls for basic redundancy protection said is there any thoughts on this am i missing something is there any discussion in the spring that the pc working group is not aware of so you can maybe enlighten um initially that we would like to to to define this redundancy protection for the sr npr's and srp6 um but later will be this when we discuss with because this uh this redundancy protection is triggered by the that net prey off functions so um but in that net there is already uh rfc discussed the uh the npr's uh data plane um at this the similar functions in ikea state plane so we we didn't think uh we um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "we haven't we haven't dabbing too into this um into the space specifications of the of the npr's data plane so i think it it it is some kind of missing there um but we will i think we'll discuss and find a better way to uh to to fill in the gap here and i i see thank you uh uh in the queue i think yeah yeah thank you uh ericsson i just also wanted to bring up that it's basically coming from that net the computer application elimination functions and maybe a coordination with that net might be good as well that's it thank you i think they have a document in that net is this on the agenda this time the enhanced oh this document is not oh sorry this was only in spring and bgp sorry my back anthony go ahead yeah hi anthony somerset liquid um can you just go back to the tlv slide i think the second one um is there a maps issue because it says reserves 24 bits but the diagram says there's uh the next one um the diagram's saying that there's 28 bits reserved just to knit for the maps oh i think just i think it's a temple sorry so some other points that we also want to discuss something that we started on the mailing list as well which is further discussion on whether we should use rp object or try to put this inside sr policy i think let's continue that discussion and of course with protection you use the wood that this is little different protection than"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "what is already defined in psep so it would be good to tell what do you really mean by that what what is the difference between redundancy protection and maybe the diversity work or protection type that we already have in psep so if you need to define something new just be very clear on how it is different from what is already there and how it will work with what is already defined that if somebody encodes both of these how would how would how would it interact with each other so you need to be more careful uh at the time of introducing especially for the protection okay thank you for uh for the suggestions um yeah we'll have some internal discussions with the coursers and come back with uh uh with the yeah with the answers yeah thank you perfect thank you let me give you slight control you should have enough okay hello everyone uh i would like to do the meditation about pcep extensive state verification for srps on behalf of all authors what's about the latest versions uh we update our draft based on the comments from adobe and join thank you very much and we use reflect instead of attended with like and remove equal one the format of the siero sub object and i'd say the verification process and i use a two 2pd code point for repeat section this page is for motor business uh draft itf's principal road policy describes the state"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "verification build usage uh seed verification is performed when the hard end is explicitly requested to verify state by the controllers while the signaling protocol used and fc8664 specifies extensions to the pcep that allow a stateful pce to compute and initiate t pass as well as a pcc to request a past subject to slaughtering constraints and optimization criteria in isr networks and this draft defines a new flag for indicating the height and is explicitly requested to verify seat by the pce and this is for seed verification flying in this document we defined with like in sr ero subject for indicating the pcc is explicitly requested to verify state by the pc's e and we also defined with like a sro sub object and the format of the sr sub object is the same as that of the sro sub object but without flag as defined in fc86 the reflect has no meaning in the srro and is ignored as we see it and the pce next is the state verification process process i was receiving i i saw yeah i saw v6 yahoo with the flag inside uh sorry this is uh on receiving i saw yao with the reflect inside a pcc must verify seat if a pcc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "uh verification fails forward seat it must report this arrow by including the srp iron code tlv without spiro value state verification fields in the iosp object in the pc report mouse message to the pce and under the uh and the uh under the i uh comments we occur and uh and the ieti one was there was meetings we discussed uh why the uh the policeman of the rebate uh is appropriate pro 88 and this draft aligned with the extension of draft pc e srv6 and dropped bdps are polls so we extend a new flag as a young object and we have accepted all the comments from from the mail list and how updated the draft this draft is very simple but i think it's very useful so we all think our draft is ready for call of a call for adoption so we always request that the tears to consider to call for adopts that's how i think are there any comments samuel go ahead i just wanted to support that adoption basically the drought is introducing or useful stuff which which is already covered in the drought so if there were no further changing of other comments from the working group for any major modifications so um yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "i i just wanted to support it thank you samuel anyone else uh i just wanted to plug in uh this new wiki page that i have created uh it is still work in progress but uh like this document was something that got missed uh in pce one fun flag and now we have to update the document to add that flag in psep similarly we have algo confusion so we need to do a little better job with coordinating between our documents so we have started this page that can help i put the link in the chat where we would request the authors when they are working on multiple documents in bgp in spring in it they can update this wiki and we can like you know as a working group track all of this in a much better way so that we can avoid uh these issues like one bit uh not being present in psep etc so let's try to do better job as a working group all of us together i still don't see i still don't see anyone in the queue uh okay working group is there any other business that one somebody would big up you have around three minutes in my clock julian go ahead no nothing too too hard okay folks see you tomorrow yeah thank you everyone talk to you tomorrow thank you bro thank you harry yes thanks for the minutes thank you guys thank you tooth bye um have a nice break"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:28",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
