[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "You're gonna be the Api? Okay. Okay. Several other documents. So That's pretty subtle. I o'clock. And we wanna get a hour session right there? Yeah. We gonna go. Get me to intro you under the intro. Alright. Welcome to suit at One sixteen. Next slide. By Thursday, you've probably seen this a whole lot but it's the note well. It covers your rights, your privileges and your responsibilities? Please make sure you are aware of those before you contribute by speaking at the Mic or sending email to the mail list. Next slide. So please treat each other with respect. And if you wanna attack, somebody's ideas, that's okay, but don't attack the person. Next. So we do need a a note taker We have a someone who said they will watch the ether pad we need somebody to be the primary. Can somebody take notes, please? Hi. This is Ans I can take some notes. Okay. Thank you. Great. Alright. Super."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "Of course, the chat is available through the interface as well. Next slide. So this is the agenda that we sent to the mail list, two pages And are there any agenda batches before we get started? Okay. Sure you're presenting number nine, And, you're presenting number six? And is there somebody that is already on the call that knows they're doing any get the ones on here. We have slides for, I think them, but I have not seen brendan on yet. I can I can do the the model? I think we're gonna do then is ring would you say that again, harness? Oh sorry. I can I can talk about eight as well if necessary? Okay. What I think we'll do though is start with your presentation on for more encryption and but brendan shows up. Okay. Okay. Alright. And you're. Honest do you want us to present here or make your screen. Yeah. If you could load the slides, that would be good. Okay. Good. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "Good morning. At least from my perspective. This is This is the working group document about the encrypted payloads in the institute manifest. There were two updates since the last Meeting you you see all authors brent and rest David and Can. Next slide. Yeah. Then the way in fact, two updates, one because I made an Glitch as I submitted it under the on the submission day So I luckily notice it and fixed it right away. But the biggest change occurred in version then where I swapped out the Hp e Algorithm against see el to him and if ep static version, which is one that is described in the in the course. Of course, alongside I have to do with some res shopping to make the document more readable I hope. If anyone has had a chance already, to that new version is hopefully easier to wheaton ten versions before. So why why was the trade change rate? Unfortunately, as some of you have noticed, those who have also been following the work in the c group. There was a little bit slow progress on Hp t. Actually, last year, we have tremendously slow progress. And is still a number of open issues in do I hope that there will be some completion of to work at some point in time,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "it's many of the other suit documents are actually a closing sort of end of the the life cycles of this speak And leap are ready to leave the working group. Fairly soon or have left them already. So that creates dependencies that decided the Yeah. E d h e s this service this thermostat static mode is specified, as I mentioned down some some application specific descriptions that need to be added, of course, that's relate to the info field have a few slides to illustrate on how it works. Give you a flavor in case you haven't read that part of the cozy specification. Next slide. So this sort of my attempt to visualize this. The green box is unrelated to the encryption of course. This is the classic coast side one. But then the inner boxes represent different layers. And the The blue box is the is the regular c encrypt, which is used to potentially encrypt the payload to multiple recipients could in Some cases supposed be just one. Recipient then the black box is the actual content that we want to encrypt, that could be a firmware where that could be in the feed case that could be personalization data. That could be whatever. That's why we we recorded it. We renamed the document the type of document to very drugs and firmware because they have different cases. In this content is encrypted fifty with content encryption key with the c a key okay And then for the different recipients,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "yeah there's another layer yes I would call it namely the great box shows the recipient structure, which uses aes key. And that key rack is is they have to protect the content encryption key. But in order to include or or to protect that and encrypted that needs to be text this other key encryption key, and that one is produced by the if I'm static if you have exchange. And that's the orange box. So that's that's the the sort of layering in in that kind of simplified fashion. So it's it's always nicer to show the the cozy you know, directly, but unfortunately, becomes a little bit unread because of the size of the fund. So so we can that's the layering. There is also an example in the close the itself. So So it's not something if you read the document the I from the top to the bottom, you you may have somebody cross Okay. But otherwise, there is... Like, from a conceptual point of view, there isn't much change in that sense. Because it's still we are still utilizing a public key trip here. And compared to, like, eight week evening. So So that's not different. Yeah. And the features are also not different. Okay. Next slide? Hope"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "this is just a a fragment of the of the full payload this is the one it was tracking the recipient structure. And sort of the the in the innermost recipient structure. Which shows one of the I would say contentious points to the discussion and a working group on Hp, is the one on how you include the the the key. And here you can sort of clearly say that see that the cozy key structure is just used as is this is the the federal path with the key wave with the curve parameter exit y x probably can be or compass compressed to a un point representation depending on what you are course library prefers. There's also the the Key at the end, which indicates we whereby the center indicates to the recipient, what public key, it used for encryption And this this this optional parameter but. I believe in many cases would be needed because Otherwise, you need to know it from the context But Yeah. In this, in this example, I'll put it there to make it more obvious. The cipher field which is also part of the recipient instruction since this is the In innermost distributed recipient structure, this is empty because the as as shown on the previous slide graphically, the the the result of this, which is the Ec derived symmetric key which is then fed through an H is actually is actually used in the in the layer below. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "I hope I hope this is clear. It's the first presentation, obviously, some details what what is missing to get this sort of out of the door? It's relatively minor. I would argue is namely the description about the info and the e input which is to parameters in in to this to this hold block. building And Yeah. So tools? If if everyone is happy with this approach, then I would be happy to act sort of make an update to the document to those description of those two parameters in not much And and of course, I would also like to give it a try to add it what is to propose it to lawrence library has another method I don't know if he's in the room whether he will freak out if I did him this, but So that's sort to have that implementation experience as well. Okay. Any any reaction to this country the faces is wrong. He is in the room. He's not looking like he needs to go to the mic. Okay. See. Dave paul from tomorrow you wanna make a share comment? I'm sorry, Johannes. Is this issue twelve that's out on the they github have repo? Let me quickly can look at the github. Because I there... I think there's a proposal on that issue that it's already resolved."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "Let me Sorry. But this... I didn't memorize the numbers I can I should I can yeah I I chat? Yeah. I see that if it's related, we'd probably wanna update this issue just to yeah the current state. Yeah. You are. Completely the right that we definitely have to track this No. This is a different one. And actually one that I talked about it at the last Meeting in London this was something Ken and I bounced back and forth because we we wanted to we wanted to make sure that the the the the the way to trigger the encryption and to relate it to a specific component since there maybe multiple components in a suit manifest is as easy as possible. And and actually, I I believe we need to close this one. We did that with the last update already. Good goodbye. Could he kept it that. Is is the intent to use this repo to track the issues on the draft? Yes. That's I I close this one. Yes. So we should probably open another issue then for the current one. Yeah. I would I would do that. I will do that right after the meeting."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Perfect. Thank you. Right. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks for supporting the ground. It. I just want to point out free information for you Johannes. I have an implementation of pretty much this that we may be able to solve massage into some kind of example implementation. Just contact me afterwards and we can figure out what would be a good way to deal with that. That's fantastic. Yeah. That's interesting news. Thanks. Thanks david good to see. And happy to talk to you afterwards. Right? Yes. K. There Any other questions on this graph? It looks like one small bit of work needs to be done to nail down the additional information that goes into the key calibration, and then we'll be ready for last call. Alright. Thomas Let's get that done. Keep working through earlier this week. It was noted the t protocol draft currently me this this one has a neuro neurological reference. But the belief is that it's is possible to convert that text to be an informative reference to just not tie the two together and and hold them up or whatever. So deep is looking at doing that. But if you have comments in that, bring it up to tee, but that's currently the goal. Okay. I think we'll do number nine next. On Mt."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:12",
    "text": "Hello? Yes. I'm going to talk about the Mandatory implementation algorithm for the suit. Yes, please. Just minute. Let me get my send glasses. Just a minute. For those Yes. Let's just outcomes. Yes. I became a call author with Another person, I don't not know how to pronounce from all we've been I think he worked for a semiconductor company. And this happening this happened about three days before draft the submission. I think that was the thirteenth Monday Yes. And what really happened was in the last three days was people were updating the draft and we realized how to describe mandatory algorithm. What we going to use for a suit and eat Cd deal and the deep message we realized that we already have this, I document this on suit working group. So we this... Instead of d duplicating writing the same a similar Cd deal, we thought we're going to use this the existing one. And in that time, that was somewhere from discussion started with the Brandon and the it people in some Friday, Saturday, Sunday And Monday, we decided to decided to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "go to change the key exchange our from hp sdk to Ec to be more reasonable at the time for for making the draft more finishing in a reasonable time. And And yes. Yes, please. Next. Page, please. Yes. This is this is talking about purpose of the... What is suit M algorithm. So it's not meant to be a large computational fast computer or device. It's meant to be a concentrate constraint net device and constraint network. Yes. This next page, please. Mh Proper this is was similar to what Han have said in the his talk just to be before us. So it was Originally was based on key exchange algorithm based on that And also, And the discussion with the tip working group was, we we are going to finalized and we like to go to the working group last soon. And and decided to something it's already in the course in the situation is the Ec So we decided from it's which might take long really don't know how much it's going to take with for hp p we decided to change it to the Ec D. And I'm the person probably may made the full request and change the draft, and that was time on Monday. And I somehow fainted it around eleven o'clock because the submission date was on Tuesday, early morning four o'clock something and was continuing. So I don't think this final"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "full request went into the submission. So maybe on data track, it might have the it it's p e on it, But if you go to the github, it's already replaced with Easy Yes. And next please, please. Mh. Yes. So other specification needs to as suit m t is definitely it's protocol specification. And also suit Is depends on other a which is C m internal envelope cd. And Right now, we need to still do bit of a tweak the Cd syntax right now. Yes. Next page, please. That's the last one. Yes. I... Yeah. That's it. Or name with Ti. So Day. Looking at what just to answer your question, what's actually in the posted draft is ec c d h with Est two eighty six and Ed gsa. But h e with Hs Lms. That's some... What's changed in the github. So it's intent as Cc h with all of those. Yes. Okay. So just the last one this is it's saying when of the other ones were changed to. Yes. Alright. Any questions? Alright. What's is as chair, I would love to start a working group request call as soon as the last piece here was fixed up. Because this document is holding up the t protocol which is also wanting to go to working your request call, would be nice to be able to progress them together. Can we can we get this updated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "this week, and then we can yes started working group goodbye on next week. Yeah. We need I will talk to Brandon? Yes. Okay. Great. Thank you. We've not heard any other remaining comments or issues of this document other than the ones that the occurred just presented. Alright. Han, Can we go to number eight? Okay. This is this is the my document It was an update made to this one, Brent did that work in it was done in response to some discussions about how the actual workflow happens. So if you go to the next slide You see that changes I can briefly summarize the the workflow again that is now in in the latest document version, it's it's a fairly simple document on. And So so I think that's that's the... That's the main so what you add, but the idea is in And I think that can be quite a a powerful mechanism. So the concept is that if you start off with that the device on onboarding And of course, there are number of different onboarding mechanisms from the final To whatever your favorite mechanism is. And they... Now nowadays they also provide station"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "alongside that process. And this as part of this station the manifest is is reported to the to the to the math manager. And the manifest maybe sent what maybe as as a whole what maybe just this may be severed as the as the manifest document says so strict with because of size reasons But the math manager has the possibility to actually fetch the complete bundle And I it has then also possibility to learn on what software is actually supposed to to run the device And so of course, he can verify the manifest this one. Once it has it. Of course, every time d the device reboots and and we does that at the stage you can didn't report that information as well. So that's... I I think that's the create the main difference what sort of other techniques in for map distributions have been provided is it's this one. Where the information is is carried along the the suit manifest rather and for example, sending the data in let's it's sending it they might file over Dhcp or some other some other mechanism. So it's definitely a stronger technique. And also The the person creating the file is namely the firmware developer. Is probably in a good position our capability to right at least know what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "communication possibilities, their device has based on the software it has written. So so providing the same set of information from the same source appears to be an attractive approach. So this is what the the document says and it It's it has an extension to to suit, of course to have that marked information or that url included but it's a it's a single it's a single entry. So that keeps the argument fairly minimalistic in accents. So it's a short it's a short party and and just scaling on how many pictures like would say maybe pen so. I don't see your page fund. But Yeah. It's So that's why print and I believe that this should really be ready for working blast. Okay. I I know preparation for today. I read the document. And I didn't see any problems. Those anyone have any concerns with the with this document? Or does that anyone have any reason why it should not go to working group last call. Okay. Just making comment here. We have a bunch of documents that we hope are all ready to go to working a last call. This is the one that the protocol does not depend on. And so if we had to stagger them in some way to not do all the work your problems at the last at the at the same time. Than this one maybe the tail end even if I think it's ready for working request calls. That that makes complete sense. Let's see which ones we can get. Right? So Ken or are you in the room? We're we're looking at trust domains."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "Ken are you able to to present on this because Brendan has not showed up. Awesome. What Alright. Brendan your up for trust demands. make. I Brandon, do you have audio and do you want slide control? It says brandon offline. This is speaking for Brent. He is in a difficult internet excess situation. And might have unstable intended. Yes. That's why I highlighted that I can do Yeah. He did let us know that but he was at a spotty network area. Yeah. So Okay. So why don't we do? Why don't we jump to suit report while while he tries to find the spot where he can get better than that super report. And this is another one that deep depends on. In case somebody's keeping track of which ones of the dependencies, but... I know somebody is. At least one of the chairs is No it's on. Was this off all that time? That could be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "Okay. Sorry. Remote attendees. It's no. Hi. I'm not Brandon. I am Hank. This is report on Depart. Next slide, please. I no Brandon is in the queue. Brent do you have a question? The question is whether my do you at work? And it seems like it does now. Okay. Good. Yeah. Sure. Do you wanna take over? I you to flow for you. If you'd like. Okay. Yeah. I'm happy to I'm happy to take over if that's if that's easier. I realized I wrote you in a little bit last moment there So I'm alright. Since we were just starting suit report, you rather do this or trust the main first? I'm happy either way. Alright. Two reports slides are up doing. Alright. So we've there's a couple of things that are coming report Now specifically, the the two key things from the last meeting where that there was a question about Ion considerations. And a question about expanding security considerations particularly around the topic of encryption of the suit reports. So that's been I've also added a proposal for how we're going to enter work with rats and that consists of two components The first is a c content type. And the second is a proposal exactly how we embed in eat. Next slide, please. So first off, the c op cancel type I think that this is actually useful regardless of whether or not we have an eat token involved in the brings us. So the first part of course is that we're gonna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "manifest processor to some kind of math system. And that's probably going to be done via or another similar communication medium. So that being the case, we probably need a content type. To to And the second point is that if it's going to be inside an eat to Well, in that case, we're hopefully going to be able to use that content type to construct the right claim in. So that's I think on that basis, it makes sense to have a content type for this good the document. Please. So my proposal for what we do with the cert report in ed. Is that we embed it in a me object. Me object has a a definition seems compatible with what we wanna and it from the Cd, it looks appropriate as well. And since it's you know, it's described as a a software measurement and cert reports are effectively a software measurement. So I think this makes a lot of sense. Now I did get a question about whether I've reached at this big thing to do. And to be fair, I haven't... I I read the a suit. I read the to eat description and it looked right to me. So I get skim feedback we So if there's any feedback on that that would be good. And and not on to the next slide? Yeah in the keep case I don't think T has a strong opinion here just because in the case the suit reports are not embedded inside the eat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "they're sent in parallel to it, and that's because the t protocol can be used with or without attest station and so you can't than to be inside eat, so there's a field to put them alongside and because it's alongside, then you don't have to put them in you got an alternative channel that goes in this case to the relying party, which is what which is Tam, which is what's trying to consume them. So that's why don't have it opinion on this one. Okay. So no from opinion from a suit or from on the use of suit reports. Think. Yeah. You cannot see this, but I'm looking at Lawrence and And I'm when ask, are you okay with this? He's nodding. Okay. Okay. I'm gonna qualify or qualify that as having talked to the Skin group Maybe that's that's over selling it a little bit. But anyway, I I still think this makes sense. So let's go into the next slide, please. In the ion considerations, I've started filling that out. The things that are going into I am considerations are a sea tag and collab content type for both the suit report and the suit reference, but also what I'm looking for is it a new eight four on the page for capability report extension which are something that may come up in the future if people extend the suit manifest. And this is to extend the the capability reports that We're in interviewed t f one fifteen. That was something that has been suit hadn't been addressed up to that point. It seems to make sense to bundle that together with with the report because they're both reporting related tasks, So putting capability reports and other made sense to me. So I've asked for a page"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "ricky as well. Next slide, please? Or I mean, table not page. Alright. So on security So the rest the the more contentious part of this. And they're overall considerations. The first is that suit reports have to be authenticated. If they're not authenticated in some way, they don't actually mean anything. You might be able to use them for debugging, but if you don't know that you're getting the date that sent back then I'm good r to you. May need to be confidentiality protected there are questions about exactly what kind of personal information could be exposed by funding a suit report idea here, some circumstances this in some applications we may need to encrypt suit reports for confidentiality reasons and where that's necessary there's some guidance provided. So essentially, the guidance is either we need to provide secure transport, or we need a cozy message. Now there is a corner case here that we haven't talked about much. And the corner case is where the suit report is being assumed by some entity other than And in that scenario, the suit report is going to be something that the ver doesn't need to see. And if the suit report is une within an encrypted eat token then what we're doing is exposing private in from our run. Privileged information two the ver that they don't actually need. So by the principle of least privilege, we should at least consider the possibility that there are use cases where a suit report needs to be encrypted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "even when it's been an that is also encrypted. And I think that is the end of the security considerations and the end of what I have to say about your reports for now. Okay. So Brandon now that the the coordination has just occurred in the room here. How long it gonna take to get a document that's ready for working group last call? Well, I think the big question question is whether the those those diana considerations and the security our out adequately. I I think that we're pretty close. Suspect that the ion considerations need a little bit of tweaking because frankly, I'm just not used to doing them yet. Think Dave was in the queue for us to help. Yes. Absolutely. Including one of my c authors. So what you presented it looks fine, but I do have a whether at additional changes needed do a different document here. And here I'm looking at the may need to be confidentiality protected. If we say that, yeah. Presumably, we wanna say K. with which algorithms I observed that the Mt api document has called algorithms recipients of software update for the of things manifests. So other words right now it's above Yes. Manifest processor. This is encryption in the opposite direction. And so my question is, because we had this conversation a deep working group that says, we just use the same algorithm unless somebody tells us, oh, no. Something is highly asymmetric. Right? Being encrypt versus a decrypt. That's the only case that I can think of is if you have a particular algorithm that you want to be different. Otherwise, if we can... The tape working group would love to just refer to suit Mt api for both directions and suit Mt is a title is currently scoped only one direction, and my question is,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "if this is correct, then can we change the title of the Api document? The there is an issue with that. The specific issue is signing with Hs. Up until we get to that point, it's absolutely fine. But when we're asking devices to sign and the suit Mt says Hs Lms. Then the reverse direction for suit reports starts to become a problem. So I guess the the question... Remember, the first thing was, they must be authenticated. So if that authentication is done with Hs Lms, and then that is gonna be a hard cell. So I... I'm happy to happily take feedback from the room on how to handle that properly. But my my initial instinct is that the reason that suit mt is the way it is is because it is asymmetric problem and going in the opposite direction, we have a different set of considerations. I agree with your assessment, but I think we can put some small wording in the document so that Ec a is good for the other direction. I was actually thinking that it might make more sense to use cozy Mac or an Ae ad. And using and use Ec d key. Oh, ec c d h. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. The the certificate out different, but it would work. that way you. Yeah. Another comment is that I just figured do you agree that the Nt I document is the right place to cover the mandatory implement in the processor to, you know, outside direction, regardless of what the content is, which we can work out or whatever. Because if so, this affects the Api last call, but the document actually depends on both them. So it doesn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "error. Right? The pin is the same regardless of which document. So. Yes. So the risk here is that Mt I means Mt I. Right? And And when this in its security considerations gives you two choices. And one of them is to use an existing secure transport that you've got. Rather than necessarily wrapping in a cozy message. Than putting the mandatory to implement down where you're not actually using a cozy mess and you're using that secure transport. We've got situations like that already, like, when you're not using encryption, but encryption is specified in the Mt And I guess there's a question as to whether we're going to overs specify this. Okay. Hank. My comment relates to that. Secure transport and to convey a Uc have similarities here. And if referring to the security considerations in Uc set. That should be checked. I think the asymmetrical asymmetric authentication problem with a secure transport exists here also. I do not know if it's really relevant. Also that must be checked. We were... That is I answer to the question how long does this take? Because I think security consideration is basically the only thing that has check I not I think it's fine. Okay. So we know check whether Uc has and overlap with security considerations. No. Johannes you still you?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "Yes. I was trying to summarize what risk brand and I wasn't able to capture that Is the risk that is too much encryption. Is that the risk? No. The risk is that we overs specify, and we you know, mandate that there has to be a particular encryption algorithm used and there isn't an encryption. You know, there isn't any encryption for that. Guess like I said before, we already have that scenario. So it's probably not our actually a problem. I guess we just need to specify that when when a suit report is being sent over cure board it's not mandatory to implement those algorithms because it's already being handled in a different way. I think take your point, Dave. I guess this probably does need some explanatory text in the suit Mt document I I don't think that that's gonna have to be huge. I think there is only I'm only aware of one edge case. And and the edge case being the Hs Lms there is an open question for me as to whether we should be doing Ec h with Mac or whether we should be going. Yeah. I mean, that that provides give us repeat might be a concern So that might not be the right answer. Maybe we should just stick with Ec So I think that's that's the have this student I. On that... But I think it's gonna be a largely a straightforward exercise to do that. I I don't think it's gonna take long. And just ignore the comments, we can go on of the next draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:05",
    "text": "Is it panel. Good Brendan. Somebody else between customers? Yeah. I'm happy to do this. I'm also happy if Ken wants to present So I'll I'll wait for a moment. And if if Ken doesn't jump on, then I'll go ahead. Okay. I'll go ahead. Next slide, please. Was on his way up. Oh was that just way up. It's saying go ahead. Where do you says you do it. It's Okay. Okay. I'll do unless, you know, it's always better for someone in the room to present if they can, but if if Ken wants me to do it I'm happy to do it. Do it. Alright. Here we go. Next slide, please. Minutes So again, the summary is pretty straight forward, we've added an explicit check for dependency integrity added a self Id. A terrible name, but it's it's not document. That's just my attempt to explain what it is. And we've fixed the dependency resolution sequence key. Next slide, please. So the in the previous version of this draft, the manifest processor needed to keep track of which component was in manifest"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "and which was a firmware image or configuration or what have you? And choose how to process and integrity based on that. And that that was a little bit complicated. And So this changes it and requires the manifest itself to specify what kind of validating. And this is just because to validate a. You have to that sure and you've got to pick out the the digest and then digest and manifest component itself, not the whole envelope. So if what you've got here is manifest envelope in your image and you wanna verify that because it's a integrated dependency, for example, then you need a way to do that without necessarily having to have the manifest processor keep all that log for choosing internally. So the this is the technique for doing that. Now we just divide it into two separate commands and that should simplify the logic for the manifest processor a bit. And this was based on feedback. That came from the hack and yeah I think the hackers on it one fifteen was was where the came and was raised as an issue. So we've added that in. Next slide, please? So this this one I've called a self reference component Id in this slide not what it's called in the document in the document. It's called the manifest component Id. The idea behind us, is that and when the manifest was originally created, there was this ingrained assumption that the root manifest was going to be the first thing received and that a device would know exactly where to put that because it knew that it was the root manifest. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "that's fine as far as it goes. It doesn't deal well with systems that have multiple independent root manifests. And that's gonna being issue in and in a variety of other scenarios, where you have independent being installed. So the idea here is to provide a place that the system should know to be able to use to store the manifest that it receives that it does And so that's the idea here. We've got this this component Id that allows the receiving system to store the manifest to a particular location without having to guess or know in advance what that lotion is. Now there's obviously a question that stems from this. Which is if my dependency contains one of these, what happens how how do we decide between what the dependency says it should be stored at and what the dependent says it should be stored out. And the answer here is that the dependent gets to choose where its dependencies are stored. And Obviously, this raises some questions about malicious dependence. And so far the best answer I've got to that is that particular storage locations component Ids can have permissions associated with the much like a file system. And except instead of having a user that gets to choose for to store things, it's the person or the end the manifest that gets to decide what permissions that manifest has. So this allows us to control what gets to be stored where. And that's the part of it that's gonna have to handle this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "overriding or or defend against malicious overriding. It's possible that we need to add a bit in security considerations to explain that. But I think there's already a bit of a description of it in the component Id section. Next slide, please? Oh, no. That's it. That's that's the last one. So same question as the last argument. Do you think this one will be ready for working group last call. Well, I'd appreciate another look over it. Like I said, it might need a a small update to security considerations, but otherwise, I think it's done. So a month Can we get any reviewers? And see what they say. then? Well, that's exactly what I'm Okay. West calls what to first soon as you think credit that that has been with this group, the thing that is worked most. Yep. I I think it's pretty much done. Okay. Go ahead On. Yeah. I just I'm it's probably a question to Ken I was wondering what the status is on on the implementation side because there's also this dependency to deepen and Ken has been working on on That code. He's coming to the mic. In in the Hacks for the... We had provided peep deep demo, but it also food demo three. And with this self reference component Id, so in the tea protocol that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the agent request a manifest with this component Id. So we so I I'm implemented device agent request to the tam server, the this component Id and get the component and then that stores it in the fire system. So it works. Yeah. It's fine. And I noticed that we need... We need another parameters. So before running the component, So the binary should be should have the the the executable bit and the in the file in the fire system, So we need another mechanism like group, user that owned the component. And also, there need to be some attributes. That executable write and readable for for a user or group So... And so so we need some yeah parameters. Like that. Yeah. I smart you. You saw your email. You may want to repo that also on the mailing list. I think that's that's obviously a good observation Okay. I'll do that. My question on that. It's whether it belongs in the multiple trust domains or whether it belongs in update management. To me, it looks like an update management operation rather than a try domain operation. I yeah. Anyway, I post a mail math Okay. let's discuss. Okay. Sounds good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:09",
    "text": "Okay. Next slide, then we're going but two talk of about we were just talking about, which is the update management This one's gonna be very short. Next slide, please. So just a reminder it's a set of commands and parameters that are needed for some update management scenarios. It's almost certainly incomplete. Hey, Look, I just suggest to do things that we can add to it. It's fine, I think if it's incomplete because the whole point of this is that new ends can be added. By registering them as extensions as needed. So my big question is are we done? Well the I guess. From the previous comment is maybe not. Next slide, please. So just a reminder of what's in there currently, there's you work condition, well these are all conditions except for the last one. So you've got used before checking if an image fails to match a specified image battery, check for update authorization and a loose version match, and then, of course, the wait for event command. So... But we could do that is do permission and ownership management that that Ken was mentioning that to me, that would fit well in this document as opposed to the trust domains document. But I also appreciate that the trust domain doc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "is probably closer to last call than this one is and that those might be useful to have sooner rather than later. And that's all I have for this one. So based on that discussion we just had at the end of the previous presentation do you think that should happen first or do you think we should last call this first? I'm open to suggestions. I would be happy to put the commands that Ken has mentioned into this one and then send it off for last call. I would be completely happy with that. If we're going to put them india in the custom document, then I guess, then this... In my opinion this could go to last call immediately. What does the author prefer? No what does the author prefer? I'd prefer to keep like with light. So I would preferred to put the management commands here. And the reason for this is simply that they don't look to me that the new ones are proposed like they are specific to a trust domain scenario. They look like generic management commands. So I would rather put them here, but not stan. Yeah. So that... That's my preference. Okay. Then then what I'm hearing is we should working group last call trust domains while you make the updates to this one, then we can do this one Is did I hear it right? Yes. Alright. Then that's what we'll do. Alright. Sounds good. That matches what what team needs because they need trust domain. Yeah. I'm just trying to keep track, maybe other us you've the same thing. Right? So I'm just gonna summarize"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "what I have and press, please correct me if I'm drunk it. Ones the t depends on, there's tree norma dependencies and one informative. And so it depends on trust domains, which we said we can start your last call now. It depends informative on for encryption but it's only informative. So doesn't care whether that's now or later. Sooner bit better, but it depends on suit reports. Which we had some discussion about and that's right to add about the Nt I my expectation is we probably want an update to point to the new Api document And so super reports I would want grab the address is the the the what algorithms to point the Nt I. And we could potentially start working class call after we see that. And an Mt, we just said it need some updates to do with the other correction. And so hopefully, reports Api would be simultaneously updated to match that and we could working in group call at the same time. Those the ones that boutique depends on. The ones that does not depend on is update management. Which I think we just said to have another rev to at the commands. As well as. Yes. Mud, just ready anytime. We could started a working group last call time that the share is choose to. Am I missing anything? Exactly what I got. Then take too. Right. In fact, you can probably send that to the group as a as a plan. Yeah. We didn't capture that in the net so we'd be good. Have. Exactly. So it's for for the mid minutes, so we have deep depending on trust domains, firmware encryption, suit reports and Mp api, But you want to start the booking group last called with trust domains first, because there's no known changes to that one. It's ready right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "other ones all had something that we talked about here that we wanna see the next version of and then we'll working class call that Right. And honest, you have to update the firmware encryption as well. for the traditional info. Yep Okay. That was the last presentation is or any other business. Promises too. That is the. Sir. So just like the question was for Ken on the one document out of the other ones that we're working with place colleen can somebody summarized which of the documents are ones that were implemented and the Hack right? The suit demo, how many of these different documents part of that demo. Can we just en out of these ones we talked about today? Which ones are part of the demo one which ones were were not, Or at least which ones were part of the demo So we know manifest, which that one's already. Which other ones were product of Demo? I guess it's a question for Ken, probably. If you want us to call them out, you say through. Right. I've tested it off. I've tested in the Hacks the suit, of course my manifest and also multiple trust domains. Because it is its self component It. And but I've never tried that dependency So We yeah I have to do that. In one month. I think one month. You said trust domains, yes. Yes. Update management? No. No. Okay. Yep. Firmware encryption. No. No. Okay. Suit reports No. No. No. Mud, I think no one that one, and then Mt indirectly yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "Yeah. Pro so because just first it. It part... I've never used... Is a I specifies multiple profiles right? You had yes. One profile, not the other ones. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And Dave Brown said he did firmware. Okay. Eventually want to collect this and I'm hoping the note takers can put this down because at at some point, we'll get to a need for a shepherd right up then that's one of the questions in the shepherd right up is which ones are actually. So just checking Now And then maybe next I, if we have, like, working last call results to go over, then if we can have any, like, hack found reports sort of implementation side stuff just to help in the shepherd report. Right. If these updates can be made quickly there'll be very little to do it the next meeting. Yeah. I was I was wondering how much work is actually needed to also test the the encryption functionality because we have at the packet on the last one actually for some time we have the functionality in for example, the Aes key route, which we could test on fifty with the many manifest I I wonder whether it is really much missing over but it's just I'm sticking it together and then trying it out. Well, that's essentially what David Brown said he'd already done. David here. Yeah. To coming fast. Go ahead, David."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "Your David Brown. I I will talk with with Han in in more detail about that. But I mean, basically, I have an implementation of using C with Ec h and Aes key wrap. To to protect a payload. It was developed for a different application, but it's pretty much the same data, so it should be easy to massage into the into what we need for this. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Yep. And and sorry, Johannes, left the room he won't answer about Cozy. No. No problem. But I think I will also get together with can after this meeting and try to figure out whether there's anything specifically that has to be done to enable the encryption support in his Late issued suit library. Okay, Or is there any other business? I'm sorry. Yeah. I make... Make you waiting on time, but take me give me a time to do it. Any other issues here comments before we close the meeting? Alright. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:33",
    "text": "I past a couple implementation. Not too bad I"
  }
]
