[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:14",
    "text": "Alright. I think we can go ahead and get started. I'm sure my co AD will be here in a moment. Welcome to the very last TSB area meeting for all time. I wish we had t shirts that we don't. Perhaps Lucas can make us hats or something if you were here. Welcome. This is the IETF note well. You've no doubt seen this many times. If you have not, please take a look at it and understand what you agreeing to by sitting in room or tuning into this on Mid echo. K. This is how to work all the meeting tools I think, again, by now, you're probably familiar with all this. Please do, scan a QR code to sign a blue sheet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "We don't actually probably need to know how many people people were here for room request reasons because will never again be a TSB area. However, this does provide a useful alibi for any crimes that will be committed in the next hour. Okay. More how tos, more if you're having technical problems, where to go, of course, you can see the agenda for the IATF 118 meeting and all this good stuff going on in the transport area. Here's, today's agenda. Okay. The session is being recorded as you probably know. We'd already talked about the blue sheets. Jonathan Morton, who is remote, has graciously agreed to be one of the scribes, this is the part of the meeting where I go quiet and my foot until someone agrees to be a secondary scribe to help out and be here on the premises. Do I have a volunteer? Thank you. What's your name, sir? I didn't hear that. That's okay. Alright. Well, thank you, sir. And we will, proceed that way. And, if, of course, if there are any issues or confusion you have, unlimited, authorization to jump the queue and and ask for, describe clarification. Okay. With that done, this is the agenda. We're gonna do our normal of status slides, which should not take very long. And then, I've most of you are probably aware that this is the last TSB area meeting because we are and and being subsumed into the new area. One of the So the my term is up in March, and so the 2 Witt ADs will be Zayed, who you presumably know. And Francesca Palombini, who is currently an RAD and is coming along with a lot of the HTTP based working groups. And so I've asked"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "Francesca to come give us a very brief elevator pitch about the the working groups are coming into the area with us. So for those of you who might not be where they get a sense of what's going on and what's cool and what's interesting. And then we will have the normal open mic. Now this adds up to 40 minutes, so we have some we have some Flexibility here, but, you know, certainly, you can bring up any issues for transport ADs, the future with ADs, or really anything else going on in the area. Feel free to raise whatever issues you would like. Within reason. Okay. Here is the update on our current working groups. I announced on the list, on the auto list, a month or 2 ago that I'm closing Alto. There are currently 2 the last 2 deliverables are in the, are in ISG review right now. And once those issues are resolved, we pass RC editor queue, I will press the button and close that working group. There's been a see Mohammed Bucadair and and Xin Wu for chairing and bringing that working group to a successful conclusion. Modulo, the the review work is still Let's see. IPPM is part of the, as part of the transition is going to move to ops, some, like, slightly before I TF1 Nineteen, I will remain the responsible AB, until the handover unless I unless there's some sort of side deal work between me and the current ops AD or the future ops AD. But the current plan is to do it during have the odd response way each of transitioned during the meeting. Okay. Mask is going to have a small recharter. They recently adopted I shouldn't say adopted, but announced an intent. They have consensus to attempt to adopt a connect ethernet draft. So we are doing a small edit to the charter to run that by the broader community and as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "assuming no strenuous objections will add to the charter, then they can formally adopt the work and proceed. would also like to thank Chris Wood for his work I cherry mask from the beginning. He is stepping down at the conclusion of this meeting. And Dennis Jackson, has a great agreed to begin sharing. So and and Chris is going to miss Friday's session. So Dennis and, of course, Eric will be up there on Friday morning. Please welcome Dennis to, the community when he when you see them. And then we've had a I forgot to write it down on the slide, but there are also 2 other minor recharters happening. For TSPM and TSPWG. TSPM is the charter is being revised to, to reflect the fact that CCWG exists. And so TPM is not sort of the default venue for just control work anymore. Although in under certain circumstances, it might take that work on, and and, that will be going to the ISG, this month. TSV WG, is not the transport area working group anymore because is no transport area. We're keeping the acronym to save everyone a whole lot of trouble. Is now that transport and services working group, its technical scope will remain exactly the same it is not like a area wide thing. It is just the sort of transport layer topics. Only, that don't fit in some other working group and that charting process will also conclude in or excuse me, that that ISG review process will begin this month and conclude probably sometime in December. Any comments or questions about these updates Okay. Okay. We published a whole bunch of RSCs since the last meeting. You can see them listed there. From a variety of working groups. Cubic is now standard. 18 years after it went into the latest colonels, the default. So yay for catching up the paperwork."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "Not one thing entered the RC editor queue. Although there's probably about 10 to 12 documents that are sitting within ADs or somewhere in the process reentering the RC editor queue, so I would expect a big surge before the end of the year. Those sorts of documents. So good work. Congratulations to all our new IETF RFC authors, And finally, as always, we are, this is the pitch for the TSB area review team, which, we will try to keep probably the same acronym, but we might, mess with the name since again, there's no area, but this is this is functionally unchanged until further notice unless something dramatic changes, there will continue to be a team that retains competency with transport topics that will review documents in IETF last call. Potentially early when requested, with a lens of those transport issues, so this is continuing to happen. Thank you, Vidi, for joining the the review team about a month ago. And what that little number in parentheses is how many documents reviewers reviewed since IETF117. So I would encourage those you interested in these trans knowledgeable at these transport topics and interested in kind of the broader work on the ITS. Be interested in being in a d one day. Or even a chair one day to consider rejoining the TSB art team. It's it's not an enormous amount of work. As you can see, it's about one draft per quarter. If less than a draft per quarter. And you get a dinner out of it, typically, at IETF meetings. So that's cool. So, not going away. Please continue joining, and you can see Magnus who most of you many know, or you can contact the ADs, you know, how to get a hold of us. If you are interested clearly not, saw heads being ran over, but that's okay. I don't think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "would object to anything unsaid, but I guess we'll never know. And that is the last slide of that I'd like to invite Francesca now to talk a little bit about some of our new sister working group and wit. Just, did that work? Which is no, that didn't work. Oh, I see what happened. Okay. One second. Do have to select it. Okay. Let's see. That's the one we want. Alright. Oh, okay. What happens. On maybe I need to unshare. You know, Oh, there it is. Oh, there it is. Oh, there it is. Oh, there it is. Oh, there it is. Oh, there it is. Nope. Okay. I'm just gonna do this. So you're gonna Yeah. I'm running. That's fine. Yeah. Hi, everybody. I'm Francesca. I think most of you have met me already, but hello. I'm currently one of the 2 art AD and I will soon become one of the weak eighties. So what does width stand for? Web and internet transport. Next slide. So in case you missed it, what's happening? Part of transport and part of art will soon merge into a new area called web and internet transport. So, right now, art is very, very big. We have a bunch of topic topics. Some are security related some are, more web related and then other stuff like mail and call the codex and all of that stuff. And also in transport, you have some working group that are a bit more cross area, like, more ops and int related. And so the ISG has proposed and has the community and gotten feedback and then decide to do this sort of restructuring. So some of the artworking groups. That are security security related will go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "back to art. And then, the the art working will stay in art. So art will still exist. And then, transport and art will merge into width. Or some of the art will merge you to it. And then you will also lose some working groups to ops and int. And the timeline is by IETF 119. There will probably be some transition period. So this is, the exact list of working groups that will be part of wit so it's, in green or italic, the art ones and then red or, old in, from transport. So from, art, we have ABT core, CDNI, core, HTTP API, HTTP biz, mockrTCweb, webtrains and wish. And then we have, those working groups that leave the area are Alton and IPPM to go to ops DTN goes to int, scheme, progress, and Utah goes to sec. Yeah, the announcement is in the slides if you wanna go and look at it. So just I will go through, in this list, the working groups there are from art that will go to wit. So I'm also wanted to say that this is gonna be like a very brief overview of each working group. I'm not gonna detail. It's just to give you some sort of hint of what's happening, and I was to, like, bring some interesting topics or examples of the work that is going on in each working group. So we start with ABC Core. This is not one of my working groups. Plays one of Murray's that we're the picking over. So AVT usually, sorry, AVT originally was working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "group that defined the RTP real time transport protocol. That was published in 1996 and is real time transmission audio video over unicast and multicast UDP IP. So, it's designed or to be is designed to carry a multi multitude or multimedia formats, and also permits the development on new formats without providing the standards, and that's basically what ABT core now does. So it's RTP maintenance. And examples of current work is a definition of RTP payload format for, skip codec a frame, visual volumetric video based coding, etcetera. And it also has, an item at the moment that is working group, document of RTP over quick. It's sort of Yep. Next, we have CDNI, content delivery network, interconnection, You have their, figure of the framework, so the goal is to inter interconnect independent CDNIs and deliver content from, CSPs through these multiple CDNs. To end users. This is a collaboration with the streaming video to technology alliance as VTA, and we'll probably, go through recharter soon to take on more work. But, yeah, what it does is basically that box in the middle there between CDNs, where do they find interfaces between different CDN CTNs, So that's CI. It's a contrary interface logging interface. Data interface, etcetera. And, yeah, Then we have Core. Core is, stands for constrained restful environments. So, corporates a framework for resource oriented applications intended The first thing core did was to define the co op protocol constrained application protocol, which is RFC 7252."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Which is designed for machine to machine applications. And it has, a rest. So request response interaction model. Includes key concepts of the web such as URI and, media types. And also has multicast support, very low overhead, and its simplicity. So it's aimed at constraints environments. And today, core is continuing, up maintenance and extensions. So it does things like group communication, pops up over co op, ENS over co op, co op performance measurement, which was, one of the topics that was cross area with IPPM, and security for co op. So we have a lot of work in that. Another working group HTTP API, which is building blocks for http APIs, which does basically extensions, body format, or new message body formats and BCPs that relate to HTTP APIs. And I just took, 2, examples of of the work right now. There more than this in the working group But for example, we have, proposal for an API catalog which would define a well known UI to help discovery of APIs. And another proposal is this link in So, which is a mechanism for annotating web links HTTP's resources with information that otherwise might be discovered by interacting with them. So which methods are supported by resource. We what authentication is needed, etcetera. You can want might want to get hints about this sort of stuff before having to interact with the resource. The next one is big one. I think I don't need to talk too much about this because it's HTTP, or HTTP based working group, which, does HTTP stuff. So one day it's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "the core specification for HTTP and also generic extensions to it they maintain developing extensions for HEP3 as necessary as well. And there is an extension, listing for at least self current work. If you wanna go and and take a more detailed look. There is people in the room as well that can answer more questions. Thing for mock. So media, real quick, I'm sure you're all aware. It was a fairly new working group that has the both, at the first of all, at the ATF 113, So the goal was to develop a simple, low latency media solution for just and distribution of medium. And the use cases include live streaming, gaming, media conferencing, And so the goal is that media will be mapped onto underlying quick mechanisms and can be used over quick or what transport. So this is the link with transport and Yeah. At the moment, they have 2 items they're working on, which is media over quick transport and the use cases and requirements. Another working group RTC web, real time communication and web browser. This is, first defined the WebRTC. So when this working group was created initially, define this WebRTC protocol suite which is aimed at real time multimedia exchange between browsers. And between browsers and other entities. And there is a link to the overview. Document for WebRTC. But they realized that one of the document that was published by this original working group include the contradiction that they need to be fixed. So this working group has risking to fix that, bug. And they have the document in North 48, and the working group will conclude once that done. That's possible. It will be done before. Next IETF, but I included it here for your information. Then we have web trans,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "web transport working group. We have the chair right in the front row. If you have question. But, basically, we have the web the w three c web incubation community group, which is developing web transport API. And, the IETF Working Group works on the protocol development to send data to receive data from servers. That is related to this web transport API. So they are working on the protocol framework requirement and then web transport over HTTP 3 and HTTP 2. And finally, last working group, WebRTC ingest signaling over HTTPS or which which is also, starting and rechartering. And, the goal is to define a specification for htps based signaling protocol to establish 1 way WebRTC. Based audiovisual sessions. And, yeah, that their one document, which is width, has been developed and has currently passed the idea of last sort of very close to finishing their work who will take on new work. And I think that was it. Thank you, Francheska. It's so hard to get these sorts that shots of what's going on in the IETF. And, you know, so I think I'm certainly not the only one in this community has benefited from that. Does anyone have any questions or comments for Francesca? Thank much. you very Thank you so I had is there anything, that was not in the slides that you desperately wanted to share community since you were held up I'm desperate. Yeah. Was desperate to come over come here and act in the meeting at the right time, but I was for a good reason. I needed to explain something that I'll tell you in person if you ask me because it is really interesting discussion I had. But anyway, I think I think the message is pretty, pretty clear in our email conversations that we're gonna march some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "part of art with, with the trees being created, these things and we are also discussing something like how to do the area and mailing lists, some of them are, like, really tools cushion, try to figure it out how to move over from one mailing list to another, but and others. Others are like, this area this area of what we do with those things are more of, like, Oh, what we should do as a week area. So, we're discussing on it, and in due time, I think, will be discussing with more of all our participants So any kind of feedback that you have that could you think would could help us, we are merging the area, working groups into the wit area would be will be very me and Francisca, and, I mean, Martin will be very very We'll appreciate that if you come come to us and share your thoughts. Okay. And that's a nice segue into open mic. It is time for you to share whatever you like with the community, ask questions or insult or compliment your ADs and, Francesca's here if if you have a crushing pertinent to her. Gory Ferris. What a resplendent set of ADs? How wonderful. Okay. After the compliment. So how will we go to handle things in width? As as we get, group closing, and we have made some assignments and things, because I see TSBWG is doing lots of strange stuff interfacing with it on dif servant, but also kind of picking up some of this kind of order stuff which reappears and needs to be revamped and done, is there a similar sort of function in which you imagine of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "a group, or is it will be will it be this group that kind of picks up the web part of that hustle, hustle, or do you not know yet? Knowing it's okay as well. While Francesca's going to the mic. She goes better than me. Like, I mean, I think HP this is probably the catchall for web topics, I would imagine. Okay. But but I'll stand to be corrected probably. So, yes, if we have proposals that we know where they're they're supposed to land. We're probably gonna start by bringing them to the respective working groups like HTTP, this is an example. In art, we have one mechanism called dispatch. And it's working group where we, bring topic that it's not really clear clear where they should land and we are discussing within the ASG on what to do with dispatch, but so far, dispatch is staying in art. So we don't have a similar mechanism, or we don't We're not foreseeing right now to have a specific one for WIC. But it also depends, like, what will come and, like, if we will need something like that, then I think it's a bit fluid at the moment, but Yeah. Yeah. That wasn't quite my question, but that is an interesting question. So it's good to have an answer there. But normal my question was what happens to old stuff when you close working groups that still has to be maintained. Because we have a lot of those in transport. Maybe you don't have them in the side. Maybe everything's new, just getting new shiny stuff. Mean, the working groups, they're they're closing down. They're done with their chartered items. And if there needs to be maintenance and and more work done, then they will reopen and they will change your charter and they will, you know, continuing that way. to work Fight. So I'm not gonna press on this. Yeah. I'm just curious. Gauri, if you're a specific asking, like, the transport related stuff. So let let me just maybe reexplained it. This is the wheat area actually have to some kind of things. Right? I kind of saw. I saw one side of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "and TSB, double g, perhaps catching the fallout from Yeah. I think side. I wonder what happened on the other side, so I knew where to push stuff over in the other direction. But I give it to the AD and she swaps it out. That's fine. I think I think for TSB, we the TSBW still remains on that that kind of note that part, but the for the web, I I think my my assumption would be like, yeah, well, HTTP is part of, like, go to thing, but if if if if if if if like Francesca says, like, if there is any specific way of pushing forward, we'll net know what are the working groups are. We'll just talk with them. So so we're in the same area with the sub sub sub subcategories. And it doesn't need to be, you know, very more complicated than that. Happy with the answer. Thank you. And and the last thing I would say is that TSBW technical scope is unchanged. And in fact, when when I actually push the button on auto, I will be putting the tombstone that ops AWG is gonna take ownership those documents, and I've gotten clearance from ops because I know you don't want that. And then because for obvious reasons. It's not that I don't want stuff. It's just other people might want it more. Very diplomatically stated. Brian, I, Brian Tremmel. I have to admit, like, while all those is going on, I I did not pay attention to any of it because I have, like, a maximum bandwidth for reorgs. And, you know, job reorgs. So, like, you know, IETF reorgs are, like, Martin's on it. Don't have to worry about that said, like, something that came up in in like, that occurred to me sort of, like, in your introduction, Francisco is didn't we do this a long time ago? Like, there's a lot of sort of, like, overlap of the the the shape of the technical concepts, if not sort of like the the messy history of the technology as to how we got here. And not a question for all the people who will explain to me why we didn't do that before that was a rhetorical question. David sit down. So so you well, you so, I mean, you you mentioned reorg bandwidth in that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "lies to me as well. But, but, but, actually, a fundamental actually, the real answer, frankly, is that the the driving things, the difficulty of of recruiting, transport ADs. Yeah. Yep. And, like, at the moment, like, we hatched this. There were essentially no prospects. And in fact, some people stepped up later in the game, but yeah. Speaking of some of the new information, to get some of the ID transport AD nomination that I was like, you know, very happy to not have to click either yes or no on, because you closed the area first. Yay. Thank you very much. Like, I, I get that The this was a a a preface to, like, I like the no sudden movements where, like, you know, they're two separate areas where the TSB art is going to remain sort of unchanged and in the same scope as we go along I think there's a lot more synergy within the WIT area as a own area, and I think this was a thing that we should probably slowly revisit, especially with reviews. I think that, like, cross review between the bits of art art art and TSB art that are sort of in this overlap space. I think there's probably a lot of of opportunity interchange there within the review teams. So that's feedback. Thank you very much, and thanks for doing this. So I didn't have to click no on TSTP. So so, Brian, I just want to add to what margin side. Like, I mean, this was, like, kind of need driven. We had this problem with it. He's very So, like, there was, like, exploring of, like, different working groups in the arts. So there was something. And we didn't end started with this combination. But we end up with this conviction because this made more sense at least to me. Yes. So I was actually one of the driver of putting this wave and transport area together, so that that we have this kind of synergy. But, yeah, How is is there? So, I mean, I I hear your plea for synergy and, like, I think ultimately that's gonna depend on the ADs in any given term. There's one like scenario where a particular set of ADs involved to people whose skills relate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "straddle the whole set. I mean, all those people are in this room. And if it is one of people, if if it's 2 of those people, then they'll probably really work together hand in glove. Alternatively, like, Did the the witness AD with transport skills could be like a pure, like, t speak kernel guy. And or or gal. And and the the the personally the web skills could really not know anything about transport, in which case, they would almost run them as separate silos unless they happen. It it you know, especially they didn't get along. So this is gonna be an individual in an HTTP 3 world, a, person who knows nothing about transport is dangerous to the internet. I would say that that's a non comm problem, but that's a separate discussion. Thank you. David. David's Ganazi, witty enthusiasts. Actually, it's difficult to introduce myself here. Yes. I'm enthusiastic about mask. Quick, maybe I'm potential future with AD candidate. Who knows? The day is young. Crap. I forgot what I got up here to say. You actually said that you're gonna be next week at in nominee. So, you know, well, no, no, there's the word candidate that I'm anyway, and I might also run away screaming. Who knows? But to I I wanted to help answer Corey's question. Because, a lot of the work loops that we have, Take mask, for example, we started it A lot of the work there was figuring out what problem we wanted to solve. And so as an example, we spent more than a year on an IP proxy scene requirements document. That we didn't publish, and I'm bitter about that, but that's separate. But it was really important to do that effort. And then we develop some extension stage the objective. That's what they are. We're developing a few more, and then we're gonna close mask and all of that work is gonna land in HTTP because it's conceptually a set of HTTP extensions. It didn't happen in the HTTP working group because figuring out which ones we wanted to build took a lot of time and it we didn't wanna do it there."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "Web transport is kind of in the same boat. And if you look at the charters, all these groups, they don't explicitly say by the end of it, we will dump all the work over there. But they do if you look at the statements, the last sentence is often We will coordinate with this group. That's the person who's gonna end up holding the bag at the end of the day. Thank you, David. But, I I I wanna associated with those agreements, I would also, there was to to go to reverse to to rewind a little bit. Someone asked something about about directorates. Everything is subject to change at all. I mean, like, director stuff is always subject to change, but, like, as it stands today, HP Dur will continue to exist. That will be supervised by Witt. Art art is still an art doing art art stuff. There's still some discussion about like who moves over and all that stuff I mean, obviously, people move around. But, That is where the current state of play is. Can't Can we have a witty director that just provides witty reviews? Spencer. Thank you. I I was going to respond to something that David said, and I, now I'm responding to 2 things David said. Number 1 is that forgetting what you got up to the mic say is actually a core skill for transport area director. It's historically. Our director, so historically. So, you you just pass you just pass the test on that. But, I wanna, I wanna redirect back to, and I'm I'm also in for the witty reviews. But I wanted to thank the ISG for, making a change that was not an easy change to make. I didn't comment on I told Martin at the quick sorry, the, mock interim. I didn't I didn't comment on the proposals for Whit,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "because reasons, but, I I think of I think I think historically ISGs have been, maybe a little more reluctant to change things, in a way, you know, make difficult choices than too eager to make difficult choices. I think that, I think that, you all are doing the right thing here. And I hope that, the ISG and, in general, and the WIT area specifically continue to use that the, you know, the flexibility that this is showing. One thing I would say is it's, you know, it's a whole lot easier to move work from 1 working group to another in the same area. You know, just just dumb stuff like that. And we've had we've had in transport We've had working groups that have been back and forth between transport and whatever we were calling the application space, of you know, multiple times some of them. So I you're, you know, I think you all are doing the right thing. I would encourage, the wit community and whoever ends up as with ADs going forward, to continue to use that flexibility. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Spencer. I will also point out that that a a wrinkle in the system is that Zai heads and Francesca's terms are expiring at the same time next year. And so, I am not really in charge of the structures of the nomcom for next cycle. Like, the sensible thing to do would be to say that one of those positions would be a 1 year position and 1 would be 2 year position to increase the stackering. So there's some interesting opportunities. I know some of you be a little more excited about a 1 year commitment than a 2 year commitment. And, that's something to consider, and start prepping the ground for, if you'd be interested. The queue is empty. Does anyone would anyone else like to approach the open mic? Or do we all get time back?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "Oh, Magnus. Real time media transport. I have to be I'm a little disappointed leaving it out of the area. Declaration because you actually sucked up quite a lot of real time media transport with EBITDA core WebRTC and and mock, and it's it's not it it gets just floats around inside the area in in in a not super clear way, but, yeah, I guess it's it is what this I'm sorry. Is there a specific working group that you want in width that is not? No. No. No. No. I was just saying that the area acronym is is you forgot the whole area of transport. This is the multimedia transport. Yeah. I mean, the thing I think the thinking was like I think I think I think I I was thinking about that one. Definitely, Magnus, you know, so I think I settled with internet transport because the the abbreviation says web and internet transport. So that's like all internet traffic class kind of thing. Like, we all can know real time best before Yeah. For the so we we got settled with that one. No. But, yeah, I think this is good. I I do like it, and and I wish It's something we'd done earlier actually. It was it's it would have suited my profile even more before. So That was negative. We could always have another bike sheds. We name it to work if if that would make you happy like this. But we we this is good. Like, you wanted to solve this, transport like, any candidate issue, and we have, like, almost 2 sitting on the front row. Debit and Magnus saying like they fit into the purpose. So that's good. That'd be good. So any any more? Spencer. Spencer, are you still in the queue, or are you back? I I'm back and, goes I, you know, I I'm I'm there again, I'm there for Magnus in the renaming everything to war. But, someone more seriously, I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:05",
    "text": "only able to attend about the 1st 20 minutes of CCEWG, which is doing good work. Earlier this week, but, you you know, it's become kind of obvious to me as one of the editors for RTP over quick that the IETF as a whole and including the transport area is way further ahead on bandwidth maximizing congestion control, or congestion control for, applications that seek to maximize bandwidth usage, then, than we are on real on real time. And, that's definitely, like I said, I'm definitely echoing what Magda was Magda was saying about that's a really big deal And, with We're we're we we are ending up in the RTP sp sorry, the, RTP over quick spec basically saying, confirm media is different, and we describe a few ways that media is different, So do the right thing. And, that that I think that's actually the best we can do right now but it would be great if, people thought about this more. And, again, I don't wanna derail the important work that CCWG is doing. I'm just saying, the community recognizes that there's more to do after they after they, progress through the current charter deliverables. Thank you. Thanks, That's noted. I think we discussed some some of that part from doing the, chartering of that working group. But now we're actually more focusing on a PT 33 biz. So Let's finish that. And then,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "I think we're already having some discussion about the real time condition control and all this thing as anyway. I mean, I wanna keep 50 as the editor of 50.50 for your business, I would like to keep it pretty focused on evaluation criteria. But I I certainly the hope in chartering CCWG was that there would be more work. I was a little worried there wouldn't be, but it looks like there is So that's good. Jonathan. I'm just relaying a a short discussion that was in the chat. So David Black was mentioning stuff about allowing dispatch to sense to ask to which would make sense. And Francesca basically pointed out that us dispatch Already since worked to other areas, so sending it to which groups is not actually a change. I think the other thing I would echo from the chat, which is what I put in there was that, as Francesca alluded to, the ISG is actually considering a pretty sweeping dispatcher form. We'll see how the dust settles on that. If the dust settles so that there's, like, no way to dispatch stuff that wet, then I'm sure the wood of these unvent something. Or maybe this this discussion will solve the problem. Last call, joined the queue. Or we can go have cookies. Okay. Enjoy the cookies. Just in time. Go ahead. I try. Yeah. I'm sorry. This my only second idea. My name is Agna. I'm from Shisma Iraqi. I was actually very, very interested in auto, and I've been reading it graphs and trying to work with that, the cost maths, and I'm wondering what do I do with the idea that I have Now do I take it to dispatch? Next time. I would encourage you to start by contacting AD. Those are probably the best place to route things because sometimes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "the ISU, which decide that it clearly belongs in a certain place. Your idea is also specific, you can come to me or, yeah, I'm probably the best option. That said, like, the the auto work, the auto, Mailing list will remain open because there is still community working on things there. In place to at least connect with people And, I know that some of the ultimate proponents really wanna come back and do a BAF or something of additional work. Which would probably be in the ops area. So, you could talk so, I mean, if you and maybe all the above, but could talk to an AD. You could get on the ultimate analyst, and you could talk, and you could Through there, identify the Ultra proponent still trying to make something further happen in the IETF. I just my judgment was that nothing was really particularly ready. To go do standardization work at this time. But, I'm I think the door is certainly open towards that. Changing as it be as it matures. Okay. Okay. Got it. Thanks. Okay. Once again, anyone like to block us from cookies for a few more minutes. One lieutenant. Like that. Going once. going twice. Have a good IETF and we will see you in Brisbane. Sierra and Brisbane. Congratulations you made it to the end of the transport area. I just have to point out the lies of the ISG. The cookies will only come out during the break. Okay. It's not too late for a recall, David. So so, Debbie, there is somebody called Mahesh who's saying, like, replacing Martin some in the a teleprompter. So maybe that guy did say that Yep. Yep. I'm CSM."
  }
]
