[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:31",
    "text": "[Music] we all kind of know because I was like I think it\u0027s times of rich dark it\u0027s already one fast good evening welcome to hell week I am pretty sure you are all here for Elvis so this is Morten then I\u0027m sure you have seen the note well since the morning but since it\u0027s still Monday if you want to have a look at it if you have any questions please come to the mic I\u0027m breaking help us for a mini Staker and Java Master P so Wes Roku can you count on rock ooh oh he\u0027s back what is here [Music] yet here\u0027s some update since last IDF or oh we didn\u0027t have meeting last time and we have walking blast Corps for the TCP draft and which has been updated plans and we are going to report the walking rubric last score update of this document today and the other Trotter is related to crypto and the status of the drafts there we curve representations are in the ad evaluation but we have some discussion with the CFR G research group chair and I think the current consensus that st i think is still be it can be processed to you and but I think it\u0027s a kosher perd with the to working group and we are sent the IETF last core knows too the cfrp Sivaji many lists and happily "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:34",
    "text": "we had to long walking group document updated during this period the first wine star customs drop-down there are c 17 to 28 piece and we are waiting I don\u0027t know if there is any request to adopt this document anyway we are going to discuss this and the other drafting is the security classes draft hi so my just speaking no hat as a participant I think we got some information that NIST is also doing something what this has liquor representations is doing perhaps John and Renee have more information on this since they fall honest much more than I do there is probably some overlap but that there is no reason why we should move this forward I don\u0027t know if John you want to comment something on that agree yes hand the blue sheet so I think the title this light is wrong and so we we have some other working group document that has been adopted but there seems no activity since for these draft we are going to ask the all sorts of restaurant how what\u0027s the status of the draft and so that we can have pre plan about each draft and anything want to mention but I\u0027m going to ask one by one first one is the Rahu\u0027s draft down the labor management policy yeah so we really were looking for the review reviews we had the implementation in place the performance results in place but since we didn\u0027t get any any any any any any feedback from the working group so I mean we just didn\u0027t update it anymore but if there is any one interested we really feel that the problem is kind of important to be handled we have seen that problem getting discussed on Wi-Fi Alliance mailing group and all that but to continue any further we need some sort of feedback from the working group so that\u0027s where we stopped my suggesting that we can issue the working group last call right after the meetings so that because people tend to avoid doing anything if there is no then I so if we issue a walking blast core probably there will be P critical views or you know help for views about these routes there will be helpful for you and also the working group that will great thank you okay so so then we we can update the draft and then do really really any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:35",
    "text": "updates in mind or you know it\u0027s just I mean we have to know there is no new thing we have already deployed this in in production it\u0027s already working in production with the open source and the performance data okay so I will know this we will issue the working blast core right after meeting and the other one so the security portico how about this one yeah not a time to update this the plan is as discussed last meeting to update it with GLS 102 and DTLS one or two as well as group or score for two parties and I think I have been contacted by I don\u0027t remember which University but asking exactly for TLS one or two numbers the new available numbers so you can compare if TLS 103 TLS 102 there\u0027s just high level like 500 bytes and so on so that\u0027s the thinking needed then the long-term plan I don\u0027t know ed Hocken CTLs will it will take a while before these are stable I don\u0027t know maybe I here or something so the question is do we wait on these what do we do do we have do we remove them and publish - we have preliminary numbers and say that these might be updated yeah a solution so I would say take it off right if you\u0027re gonna wait for it like you know let it get updated later just like go for it right now so I think there\u0027s like value in having this published so just go and get it done okay thank you thank you this one fixed how about he\u0027s won custody I think that\u0027s ready for rank last call maybe I should we submitted so it\u0027s not expired but I think that\u0027s all that needs to be done okay so I think there\u0027s another design team in the sixth row about the similar topic topic right - really - yeah it\u0027s a bit weird that we that there are three drafts covering two bases one is what does the existing protocol allow you to do and then there\u0027s one new protocol the new protocol has its own draft but the existing thing for some reason got split up between six low and and a week that doesn\u0027t make a lot of sense but it\u0027s how this this document came to be so the virtual reassembly document this one describes how to do it and the one in six low tells you how good the residence "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:35",
    "text": "and the one in six law is I think has passed working last call and and all so it\u0027s kind of not so useful without this one okay so I think from this point of view TC this one is more practical just answering different questions so this tells you how to do it and the other one tells you what you get okay that\u0027s a good answer suresh krisshnan as like responsibility for both of these I don\u0027t mind holding it until this gets to me before it goes forward that could be something we do or if you think there\u0027s value in merging them that\u0027s okay with me too so catalyst is also here so he can comment as well but I don\u0027t see why they cannot be the same document if if that\u0027s your question so we can work on the specifics so we\u0027ll figure out how to do this okay Alice you want to say something Carlos Gomez so yeah basically in the 6lo session on Wednesday we have a lot dealing with both fragmentation related documents so one of the points there was something that the rise from the internet area directed review which was related with the intended status for the six long document so that we\u0027ll be wanting to discuss okay this one\u0027s had be fixed I good very productive today how about this one is Daniel here or any body on the AUSA list no going to skip this okay this one is a pretty tricky because I think III really stalk him in multiple times I think he\u0027s a useful document but the thing is that the core has been changed too much so we start to really to up this document to reflect the advancing call walking group or we can leave it along custom so the the intention of course was to use this document to collect some some information about a protocol that that is increasingly being deployed and the within the car Wagner we have been discussing that maybe we need something that that\u0027s more that\u0027s more along the lines of what was it RFC 48 five my RFC number guesser doesn\u0027t work today which was document in the rock working group where we for for five years kept it open as a internet draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:37",
    "text": "and collected errors and clarifications so the the work that needs to be done is to risk redistribute the content between those two documents so the other one is in the car working group but not particularly active at the moment but we have started collecting issues that need to go into that document so there is some work being done but just not the document yet but on the github repository and the next step is actually getting these issues over there and then to look at the two documents and to see which part goes where yes the intention understand the intention so but the I don\u0027t do you have any suggesting how to possess this document oh we just leave either life and make it open all the time or maybe someone who can be editor so that we can poke this editor every now and then if the draft is not being updated because like the author\u0027s clearly have moved on to other things document hasn\u0027t been updated in quite a while it\u0027s very useful piece of information but we need someone to kind of see through yeah that\u0027s good you and you volunteer to be the editor all right can you do the job ask me again in February but in principle yes okay yes Kristen and I would say let it die for now it\u0027s like a document it\u0027s like you know it\u0027s available for whenever when when this energy to edit it like some we can just revive it and go on so it\u0027s like a carson finds time in february or in june right whenever there\u0027s something to update like somebody\u0027s gonna come back with it then we update it because i think if there\u0027s no energy to update it like you know I don\u0027t want to be stuck with the Stockman because nobody\u0027s going to review it either so I think it\u0027s just let it die and when somebody needs it we can just drive it and keep going you don\u0027t without going through the process again okay my opinion okay that\u0027s very good guy thank you thank you sir rich yes that\u0027s pretty much we have and the custom yeah so you have updated this document to you so what\u0027s your intention do you want to request a adoption immediately or this peace document there are several new things in in this document of course we already have published as having a true 28 so there are new things in here and it would be good to get some feedback about these new things what one new thing is security classes which is an interesting thing given the other draft but there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:39",
    "text": "are also some some other new parts about energy usage and about additional classes of processor power so I think it would be good to get some reviews for that and then I actually would propose adopting it so I think before we move forward with the agenda for today in a week maybe this is something for the participants to consider where do they see the working group going in the future because one challenge I see with the documents is that they are kind of very specific on certain topics so the crypto document is is being driven by one or two guys who know no crypto but then there\u0027s very few participants who are actually providing reviews the same with minimal s or some of the other documents so what kind of you\u0027re missing is having this broad participants and provide comments and you know the participation is seems to be going down so maybe as a suggestion one way we can think about it is we don\u0027t have a physical meeting every time but only when there is a significant mass of documents that have been updated we keep the working group alive we keep the mailing list alive when there is sufficient drive let\u0027s say from caution on on certain documents we can schedule a meeting or when John updates the protocol comparison document we can schedule a meeting but then it\u0027s up to you how frequently you want the meetings we will not ask for a meeting until there is significant mass of documents updated so one one one problem that we have is that sense tract of humans always override informational documents so during an IETF week it\u0027s really hard to find spare cycles maybe we should actually do virtual interims at some point at some point where we are not in a frenzy getting stuff done here the ITF and try to progress documents in this way like what do you say it sounds good to me and if Carson like once you try it I think I\u0027m open to it like you know just like set up a meeting probably like mid cycle if you want and see if people turn up right but I do see the low energy too and I think it\u0027s like fair like you know similar thing happened to DHC right so DHC had like a period where like I know there was not much energy and then like they had like a little bit more right like there\u0027s like maket as assignment came up and then there\u0027s more energy so it\u0027s it\u0027s up to you guys like you know I\u0027m fine keeping the group open and then just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:39",
    "text": "waiting it out to see like give it give it a year that\u0027s kind of what I told the DAC chairs like I give you a year and if like nothing turns up I close it down so that\u0027s kind of like the thinking I have your ass sounds good to us do you have some comments Karlis let\u0027s go miss well-known the question about future of the working group but on the point of getting participation on specific topics for example for the TCP draft the involvement of TCP M has been great so I think that trying to involve participants from the more related topic topic related working groups would be great to get feedback indeed that perhaps the exception that proves the rule 8 has received a lot of comments and reviews so let\u0027s continue with such a digital agenda today so first of all we have colors to present the TCP usage guidance in the for the IRT and Connor\u0027s is shortened hello everyone my name is Carlos Gomez I\u0027m going to present the current status and the last update of the draft and title TCP uses guidance in Internet of Things first of all let\u0027s see the status of the document the last time the draft was presented was in brac that was the revision 0-5 then around that time we received comments by stuart shire and corey Fairhurst which led to revisions 0 6 and 0 7 respectively then there was a working group last call on Burton 0 7 and during the working group last call we received comments by Ingemar Johansson and two very thorough and comprehensive reviews by ilpo and mark oh by the way thanks a lot to everyone who has given feedback for this document which has been really useful so we produced version 308 with the aim to address the working robles call comments but still after that there were some remaining points so the last update is - 0 9 which is aimed to address those remaining points well now let\u0027s look at the update in this last revision first of all ill Poe had three rather minor comments basically he suggested to replace a term pure ACK by another term ACK without payload then the second point was related with the section where we explained that Windows size of 5 segments is needed in order to trigger first retransmit and fast recovery so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:39",
    "text": "have an example there and however the there was a sentence that could mislead the reader to understand that segments 1 to 6 could be sent immediately right from the beginning so we corrected that and also there was one purely editorial improvement suggested so we applied that as well then regarding Marcus outstanding comments there was a more general comment about a term which was single segment so in most of the versions of this document we have been using the term single MSS basically this refers to implementations that handle window sizes and buffers of size of single MSS however in the previous version we had maybe spiritually changed that to single segment however after comments by Markov it became clear that single MSS was actually the more appropriate term to use here because it reflects the behavior what is supported in the category of more lightweight TCP implementations which support single MSS window sizes and buffers and also that\u0027s what is described and consistent with what we explained in the document then in the section where we provide guidance on how to set the NSS there was a suggestion to change the phrase limit MTU to limit the IP datagram size and we did that change in fact the MTU is rather parameter property of the underlying network technology below ipv6 then there was another comment in the section where we attempted to provide guidance for how to set the MSS when ipv4 is used however after a comment by Markku we thought that it was better to remove that attempt because in fact there is not an ipv4 equivalent of the ipv6 MTU requirement so it was hard to provide guidance in the same way then in a section that discusses single MSS stacks we explained that in coop there\u0027s usually stop and wait behavior so usually a single MSS window would be sufficient for for that use however there is one exception noted by Markku which is that there\u0027s the CSM message this is for co-op over TCP the CSM which is sent at the beginning of a connection which can be followed immediately by the first application layer message that carries actual user data so here in this case depending on the sizes of the CSM and the first application-layer message then perhaps single MSS window might not be sufficient then in the section that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:39",
    "text": "discusses delayed acts for single MSS implementations we have made some clarifications we had a sentence where we explained that the saving disabling Nagel has no impact if the sender can only handle stop and wait operation we added at the end of the sentence that this is the TCP level to avoid potential confusion with stop and wait operation at the application level and also we applied some additional editorial clarifications then there\u0027s the section where we discuss the RTO algorithm for single MSS implementations here the idea is that the RT algorithm that is used may have a greater impact on performance then when larger window sizes are supported and we already cited in previous versions of the document an algorithm called Coco which was designed for co-op actually and now we have also added another advanced RTO algorithm which has been designed also in the context of Coco which is called phaser and also related with the section I mentioned before when we discuss the window size to trigger fast retransmit and fast recovery in the previous version we explained that with limited transmit window size of three segments in the previous version would be enough to trigger sending segments one to five in the example that we have in that section where segment number two is lost however marco pointed out that it\u0027s actually two segments that\u0027s needed as a window size to trigger the transmission of those segments one to five however there\u0027s the downside of the sender having to wait for the delayed ACK for second one so that was all the updates from my side I don\u0027t know if there may be any comments or questions I guess it\u0027s time for us to do the shepherd it right up and send it forward oh yeah thank you thank you very much Thank You Carlos and thank you for for maku and you know who have you distraught comprehensively thank you the the the the final item on the agenda is the presentation from Rahu and it there\u0027s no draft reflecting this presentation but the content of this presentation has some insights and can provide some insight to our IT airport code especially for the IOT realm and I think we can all learn from something for me and especially for the portico designers hello everyone I\u0027m Rahul Jadhav so this is more of a deployment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:41",
    "text": "experiences which we took back and you know which had a lot of impact on the protocol and protocol designs which we took back to the individual working groups and we found it not useful so this is essentially in 2014 we started off with a project for AMI and we found that you know we assembled a protocol stack we tested it in Kuja we found that everything is working all fine and then we try to check whether it can actually scale so we would we had to put up a hardware based test environment of 300 nodes and it was really really difficult to manage that kind of scale on hardware and we realized that on hardware the same protocol stack was not able to scale at all and then we tried we tried to check what was the problem and we realized there were a lot of deficiencies in the individual protocols that were not addressed because especially from the performance point of view in Kuja everything worked fine the network convergence time was great the node joining time was great but in reality it didn\u0027t really scale up that well so that\u0027s when we started about about this work roughly around idea of 96 four years back and most of the work that we had taken back reversed was for the role working group and that is what the there is one draft in a week also which is about neighbor management policy which had that particular framework had a lot of impact on it so what is this about it\u0027s about experience sharing we have lot of I Triple E papers and other papers online most of them are doing the tests in Kuja I\u0027ll be talking why it may not be reliable in certain situations the results might be untrustworthy the protocols that are defined as part of those papers may not necessarily be realistic we had burned I mean we have spent a lot of time on on fixing those issues and we really want others to understand what the issues could be so so so the experiments most of the experiments that were done in the existing papers that they have very limited scope because you cannot there are no frameworks available outside which could actually scale to the kind of number of nodes that you want for example if you want to actually simulate a thousand nodes network or hundred nodes network there are options available like in s3 or castelia omnibus press but it\u0027s got them too hard to use those tools and this is where we this is what exactly we had been through and this this this particular talk is about that those experiences so my context here we started off with multi-hop mesh routing protocols we had very bigger we had big networks 1,000 nodes we we aim to reach to that scale of 1,000 nodes with 16 ops a typical ami scenario so this is what we thought what we want is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:42",
    "text": "from this from this framework is you know we wanted something which we can benchmark for and we can have other peoples submit that data their results or their experiments in the same framework so that it can be compared in the same context this was the most important thing we wanted something to be reproducible the data should be reproducible in in on a different system data should be under realistic Network condition I say realistic it\u0027s still simulation but some with realistic path loss modeling with realistic interference and collision modeling so that kind of realism you can of course use the realistic real hardware but to deploy real hardware with five hundred or forget you in five hundred you in one hundred nodes is it requires a lot of manpower and requires a lot of not not most of the most of the teams here could muster that kind of that kind of energy or that kind of resources that are required for a hardware test but the third important the next important thing was the interrupt testing we wanted to test at scale so we have a lot of open source options available we wanted to check if the know those open sources could actually inter work with each other at scale so in most of the interrupts you would see that there are few nodes kept on the desk they talk to each other and it\u0027s and that\u0027s how we prove the interoperability but at performance but if you want real performance at scale if you are putting two 100 nodes a lot of protocol specific idiosyncrasies that come up which results in a very bad performance eventually for the whole network and we want something we wanted something which we\u0027re in a scenario configuration could be shared to other developers they can just take the scenario configuration and start from there and get the data so we understood that realistic models aren\u0027t necessarily especially for wireless constrained networks some some characters such as asymmetric links impact of channel access interference and collision patterns could have a really really big impact on the overall design performance data is important to be measured but best is to use hardware but it\u0027s not always possible so the these were the premises that where we build upon so now that we are talking about yet another framework I should explain that there are a lot of framework already in place for example the Kuja it\u0027s very good to use it has extremely good visualization and that is why we could see that almost 60 to 70 percent of I Triple E papers give data based on Kuja it\u0027s it\u0027s and it integrates very easily with the existing most popular open-source operating system called quanta key and it\u0027s it it makes it very easily real easy to use it supports hardware emulation that is another feature that it has but it doesn\u0027t really have any realistic path loss modeling and propagation models it cannot scale to hundreds of nodes it works on top of JVM if you try to put in hundreds of node that it\u0027s going to just die off one good option is to use NS 300 minute plus plus these are these provide you realistic options but it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:43",
    "text": "impossible to use the realistic net real network stack if you want the network stack from riot or quantity or any other Linux kernel for that matter to be used on top of NS 3 or only clusters you have to put your code in context 2 n is 3 or a minute plus plus which is a really really big ask it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a big work in itself so there are certain options such as NS 3 provides something called as tab bridge but these options cannot scale to hundreds of nodes you can\u0027t have really I mean you can have hundreds of tap interfaces but it\u0027s really an ugly way of doing that using the doing at that kind of scale you know you you don\u0027t want 1,000 tap interfaces on your machine just for simulation powers there are hardware based test test bits in three ah fyt IOT lab they you get practical data from that but you have limited scale and the access to those test bits are rather limited in the sense that you can\u0027t really play with it you have confined time in which you can operate on them you can\u0027t really change configuration and quickly check the data so realistic simulation frameworks are difficult to use here is the data from one of the papers which had been recently submitted if you see Kuja is the most dominant tool and it\u0027s 3 is also another the second most dominant tool but Kuja beats everyone else by a big big number it\u0027s 63 person you see the the data the graph on the right hand side shows you how many of the experiments had actually used Hardware less than 40% of experiments have actually used Hardware and 80% of those experiments use less than 60 nodes so not mu and mu if you see most of the documents in a lot of working group talks scaling to thousands of nodes while while while there are no practical frameworks which can actually deliver on that task so this work we had started during ITF 96 it\u0027s called white fill and this is basically how it operates you know you you have you have so you have the realistic protocol stack quantity right and then you have an s3 or only plus plus right now a minute plus plus is not integrated only the NS 3 is integrated in this you can use real Network stack in this and the same network stack can be as it is migrated to the hardware so the advantage is you you you\u0027ll be able to experiment with and it can scale as well it can scale to find it nodes on on a regular laptop it supports an s3 as of now but it can support ideal air ideal air is a is the context in which in which you can actually have configurations which can be shared to everyone else you have deterministic models where the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:43",
    "text": "thing can happen over and over again and you can share the configuration to someone else question a vision yeah I have a general question from the previous slide the statistics that you have shown over there in that pie chart so the small amount of coordinate percentage percentage for coordinate I mean is it because of its quali qualitative reason or is it because of prohibitive cost and I well I don\u0027t know about that because the paper doesn\u0027t talk about it this is the data from the paper that have known what I want to know emboss factor have you have you evaluated quality in terms of its properties the the offerings that it gives or is it only that academicians do not use it much because of that so whether that kind of an analysis has been done so especially you asking specifically in context of cornet cornet we have not evaluated alright we have we have done experiments in Kuja and s3 ohm net and WS net as well because I am also ended attached to University and quality\u0027s a pain working for anticipation I don\u0027t know where the quality is a paid it\u0027s a paid tool I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t even know about that okay yeah so so this is what we have essentially what we have is we have individual protocol stacks operating and we have a virtual airline which operates only the physical and Mac layer inside the airline and it the the the network stack whenever it delivers a packet it\u0027s delivered to a corresponding virtual node in the airline using a message queue right now the message queue is implemented using abstract UNIX domain sockets but the realism the wireless realism that you get is from actually the industry but the best part is that you don\u0027t have to change your code or you don\u0027t have to change your design to suit in s3 you can use the existing protocol stack in context when is three so that\u0027s a so quantity right and right is already supported open thread support is in progress it\u0027s it\u0027s still not there every stack line here is an individual process so what we do essentially is every stack line for example kontiki we have added support a platform support for white fill it takes the packet from quanta key and sends it to the NS three corresponding virtual node in the NS three and then it goes go on to the target node and then it comes back to the stack line again so maximum 60,000 nodes could be scale but we have practically tested it for 1,500 nodes as of now we don\u0027t have a machine that powerful to run 60,000 nodes but anyways we have ran it for 1,500 node at max the airline stack line and communication line are all decoupled such that the new new new stacks could easily be added here we have planned to add sapphire as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:44",
    "text": "well in the near future it already we have tested Interop between quantity and right in the in this platform so this is how it looks you know there are a lot of configuration that has to be input in this but what we are trying to do is trying to synergize or we are trying to give all this common configuration to the whiteford core and then let the white coat give you the results of the OEM is same across all the stack lines so even if you use quantity alright your onm is the same the the the white fill integrates with all the oils for individual stacks so case to be one so this has been one of the most important draft that we have been working in roll most of the data that we have we have gathered for this particular work has been has been taken using this framework without this framework we wouldn\u0027t have been possible to you know get Candice get the kind of results for the first time we were able to test inter up between riot and quantity at scale and we found lot of issues with the primary issue been that the DAO aggregation is not handled in quantity so there is some messaging that needs to be handled so it\u0027s not handled we reported that arc welder fragmentation issue on write mailing list this was discussed like any year year-and-a-half before basically essentially we could read Interop at scale network convergence time for three hundred nodes quantity nodes in Kuja it reports less than twenty seconds if you use Kuja but but if you try to do the same thing with why white field or with realistic hard with real hardware the convergence time is in minutes so there is clearly a major difference between what you see in the simulation platforms versus what you really get control over it was very different so the control over it when you test it with Kucha is very different you get very little control control over it because the very less losses the interference is less then our interference model but those are not realistic case two we have NP de which which showed the impact of optimized value in validation on overall network the actual numbers with Kooza were really really nice but we couldn\u0027t report that we had to report some realistic data so so our numbers were what much much different from what Kuja could have actually produced neighbor management policy which the draft which we have here in albuquerque expired but yeah so we we showcased we already had presented our performance data last time in a week it\u0027s about the impact of neighbor cash policy on the overall network stabilization how stable your network will run if we have limited neighbor cash size the minimal fragment draft again we had presented this in in in in L wig as well as six low before it shows the impact of a two 2.15 dot for single channel mode of operation on fragment forwarding so all this data all the data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:45",
    "text": "that I am talking of is available with the detailed configurations and observations and the raw data on the on the same whiteford frame for github so there\u0027s another interesting piece of work which started last year in called as IOT bench it\u0027s a community effort to better evaluate and compare low-power wireless network the principles of AIT bench and while Whitefield are more or less similar so basically we did the aim is that the developers the implementers should be able to share their configurations share their observations and it should the data should be reproducible IOT bench provides an excellent conceptual framework it clearly abstracts what are the configurations that are required the performance metrics eventually and Whitefield in the und going forward we will try to use lot of recommendations from this work that\u0027s that\u0027s it if anyone is interested here is the details of the framework it\u0027s it\u0027s completely open it\u0027s a GPL license and it\u0027s completely driven from so I found this presentation and the whole work very useful my question is actually to our ad serration do you think this is something we could publicize with the within the IOT block that Steve writes because I think this has implications across several working groups so based on this kind of more real-world simulations we had these these these troughs which were then affecting these working groups kind of showing that why having realistic implementations in the ITF is is our way of working a solution I think I can do even better we can go on IETF durog blog if you want right so we can I can like introduce you to Greg we can probably write something we\u0027ve done this before we\u0027ve done something for lp1 like we wrote like an article like I sat down and with Pascal and Alex and wrote something so if you\u0027re interested like you know I\u0027ll talk to Greg and we can figure out how we want to write about it ok so it goes an idea or I have one more question in the context if the time permits so is one thing that we had been thinking is is it is it possible for us to give the benchmark configurations as part of IIT of draft and say that you know these are the benchmark configurations that one should test if one needs to assure like there\u0027s been like lot of drafts like I especially like no earlier in the idea of which had like test vectors directly in the RFC\u0027s like so I think there\u0027s like pre-existing stuff for that so I don\u0027t see why not I like that you can publish this like configuration kind of thing I don\u0027t see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:45",
    "text": "why it should be an issue but a blog entry would be just as good I think but if you can publish it and we can reference it somehow it should be ok too and it\u0027s pretty much permanent as well so I think it\u0027s like a really good vehicle for this thanks boys for soliciting it thank you thank you very much thank you sorry before very where are the blue sheet [Music] okay this session ends and thank you for coming and thank you for coming and have a nice evening and the week ahead "
  }
]