[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "[Music] the chicken in from the light is it just put this a protector on yeah [Music] while we wait on a protector to heat up do we have any volunteers for a minute taker anyone okay awesome thank you and I\u0027ll try to JavaScript oh sure awesome thanks okay so then the five minutes when you finally manage to join IETF tavern room all right we\u0027re monkeying around with the projector as usual on okay so usual note well I basically these are the conditions under which you participate in the IDF the agenda for today first thing is to take care of some administrivia get a status update on a discussion of 69-62 biss and obtaining proofs because there\u0027s been a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "lot of discussion of that recently I named redaction and privacy also going to be a long discussion binaries logging and a log monitoring API which that discussion may or may not happen so you\u0027ve got blue sheets out on then the next order of business is saying thank you to Steven we\u0027ve gotten him a plaque with log log information for the ietf certificate okay status update no changes to the Charter all you know as always we are we are behind schedule we now have 42 open tickets so thank you very much to Richard and 69-62 bits working group last call did not complete successfully so that\u0027s this is why we\u0027re here I name it action we\u0027ve got several competing proposals that will be talking about today and output from this will go to the mailing list on the threat analysis is stuck and we don\u0027t have complete agreement about why we\u0027re stuck but we really need to shake this loose over the next month or so and get this out um so I we\u0027re going to take this to the mailing list as well if anybody has strong feelings about it that they\u0027d like to share here that\u0027d be helpful as well um if the end of your say what they want I volunteer to be co-author and put it in the text yeah that first part is the problem sorry if did working group chairs say what they want okay yeah I mean we\u0027ve got this situation with the editor that needs to be resolved as well yeah it\u0027s if it were only that simple um okay so let\u0027s see the CT gossip is our first document that has completed working group last call and has been sent on for publication so many thanks to lena\u0027s for that and for everybody who\u0027s reviewed it and done implementation on CT DNS SEC we have no no update on that and at is they\u0027re interested in moving this forward yes okay well as usual the way to do to do that is to update drafts to submit new ones on CT binaries there\u0027s new interested in picking this up um and and Frank has a draft that he\u0027ll be talking about later in addition my understanding is that there\u0027s been some movement on this outside of the IETF I and EKG can probably speak to that but um we would like an update on it when we\u0027re talking about that topic so and a reminder this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "is this is a big deal I in terms of moving the document along 69-62 this needs to be correct but it does not need to be complete we can all right we can always publish additional documents providing explanation additional features and so on okay so so with that we are on to the status update from Aaron all right yes again actually I\u0027m not sure that I do which ones are these that\u0027s not it that\u0027s not it no I don\u0027t those you have them on your yeah yeah okay all right as a reminded the way to minimize the likelihood of this happening is to get them get slides two chairs before the day of the meeting ok so I\u0027m going to give an update about six and six abyss when preparing this I found the slides for my TF 91 with updates about cigna 6th abyss and I really really hope that I won\u0027t be standing here again like in half a year and giving like another update but I\u0027m very confident but I\u0027m very confident that that I want me not tell you why so after World Cup last call we get we\u0027ve got a significant fidic from New Zealand who took took like a very thorough look at the airport like the system design overall and try to use like basically provide different perspective on how city can be built or implemented such that it can give like stronger by Ortiz to clients and generally the bits in 66 to this that may be unfriendly to clients or implement servers in general the feedback falls roughly into one of these four categories which which art has hopefully filed like in the issue tracker and I spent some time trashing them all most of them with him it doesn\u0027t sort but like to the issues right now currently include like the follow up but they will like after that ITF meeting and then what I\u0027ll do I\u0027ll just go over them I\u0027m present so for our say that for I think almost all the issues we have an agreement on that the suggested the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "recommended changes which we will bring back again to the world group for approval to make sure we have consensus on them there are a few that we do we on which were also bring to the world group like for the discussion but mostly what I\u0027m going to describe now is things that is other issues what what was this of the original intention behind each of those and how do we propose to resolve that so that on that editorial front there was description of the log parameters specifically the log metadata section that was either think relatively late in the process and the suggestion was to move that the sort of close at the beginning of the document where we describe an actual log operation we have the extension types defined for sats in the stages these are currently two separate extension types the suggestion was to merge them to a single extension type because right now no extensor define it seemed sensible to me we use the digitally signed notation to describe what the signatures in six and six two bees are over and the suggestion was to use the description from the tailless 13 spec but like retain the encoding of the structure is it including the signature and hash algorithms even though this is metadata that the client should know about the log because the client already knows the logs public key just to make it simply simpler to implement you can just chill out to the underlying crypto library function for decoding that better explanations specifically about how to construct a leaf hash from the certificate in the city and then by the description on how to validate nst so the steps that are needed water like the data structure that needs to be reconstructed and how it could be how it should be validated which are again like sort of implied in the spec but I think a better explanation with would actually make it simpler to implement because we have seen people both for 60 and 62 and choose the base somewhat struggling to to do that correctly I think so far more editorial staff so the of the miracle tree data formats the data structures that are actually used like stored in the tree they\u0027re spread all over should probably be consolidated and grouped into one section or taste a few sections one after yet one after the other a great I would say like bike-sharing opportunity is the notation for the miracle tree section how do you denote like the tree of a given size or an entry at this index I think when Robin I tried finding like standard notations we couldn\u0027t find any so if anybody has suggestion do let us know there was there is a section about all codes so some error codes are common some error codes are specific to a 1 like 1 IP a function call and the suggestion there was to clarify exactly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "what are the common ones and say like there is no reuse of error codes beyond the common ones so each if an error code repeats in some but not all of the API of them hcp cause then for for each of these calls that does that may return it will specify there and then the definition of incorporate like what does that mean for our for submission the certificate to be incorporated I think that\u0027s Richard parts i think that\u0027s a little different than what I thought we discussed yesterday um I was thinking that incorporate an entry would be incorporated into a log when a sign tree had exists that covers that entry yes ok so that\u0027s that\u0027s why agree yes I think we should just like clarify that yeah I think that\u0027s a little more than its rail is that that semantically sound correct to folks in the room looking at Adam seeing he\u0027s nodding because well well no I mean it\u0027s meaningful right because it\u0027s that\u0027s how you interpret the MMD right right so it\u0027s important to have like an actual definition for this what to but you know with the MMD is a delta between to events like what\u0027s the incorporation event so it was like defining that as the time step of sth I think the issuance when sth seemed like an appropriate thing to you okay that language is not in for the record yeah I think that that\u0027s what I guess what triggered this this issue in the first place it\u0027s not entirely clear but broadly speaking I think a log entry can\u0027t really exist unless they\u0027re like what it can exist without having like an sth covering it but clients see that it exists one stage covering it is published so we\u0027ll do that data structures so the few data structures we\u0027ve specified that I think we can like simplifies 11 was the suggestion to get rid of the SCT with proof data be to the structure um I named the trolls of the time very easily obviously that was more useful when we thought that will support reduction either by allowing logging of intermediate certificates and then having one data structure that contains like the ICT they proved sth for this intermediate embedded in there or medicine where else would have made more sense but that isn\u0027t like strictly necessary it just means that client but clients will just have to figure out which initial inclusion proof and sth whether they sort of belong to removal of the time stem from the st ages so this is actually i think it\u0027s a good ticket because it\u0027s sort of exposed like some underlying assumption so you do need the timestamp in the sth to basically show that the log has up like has upheld like the maximum urged elaine to show that indeed the certificate luck or submission was incorporated within a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "given time period but if you want to use the sth is a proof of liveliness from the log then it becomes more tricky because nothing so like you can call i get sth analog and get in a stage that\u0027s eight hours old what does that say about the log I don\u0027t know so I think and I think this is an actual issue that came up i think when we monitored one of the recent one on one log which incorporates so decades and did so within the MMD but we weren\u0027t able to observe the sth that the chose they were incorporated until several hours later so I think this is a discussion that should be like brought up on the list because I\u0027m again I gotta have it like an answer here removal of these these angry types so this is these are date these are data structures for staff returned by the gate increase call and general I think it\u0027s very sensible to make sure that whatever is returned by the gate entry school is the same format that was submitted in the ED chain method just so people are clear here i want to remind folks that even though the name of these struts says entry it\u0027s not actually destruct that is recorded as the entry in the log there\u0027s a different TLS structures also has entry in name so these are the things that are returned in the get entries as metadata about the actual entry yeah and this is a good point i think i\u0027ll is part of the editorial work i\u0027ll go and clean it up and make sure that the data structure that has entering the name is the thing that is in the log like is the log entry and not and not something else and the next one was about indication of certificate / certificate in the entry and nset so right now we have the trans item which can embed all the other data structures in a document and this part of the type in the trans item there is an indication of whether this the trans item contains the necessity for put certificate or necessity for next 5 a-9 certificate and the suggestion here was to move that indication into the city and not have two separate transaction types for these two cities which i think is sensible we\u0027ll just have to make sure that there are no implications beyond that because well that I think logically means it when that\u0027s implemented the SCT stock gets passed around whether the trans item struck so it\u0027s clear exactly what\u0027s being passed around and yet the indication of whether it\u0027s a present of Kansas City or an x.509 certificate icity you still kept in the data structuring doesn\u0027t to be passed along so one thing I think it\u0027s nice about this proposed changes that it makes it a little cleaner too different entry types in the future because you can just increment you add in elements the entry type struct what I already indicate the entry type in the SCT as opposed to having been you translate inside yes yeah it\u0027s a roughly the same number of octet but its native bill it\u0027s a little bit cleaner another arranged yeah I agree um okay so common "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "thread is the HTTP or like the API in general we had a few calls where we\u0027ve added the sth is an output parameter in case the the log doesn\u0027t know about the tree size that the client is crowing about so for example if the client asks for an sth possess approved between two three sizes but that particular front end of the log knows about only knows about the smaller precise because they didn\u0027t like that front and didn\u0027t get to see the latest one then that front end could return a consistency proof between the sth the client requested and sth the latest stage it knows about and the lightest st agent knows about so the client can sort of have a smaller delta to check consistency for but it actually complicates the client implementation and the benefits I think isn\u0027t entirely clear so because that\u0027s something that the client can do themselves right like that they don\u0027t get they can just like retry so these were these suggestions to remove the sth from from these missed calls and I think Ben Lori indicated that he made it more convincing about those so I guess there will be like a discussion on the list consolidation of the two separate endpoints which like this just like two separate luck HTTP calls right now or methods and there is already like a different parameter that says if it\u0027s a pretty certificate or so difficult being submitted so I think that\u0027s very sensible the last one about the best when practice is 190 which I think as far as I understand says you should advertise the your eyes in the directory so there is like one endpoint the client for is to get directory design is which each service what the the was right here all right and I think that it is not lickable for six and six degrees because the client already has a decent amount of metadata about the look like the contest to know like the looks URL the key and a bunch of other parameters so service discovery i think is is of limited utility in that case thompson I think I raised this originally now I think you\u0027re interpreting the app basically one not in a very pessimistic way so a potential way to interpret 190 is to say that you have configuration for each one of these endpoints that you\u0027ve described that would work perfectly well you could say simply say that the configuration is required to identify all of the different your eyes that are used there\u0027s like five of them or something like that yeah get away with that and then you don\u0027t have to worry about basically 190 the way the document is currently structured it says / trans / v 1 is or p2 is a particular thing and that says to people operating these servers that they have to put "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:22",
    "text": "these resources in those locations and that\u0027s massively inconvenient for that could be massively inconvenient for some people obviously it\u0027s not particularly inconvenient for those people who have already implemented it because they don\u0027t really care but you\u0027re constraining the way that someone implements and deploys their service in a way that is unnecessary and so if you simply say that the configuration that a client needs to know about a particular log encompasses now a small set of your eyes you completely avoid all the problems with basically 190 and you ideally get a better outcome as well so either do suggest that the like specifically having to ask like the resources to be put under ctv too is part of the problem I very much a problem okay and so and they\u0027ve the resistance of doing a directory which is what a number of other protocols do is that that extra level of interaction means that you have the extra latency involved with using that love you know I don\u0027t actually subscribe to that notion particularly well because caching and various other things and you\u0027ve got a lot of extra latency anyway but if that is a concern then you can simply take the other part that I suggested okay yeah it\u0027s sort taking my half I\u0027m not a fan of bcp 190 in general I mean this you know I this is not a web application I\u0027m not concerned about namespace collisions I am concerned about latency but on the other hand I don\u0027t feel that strongly about it I mean it\u0027s about it you know it\u0027s you said it\u0027s massively inconvenient I think it\u0027s a lot it\u0027s a kind of subjective view of this one that yes different and what basically 190 says is don\u0027t say things about other people\u0027s spaces that you don\u0027t have to and you don\u0027t have to in this case now I\u0027ve offered to two solutions one of which you push back on fair the other one I think would probably work out yeah as I said I don\u0027t so issues like that yeah I don\u0027t feel really strongly about this i don\u0027t i don\u0027t love it but it\u0027s not that big a deal i I think PCP 190 is not something to feel strong about aa little pushback really got on on its on the general concept but okay we\u0027ve got somebody remote I\u0027m gonna hit the button and see if this works Andrew hi Andrew airfare speaking as a client implementing life the clap doing what Martin suggests would impose a lot of burden on us and one of the reasons that would have long said changes the URLs I uses how does how does the log you know notify monitors auditors people participate participating in gossip that they need to use a different URLs so this creates you know whole host of policy problems in the monitoring ecosystem and it just it doesn\u0027t really seem like it\u0027s difficult for server operator to have to know use not particular sub pass I mean they\u0027re all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "underneath they a root URL so I\u0027d be in favor of just keeping things as they are right now yeah so so my response to that would be um if it hurts do that and I can\u0027t imagine someone who\u0027s deployed a public blog that has numerous people depending on them is going to change where things can be accessed but I just ridiculous um you know I think well you know why you would suggested that that would happen alimony Google\u0027s so you\u0027re right this is subjective and we can only kind of like way things but my view is this is complexity for no reason because of google my opinion is that from practical standpoint is there no log implementers for requesting it we should not do it and from bcp 190 ideological purity perspective if you want to comply little bit we could just put double known in front of CTU levels and we\u0027ll pop with our lives Adam 90 Google we could also say in the chrome policy that yes you may configure it according to the RFC however you want if you want to be in chrome you will follow these parts I was going to also suggest that this is maybe something you should be shipped and iterate on speaking if it hurts don\u0027t do it like we don\u0027t we have some operational experience with CT now nobody has said it hurts maybe we continue to believe it doesn\u0027t hurt and then you know fix our bcp compliance later if they\u0027re can extend the protocol to add some discovery mechanism if it turns out to be necessary for a server Kate was so intent on I\u0027ll definitely follow up on that later okay the architecture architecture changes I think these were like the like the meatiest suggestions some of the Matisse additions are the one of them was a long separation for ICT and sth keys so I mean now like general like in theory the as far as I understand like the protocol doesn\u0027t really require like using the same key and you can definitely use different keys for verifying OCT one lender if Angus the edges we couldn\u0027t see like a clear benefit to doing that because like the way logs like City logs are implemented right now as distributed Systems means the front and jobs the ones that actually need to sign like an issue a city\u0027s get moved around between data same centers so it\u0027s not like they are tied to a specific a gsm and and there\u0027s like the signer sequencer jobs the ones that actually generate and grow the tree also move around between data centers again because we don\u0027t want like a single point of failure so they are not tied doing hsm as well so like the it there is no like a benefit to isolating one key but not the other so it\u0027s something we should we can describe and say that it can be done but probably "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "in the security considerations say why it doesn\u0027t have to be done this feels a little bit like saying you know you\u0027re worried about sharing he\u0027s around is a big deal because everyone sharing keys around already um yeah i still feel like a little sketchy about making that assumption into the into the protocol but I\u0027m okay like letting this be for now because it seems like again if we want to address this concern later if we have units and compromise incidents or something we want to go back and fight that more we could extend with some mechanisms to delegate authority for some part of the system to separate key in and fix it yeah i\u0027m looking at this yeah yeah i mean i think i like maybe like a better way to put it would be to say like the keys for cities and st agencies shame share the same properties i mean i agree that you don\u0027t want them like these keys like distributed like to idly and you want to like keep careful keep track of how they\u0027re on how they\u0027re being used but separating them is like maybe not beneficial because they sort of ultimately dissolution the same properties ok and then removing unnecessary restrictions on logs so there are two restrictions that were mentioned in this ticket one of them is about not imposing any conditions on retrieving or sharing data from locks which was is actually like a policy measure to make sure that data from box can always be obtained not necessarily necessary from a standard perspective so the suggestion was to change that must we should such that implementations that under some circumstances want to prevent data from acknowledged can do that but then the policy for the user agents for including these locks could say no you actually must allow Oh like an unrestricted access to the data that the log stores if you want to be included in the user agent I shape which i think i think is in simple that one was about verifying that the submitted set has a valid signature chained to the two accepted process anchor and that is in there most like for spam protection so that to actually like two is one is from protection and the second one is that in 6 and 6 to base the SCT the signature audacity covers the TBS certificate portion of the submission and the issuer key hush so that client sort of that the implication is that the log verified the submission makes sense and then and then like sign only the bits that that are interesting in that perspective it may still be okay to change the two issued but but at the very least we should I to explain like whites there and why it\u0027s like what are the what are the reasons for keeping in there and yeah maybe change it to shoot i\u0027m not entirely sure about about that one incorporating new protocol mechanisms in Utila client section so this was about so the right now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:24",
    "text": "sequences to this is very heavy on unless it is right it says like when you should validate as it is but actually we can ship embedded inclusion proofs and the protocol should say that if you have like an embedded inclusion proof and an sth then you might as well verify the whole thing so i think this perspective should also be provided like threaded throughout the document now two more issues around architecture one of them is having the entire stages of story of the log accessible to clients so similar to get entries or you can just get all the entries from the log have guetta stages and it guided allows you to get all the stages from the log and then if you had a signal sequence number 20 stages you can you can always like know which like which st edges sort of you need right which is the edges you can request so that i think would simplify al such like such a method and would still allow so the importance of this is that if monitors in particular can download all of the entries using the attend trees and keep in mind that each entry contains the timestamp of when it was incorporated and then can download all the st edges using guetta stages then each monitor can verify that each entry was incorporated within the MMD so having a record of both is is very useful for investigating actually that was one thing that we were missing when invade investigating an incident with one of the city logs that was I think he should like a stages for entries with slightly different order which means basically different trees and you couldn\u0027t get like the historic st edges to know exactly sort of when that and it started the last one about binding the set of artifacts the log is expected to produce we didn\u0027t get around to triaging yet which I don\u0027t quickly like to briefly describe the motivation I don\u0027t think I\u0027ll get into it but I think your perspective will be useful yes you have eating it to discuss as well because it\u0027s the media story I think um the idea here is that right now we you know a log is expected to produce and an inclusion proof but consistency proofs between any two country heads and inclusion proofs from any entry to any tree head and the observation here is just that that latter part introduces an unnecessary degree of freedom which greatly expands the set of artifacts long as expected to produce which greatly reduces the cash ability of the system they like cash abilities important both for scalability reasons but also for privacy reasons um because if you look at things like the CT / DNS proposals that have been made those are relying on cash hits for the privacy properties they\u0027re giving so so the degree that we can reduce the variation in what a log effective produce and what clients are expected to query for you get a better cache hit rate in a better privacy currency so I think the the upshot on the document for this is probably going to be is I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:24",
    "text": "expected what we would get to is to say that a log instead of producing being required to produce a an included improved from any entry to it to any tree head would be required to produce an inclusion proof from an entry to a tree head of its choice and then a consistency proof from the tree head of its choice to the tree had the client likes so your your assumption is that the president the client has some has some tree had that it knows about and it wants to meet inclusion group to that and so your and surprisingly require you to produce the log to produce inclusion group that tree head and what you\u0027re saying instead is to produce a to produce a two-piece proof 12 sthu this choice in a second and a sec this is you proof to another sset of the client requested correct that\u0027s me reasonably mate I think they\u0027re basically to relying party models on the table one in which you maintain one SCT and what you cash a bunch of s cts aren\u0027t sorry my s th s basically try and catch the entire sth history of the log in that light in the latter model all you care about is the inclusion proof and purifying that\u0027s in your in your history in the latter mutton in the former model where you catch one as th you care about getting consistency and so I think the yep in this model the client has some kind of skip list of HDFC just confident about that\u0027s wife asking to that can people try and talk more into the mic resurface to remote participation 02 I don\u0027t mind me I\u0027m just trying to confirm my and sunny as well this is a compatible superset right now because right now but the server could say here\u0027s an inclusion proof up yes but your sisters and the client doesn\u0027t ask about any particular no it does so the server can say here\u0027s an inclusion proof up to the sth that you said and therefore the sth consistency proof is not yes yes okay rizal worth it it\u0027s not required to but any existing log can be trivially changed to implement this by using that method what right super sets but yeah anyway yes sir richard i guess i\u0027m not sure if this is in the air out of this i\u0027m not sure if this is in the agenda at some point but at one point we talked about the the people who are producing this skip list would like to know which one the lord with like is there some description is there some because that happens work well on requires that the people produce the people disseminating the sth is to trust the clients knowing which one\u0027s the law would prefer to produce to so is that somehow cover here yeah that\u0027s the idea of number 163 here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:25",
    "text": "to say there is a list of kind of blessed sths so that doesn\u0027t address the question of which sth the log would like for a given certificate forgiving entry um it just it that at least limits the space to say these are the tree heads you need to care about if you want to address the history of the law so yeah if you want to address the make it predicts what we just th the log them like forgiven certificate that would need something else that\u0027s not covered in this change that I\u0027m just trying to fact that the model I think people are their heads which is some people have which is that the the there\u0027s some mechanism for getting a set of blessed sths which you out of bamboo lemur cool and um and then you\u0027re going to go with your the datas mechanism and say please feed me a proof after one of those right and I\u0027m just trying to make sure like it that has to be how that happen efficiently be nice if if you if you could create one for love with lights to give you that was for a heads will be cashing the obvious thing would be to require you add an additional requirement here that the sth you use in your inclusion proof is the proximal sth if the next one that the first one that covers the certificate in question that seems reasonable to me and probably the way I would implement it are going about this but um interesting one of this thing yes I think I think it\u0027s useful to describe these this um the system but it\u0027s which I don\u0027t mind like one of the things I mean for is to make sure that six and six TB scan can be used to implement like City logs with the same like mindset or same approach that six and six to currently allows you and enable that as well so I think ideally the protocol will allow you will have like the knobs to 20 you to do both and then describe that particular approach like how to how to select or how to bless st edges right and then the requirement for for inclusion proof soft up to one of these blessed stages and other considerations about cashing in I think it\u0027s like documented wheels on top of this ad online google so eka I think I don\u0027t think we need in the protocol to come up with like a way to distinguish some subset of tree heads if the clients just ask for inclusion proofs to the like the closest tree head afterwards then the server just like with caching and so forth can figure this out and so it just should naturally work well I\u0027m if the client has some some subset of heads that it\u0027s happy with right and it\u0027s it knows like the timestamp of the search but it should be in and so it says what\u0027s the next sth along and tell the ask the server like give me a path to that and then just if all the clients do this just with caching it just works so I\u0027m not sure so I guess say that let it let\u0027s assume the sth is our number by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:26",
    "text": "integers and so what happens if um so I guess what happens if on firefox decides to do the New York to see all 1000 and chrome besides that he\u0027ll see what 1,000 before then we will disagree about those and you won\u0027t get one right I think yes and that\u0027s correct i think you\u0027ll get most of what you like you might have different ones for different clients but you know you\u0027d have a handful alternatives that might be okay on our now I guess this maybe I think that the real problem is that what\u0027s motivating this from our perspective is a desire to eventually all the servers to feed a complete inclusion to clients and for that every quiet houston-base ever accept the same house it has to check whether the same place so hey that\u0027s private whether that\u0027s really the motivating case which you may think is a super motivating case but that\u0027s what anybody in case an s require a group that\u0027s quite a substantial thing isn\u0027t it having the service send for the proofs to the clients I mean I imagine I agree as possible but you\u0027re expecting all servers to do this no no I think it has to be coupled with the fetch mechanism arm but there I ain\u0027t it the there are reasons to believe that the knees mechanism may not provide exactly what you want in and out friday zakat is that the properties you want in various ways and and certainly the performance impacts on if you don\u0027t do that of course about it for the dns mechanism yeah i mean i think one of the reasons is this is a this is a hairball discussion because this represents a substantial change in the goals of what we\u0027re trying to do here and so it needs substantial discussion that i am a little concerned about the time and i want to make sure that we\u0027ve laid sufficient groundwork to be able to take a smart discussion to the mailing list I think we\u0027ve done that I think what I might propose I think we\u0027ve got a separate issue here an additional issue about making it predictable which sthu would address we\u0027re given in Gentry I would propose that Iran and I will talk talk it through will make a PR and we\u0027ll have some discussion list okay that\u0027d be fantastic thank you that\u0027s part of me as well okay so that I think that\u0027s almost at the end there are two issues which were on which we didn\u0027t have a consensus I stopped short of putting like photo of bike in a shed here use of like low godís should use Y Diez or in 32 we and separately the IDS specified that refer the identified extensions which which should have come from an animated registry or are they once the current evar okay I\u0027ll just leave it at that and yeah I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:30",
    "text": "generally like the way for it is like what we\u0027d like to do is assuming again like the chairs are okay with us making more changes to this document yeah I mean I think we\u0027re at the point where we need to you know we want to produce something useful so yeah okay so yes under the assumption will probably like right up Laura fication suggestions for the things we think is a good idea and bring it up like each of them to the list to make sure that there is consensus and then hash out like the few remaining disagreements and I said like my suggest needs to have like am a separate document describes like the different of city that provides extra no guarantees describes exactly how you choose stages what the comments from the servers are and this sort of thing but I guess we\u0027ll see about that one missions okay thank you very much i mean i know that\u0027s been a tremendous amount of work over the past few weeks and it\u0027s much appreciated but there\u0027s more work tremendous amount of work yet to be done um okay i Sabbah here yeah okay great you\u0027re up I weren\u0027t oh right right we\u0027re moving on to the privacy and redaction section on saavn scott another close one there we go okay thanks saris life-changing I am oh great all right I might bother you a lot okay yeah I did a lot of heads but we\u0027ve got about 15 okay so i should book it all right so hi guys I\u0027m Saba um I want to talk to you guys about some some work I did with the the applied crypto group at Stanford recently um and so what I\u0027m going to talk about you can read about in our paper it\u0027s on the archive I think I sent a link to it to the mailing list but so the things that the paper includes on the next slide and we have some ideas for redaction how we can get private sub domains in CT and then some ideas about privacy preserving proofs that a log has excluded an SCT and then we have some other discussions about privacy compromises and ideas about how CT and portlet certificates can be made to work together but I\u0027m only going to focus on the the first couple things a light on the next slide yeah so if you want to read more about this or about the other things you can look at the paper so i\u0027ll jump right into the the redaction idea so yeah so the problem of reduction I think we\u0027re all familiar with we don\u0027t want to have private domain names on the wall so ideally any any secret facebook com type domain wouldn\u0027t appear on the log so on the next slide we have a example of what you want we want this to be hidden um or I think we would content ourselves if on the next slide we just redact the the secret portion so the idea that i\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:30",
    "text": "going to talk about it achieves this where if you have a domain name with some redacted sub domain as a part of it we can redact that part of the domain I think it\u0027s a very simple and effective idea that you\u0027re going to like so the tool we\u0027re going to use is called a commitment and the commitment is kind of the crypto equivalent of having a lock box so if you want a commitment in lock box you put something inside and then you lock it and then you give it to somebody and they can\u0027t see what\u0027s inside the box but you also since you put something in the box you can\u0027t change it so commitment is kind of a digital version of the same thing so when you have like some number or some information that you commit to and then you send it off to some other party the other party\u0027s not able to see what it is that you\u0027ve committed to but later on when you reveal the commitment you have no option but to reveal what you originally committed to so in this sense the commitment has a hiding property that what\u0027s in a commitment is is hidden from whoever looks at the commitment but it also has a binding property that once you commit to something you can\u0027t equivocate later and change your mind and say no I commit to something else you\u0027re kind of forced to to commit to what you to reveal what you committed to um I said that quickly other any questions about what a commitment is no great so the way that we build these yeah you can just skip through all of those okay maybe want that the way that we build these is is straightforward um it\u0027s just like you can do this with hashes so the idea is to build the commitment is if you have a message do you want to commit then you take some randomness that\u0027s like the commitment the key equivalent and then you hash the the message concatenated with the randomness and then the output is the commitment this gets around the problem of like a dictionary attack on just hashing because now to do a dictionary attack you not only need to guess the input but you need to guess all the randomness as well so the way that we\u0027re going to use this to do redaction is um when a domain owner issues a request for certificate to the CA it\u0027s going to send the all the information needed to make the certificate but it\u0027s also going to send a version of the domain name with the secret components redacted by using a commitment as well as the randomness that you need for the commitment and then when the CA sends a message to the log on the next slide um all it sends is the pre certificate with the domain name that\u0027s the redacted version so we get on vlog eventually if you go to the next slide is just the the redacted version with the secret sub domain hidden and then the the domain owners name listed publicly and the SCT would get the that that same information so just have the redacted domain in it so finally when you get to the certificate on the next slide um the certificate is going to include the actual domain name as well as the redacted SCT and the opening of the SCT so when a client gets this certificate all they need to do is on the next slide they\u0027re going to ya when they request the page then they get the certificate back on the next slide and sorry I\u0027m doing then on the next slide the they just need to verify that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:32",
    "text": "the commitment component of the SCT actually corresponds to the the the thing that the certificate is purportedly for so if you have some commitment to secret facebook com you need to make sure that the sut included is actually for secret facebook com and not for some other some other site that\u0027s somewhat trying to pass off as being for secret facebook com um so on the next slide we briefly discussed security of this so the those two questions that come to mind for security one is how is a monitor still going to do its job if we have redaction I think this is a kind of a general reduction question um but the idea here would be that if you know how many entries there are from like Facebook you can look and see hey there\u0027s you know we thought there would be 16 entries for facebook there are 17 entries from facebook something is clearly wrong here or I mean if you have knowledge of the individual s cts you could if you know the randomness you can kind of check them one by one as well um also the another natural question is why can\u0027t a malicious site or CA um using that we use an SCT that\u0027s already on the log and this is prevented by the hiding for the binding property of the commitment yeah so this needs to make the life a lot worse for the site operator books when he discovers a problem up here but he\u0027s effectively a parity problem now he has several investigating right when there\u0027s a parody problem so we discovered so the set operator you know I have five fifty thousand certificates to my site which is not like crazy pants right and now I discover that their 50001 certificates and now what I did because my problem is that I don\u0027t know whether there\u0027s some suction my organization which like is issuing certificates on boats to me which is actually quite likely or whether it\u0027s or weather like this is this an attack so how do i resolve that problem i see so um I guess one way to do it is if you if you\u0027re concerned about segments of the organization we could have more granularity in terms of like what what levels of sub domain is a secret and what level is not but that\u0027s not a that\u0027s not a complete solution either right I have basically its food up Missoula or barred on the solar or gossip is all that org and you know so the region i have right as I\u0027ve got like basically you know you know like most the organization is like like doing with both of you and I got some support organization which getting stiff Achatz for those of the mains and I\u0027m somewhere that fact right right I don\u0027t think it\u0027s about parity or even about count right if you\u0027re actually doing a proper monitoring Eugene need to know the certificates your organization has actually issued all of them and your Union look at the stuff that\u0027s in the logs and compare what\u0027s in the logs with all of us or search the Domino I think I know all and then when I see a new one right disco I see a new one and it\u0027s surprising and then what I do is I go on and try to investigate it and I say oh this is you know this this is damn dummies Oh Lord right 92 why Carl and I say you really issue this resist attack but this is I say this is so that\u0027s also goes my recourse I all see a sanity give "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:32",
    "text": "it doesn\u0027t know doesn\u0027t so the the if we go back a couple of slides the the key for the the commitment is going to be held by the site as well as by this yay so they can be put in the certificate if you want so um you could I guess you could call this day and you commit but also like Facebook would have the should have the D commitment yeah the zinger of misunderstandings I usually uncooperative or in some organizations issued certificates of my name it\u0027s actually totally happens so like you know so I don\u0027t know my problem is I have you know ten divisions and I don\u0027t know which division miss issued or actually properly issued and so how do I go ask them this is a real certificate or not so how do you do this one do not protect it and you see the certificate you know but we go over the main name in the me and generally is like is something is something kind of figure out like it says your project x blog my gonna say who\u0027s what who the hell is Project X blah and and I say oh that guy right or it\u0027s not and eventually I say like well then muscling this issue right um so really it\u0027s like really kind of very painful not have any idea who it is um so I mean I\u0027m not saying this is a non-starter but I\u0027m saying it\u0027s like not awesome is though I mean couldn\u0027t if that\u0027s your organizational policy and you don\u0027t plan on doing redactions then you could just say if it\u0027s redacted but you could this is an Orion no choice right are we willing to open ourselves up internally to this thing or are we going to say no one should be issuing redacted certs or than our condition because we do because we don\u0027t have the capacity to track people that understand they think that he wants well no but what I\u0027m saying is as an organization you have an opportunity you can say no one in our organization should issue protected starts and if you do issue redacted and she starts with redacted s cts then something\u0027s wrong you\u0027re out of company policy anyway and ever like yeah then you then you revoke those circus right i mean they never found out of this issue an offensive position which means our pub which means have a CA recourse problem and so I mean I guess look I\u0027m not I\u0027m sorry I\u0027d like this is like like like I was asking a simple question I have gotten out of hand um like uh you know I think I understand poverty is the system I\u0027m not saying please continue yeah this seems that you like a feature not a bug right so it puts a high cost of being able to use word action on the people who want to use redaction as opposed to fusing it across the whole look yeah but just a comment yeah I think it\u0027s kind of neat though nope I\u0027m sorry just was added I think that problem and I crazed I think exists in all of them in all the reduction schemes I know of yeah thanks man i think that was I think this is kind of a general thing about reduction but I\u0027m gonna javis crab so Victor dacovian says you could require a contact address in every legitimate certificate no that\u0027s also privacy leaky "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:39",
    "text": "I like me if we\u0027re making stuff up on the fly like we can say you must have a dns entry in your ECOD plus wrong with a public key in and blah blah the forum for making stuff up on the fly I\u0027m not I\u0027m not gonna I\u0027m gonna start a new topic how do you tell that you need to verify this thing that you need to verify that that you need that it that it is in the form that you described how would I tell by stone oh so how do you know that it\u0027s like this is a commitment versus this is actually like some weird string dot facebook com why I guess there has to be some flag or some indication the certificate that this is yeah I commit minute not Ben Schwartz jigsaw so is there a what happens if the unredacted certificate leaks and in particular does that create a problem for a CA who\u0027s committed to who\u0027s publicly stated that they will put all of their certificates into certificate transparency or is there how do we how do we combine this idea that all certificates generated go into the CT logs with this idea that that now actually only in this case half of them go into the CT box so I\u0027m not sure if I fully understood your question but I guess the idea is how if so if is certificate that has an SCT that\u0027s committed is leaked publicly then clearly everybody in the world knows that this redacted SCT is connected with this certificate because they\u0027ve shown up together yeah and I think this is a problem with redaction also in general like it when you get if you know if you get this SCT from the site and it\u0027s it\u0027s redacted then you can always go go public with it sure let me let me try a different version of this um if I\u0027m a customer of a CA and that CA has publicly committed to log all the certificates that it generates into the CT logs how do I tell it please generate this certificate for me but don\u0027t put it into the logs and in violation of your public commitment I promise that i\u0027m also going to register a commitment to this name and you will be able to log that and does not violate your commitment so you\u0027re saying that the so the commitment gets put on the log so the order that you had them in here i\u0027m not sure but if i\u0027m a customer of a CA yeah it seems to me there\u0027s a point at which i have to ask the ca to sign a certificate and not put that certificate into a certificate transparency log if they\u0027ve issued a press release that says I\u0027m going to put every certificate into the log then they\u0027re they\u0027re violating okay so how did why is it not um one thing I if if possible I\u0027d like to move the discussions of redaction more generally to the redaction more generally section this is providing background on one proposal yeah so I think um that\u0027s all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:40",
    "text": "I\u0027ve got on reduction I have more slides on this yeah that\u0027s so that\u0027s everything I have on reduction I was gonna ask if there\u0027s any questions but I guess we jumped ahead and we took care of that so the next thing I want to talk about is about proofs of phlogiston yeah I\u0027d like to do react is Clinton here yeah okay come back later yeah thank you okay so we obviously already have a lot of discussion topics i\u0027m going to go through this as quickly as possible so we can get to the good stuff this is basically just supposed to provide a background to make sure that we\u0027re kind of all on the same page as far as where redactions at where it\u0027s come from so we have kind of two general reasons for redaction that have been discussed in the past going back to my 2014 1 is for privacy one is for secrecy the topics we\u0027ve just discussed today it been folks around secrecy so privacy is something that has to do with kind of removing data from a log so it\u0027s already been entered into the log all of a sudden Nick it contains you know PII and you get a court order to remove it do we need to solve that technologically do we need to have a something that can actually remove an entry from the log or replace an entry in a log while still allowing that log to continue to be used I and I think the where it\u0027s kind of left off the discussion is left off is that this probably isn\u0027t something that we need to solve in the working group if ecosystem of an implementer CT can\u0027t rotate logs or can be agile and their trusted blogs then there\u0027s there\u0027s kind of bigger problems the only concern I think that you know we might want to address or discuss is that if a you know what the privacy concern was raised about a specific entry or that certificate was had an entry and all of the logs than an ecosystem used then that could be potentially catastrophic to the specific ecosystem but again that\u0027s really a i think a problem for the policy over the inner to solve so that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of privacy the second one is secrecy this is pretty certificate so this is just never entering some part of the actual certificate into the the CT log and this this is i think is general consensus is at least worth discussing or continuing to to figure out all of the the current "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:41",
    "text": "drafts as well as the discussions so the this 16 was in the current version even include this Rob\u0027s traveling\u0027s draft he has out the proposal that Peter put out on a list and then solids as well all kind of center around this idea of just preventing some data figuring out a way to have some data not included in the cert know the next slide so Peter Bowen put on the list I think a set of a base assumptions we kind of want to have what are the goals of redaction again this is for pre certificate redaction I think it\u0027s a good set of goals I updated it based on the discussion and the email list but if we kind of all agree that this is what we want redaction to do and this is these are like the things it needs to be able to do to be successful then I think we can have a good discussion if there are things that we you know disagree with here then I don\u0027t know hopefully there\u0027s consensus since this discussion already took place on the list I\u0027m working out of that assumption as well so we can go to the next slide so redaction was added in april 2014 it was to two forms of redaction domain name redaction so like like wasabi presented we\u0027re not including secret example calm at the time it was basically just replace any secret with private with the word private it yeah so and then the other one was named constrained intermediate CA so if the intermediate CA is is constrained to specific domains than anything issued by that CA on on those domains doesn\u0027t need to be included in the log itself and we\u0027ve had you know various updates occurred over the next two years and this 16 was kind of the next stage where this really came up again as a topic last year and there\u0027s a bunch of discussion at that time it still contained the same two basic versions or mechanisms for redaction domain labels and in constrained intermedia cas this added the idea of an extension you know like like what we discussed with Sabo we need to have some kind of mechanism identifying that you need to do a verification of the SCT versus certificate so Adam Everett acted labels extension but it was pretty complex for a TLS client to actually go through that verification process quiet decoding Andrey encoding a fair bit and it wasn\u0027t I it wasn\u0027t unique so you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:41",
    "text": "couldn\u0027t if you had a pre certificate it could theoretically match to multiple fall certificates this this version as far as I understand is what\u0027s currently implemented by semantic in some cases so they\u0027re they\u0027re logging redacted certs right now that use the mechanism described in this 16 so you know the next slide so this is as I understand the current three proposals or mechanisms that are that we want to discuss today one is this 17 and straddling a draft it updates the the redaction mechanisms a fair bit it uses a you know it still includes the main constraint CA and the domain labels it uses a redacted subject alt name extension so all these kinda have some common common threads with different names for them it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s quite a bit better for TLS client to implement a lot a lot less complex I don\u0027t know of any log operators that are actually implementing this the next one is solace I won\u0027t go into that one but savas is another version there\u0027s obviously some some similarities between that one and straddling strapped and then the next one is the one that Peter Bowen and Tara wheeler posted to the list just the other day this adds a pre certificate transformation extension it adds support for the first time for IP addresses in addition to DNS names and it\u0027s its current version is a pretty complex similar to this 16 but Peters working on on updating that and and making that more client family so I see Robin Peter on the on the call remotely so I don\u0027t know if we want to have them give some overview of where they are at with with their proposals or their ideas but we want to go back to the discussion that we were having with saba and kind of opened up discuss redaction at large and and how we want it to look how we wanted to function hopefully decide on its way forward here yeah we will short on time actually um so I\u0027m not sure about additional presentations on this on this topic on I think that if there are some immediate questions this would be a good time to do it but I do want to get to the next presentation within what time what time is it yeah within about four minutes yeah so should we just take this to the list based on the discussions that have been brought up very recently on shabbos proposal and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:44",
    "text": "Peter\u0027s proposal we can just continue those on the list and move from there yeah I mean it\u0027s going to be discussed on the list anyway so this is if you if somebody\u0027s questions that could go to the list take him to the list if there\u0027s something that would benefit from a face-to-face let\u0027s do it now this is dkg I just wanted to clarify the terminology your frame this discussion in or you have privacy versus secrecy the privacy really seems to be more about toxic data and might be something that is relevant after something has already been entered into the log in a non redacted form and I don\u0027t think any of these address the toxic data questions that right so yeah the question is whether we need to solve that technologically for instance if I\u0027m an implementer I can just say okay you run a log and toxic data was submitted we\u0027re going to no longer trust that log now you can do whatever you want with it blow it away you know get rid of it so do we need to have a technological solution to removing toxic data all right look it wasn\u0027t one way you could do this it\u0027s just run multiple experiments have everybody write this up as experimental wraps gather implementation and deployment experience and so go from there right well there imeem there yes but there\u0027s there are people doing redacted doing with action now semantics and it is something that is kind of course true to what we\u0027re doing so I\u0027m not sure that we wanted puns on this too much that\u0027s her Wes article USC so you know the problem I see with this is you\u0027re taking a fairly simple solution that was designed to make sure that everything is always published and then you\u0027re trying to figure out ways how to not publish stuff in it or two published up with a secret and and you\u0027re going to take this simple system and make it you know like incredibly come is trying to deal with reaction and trying to deal with you know privacy and you\u0027re going to get into issues of well how do we solve offline dictionary attacks to these types of things you\u0027re going to get into issues of well okay but I you\u0027re right I did not you know produce this entry in my log or I produce this private entry my log because example.com told me to even though they really didn\u0027t so then you get into he said he should kind of comments and the reality is that you know the notion of certificate transparency was to be open and honest and we\u0027re now inserting ways that\u0027s going to break those conversations in the future I think that\u0027s definitely a valid concern going back to some of the assumptions that Peter set out we do have to acknowledge that things like DNS split-horizon and private name server delegation exist so there\u0027s you know basically there\u0027s public certs used privately but is that something that we you know would need to address with CT okay thank you very much appreciate it and of course it will be much more discussion on the mailing list next up is the discussion of logging binaries I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:47",
    "text": "think yeah I don\u0027t think about yeah hello everyone its pressure from Maui I think this is a topic but maybe I\u0027ll keep silent for some time and now we we try to print again and the whole point is that we want to based on be based on the the city pro a mechanism to do the software distribution monitoring and auditory so is the key point is how to extend the current city protocol to do this work okay so so we want to use this extension protocol to log in the software binary codes oh it\u0027s a type OS digest so because some sometime the software provided to not want to want to you know and there are some license restriction or they want to make sure to in the air lock in they are the lock content on the lock tree so that\u0027s why maybe sometimes we use this digest so no logging these informations can bring some benefits I think this benefits are very similar to the teaching benefits so it can associate k enable anyone to monetary and audio deter the software provider activity so if if they do the mystic miss distribution if it\u0027s something legal software provider to distributor the the some software okay and we can also find a back door of the distributed software and also we can because there are a lot of locks there and we can compare the lock the lock forced for the same software in different locks so maybe it can also help us to find some progress okay it\u0027s very similar to the city for the certificate the monitoring okay next page and so how to do these things so the just like what I said we just simply extended just simply extend current city locking mechanism so so what we would do we extend firstly we need to lock the software binary codes or is digested into this more Croce moco tricky mussoorie more country okay and instead of the tis server certificate and also when we log it and the the Sangha the same time step is about the binary code okay and and so based on this based on this idea we also need to do some extension to the current Samsung some data structure of the marquetry of the lock system such as we need to devise a new type trans I turn a new market released and a new SPT definition and also we need to extend the Sun current "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:48",
    "text": "or certificate transparency message process of the input output output permits a budget the other things are a totally the same with a CT protocol another page okay an actual real informing pages I listed all the changes or other extensions to current the city protocol and so today is about the new binary transparency log entry actually the the main point is that here we have the scientist software attributes in this entry it\u0027s a binary code or its is going to digest and under it and is capable either in the CMS format this this object included the software and it\u0027s in nature and dancing shoes and other informations that can be described as the software okay next page and and I think I think in the Union foster presentation about the base protocol there are some there will be some changes updated so here I can that means that my my craft where r follow the the base drafts of update such as maybe the the new type of being estimating with proof computing mood right yeah and buttered because my currently drafting is based on the on the older version of just yeah so that\u0027s a song new enumeration type of order for the structure of the of the law okay and a next page and also this is about the new moco tree leaves the main difference is that here we this is not a certificate information this is about the software binary code information and it\u0027s a it\u0027s a data structure of of weight defined in the previous page about the binary code entry right okay and the next page and the the the the the the signs a timestamp and we have digital signed on the object on the iTunes okay and this thing these are the two new updated our messages why is how we add a new binary code entry into the certificate lock so there are some new inputs and outputs and I do not want to go into too much details and about another wise how to get the log entries from the from the tree and also there are some extension to them so if you are interested please to agreed the document thank you and I think that\u0027s all and yeah I think I can follow the latest update of the piece "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:49",
    "text": "paint mythical draft and do this work yeah your emissary google so one question is about preventing log spam right so insignificant furnace it\u0027s very easy to only accept submissions that makes sense because just check signature chain here you also allow a condition correctly logging of just the hashes of of the software rather than like the full binary so how do you how do you make sure that you only get valuable submission and not just like random hashes huh yes good point i think uh i think i see i think this year problem we can\u0027t agree with just a very straight folder to extend at the city city protocol and we have the software harsh we have the issue and the and the under the software providers public key use this information to find the software provider and the lock but maybe you\u0027re not yeah yo your provides on your problem yeah in this yeah so I\u0027m really glad to see this is work in the space of binary transparency oh i\u0027m richard barnes um recently of mozilla um so I that\u0027s us going and one of the things I worked on when I was one of the last things I worked on was all a few weeks ago um was getting a basic binary transparency scheme set up there um so you might take a look at that as an antecedent because okay that scheme is just hacked on top of certificate transparency so instead of having putting the binary directly into the log that scheme takes a digest of the binaries you want to log and codes that into a domain name if she gets a cert with that they may name in log that to CT okay so yeah he\u0027s another way yeah you can hack this on top of CT it\u0027s a little sketchy I admit yeah and it gets the job done you can ask a question about why did you choose to do that rather than using like trillion their son you know it\u0027s doing the general transparency stuff that coming on Google oh okay I guess that answers why yeah because there\u0027s running code okay we could just do it um so I think it is worth thinking through how you could do it more directly but without these extra layers but um yeah so just want to point out this from yessum some yeah within these costs maybe we can I think that the plan that Mozilla has talked about is to start publishing this way and start verifying in the Firefox updater that things have been logged in this place so there\u0027s will hopefully be seen running code in a nonzero amount of time would Mozilla be interested in something that\u0027s coming out of the standards space I am no longer representing facilities all these SMI she\u0027s cool so this is dkg so i\u0027m happy that this work is going on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:50",
    "text": "there\u0027s also work going on outside of the ITF on binary transparency there\u0027s been some discussions that are not moving very fast but between different free software distributions in particular so debian and freebsd and pi PI and the npm repositories have talked about this and the in those discussions the we breach i think a different set of conclusions than the direction that you\u0027re heading with this draft so i want to know want to follow up with you more on that this off list but in particular there\u0027s a question about the logs the logs banish you and ensuring the identity and version of the software is a critical component of the laws because that\u0027s what unique in order to be able to do the review and it\u0027s not clear to me that we have that clearly enough in that in the patterns length yes yeah mountain Thompson um Mozilla but I don\u0027t actually have an answer the question yes we would look on it favorably and echo will happen answer the question I got up to ask was you\u0027ve got the equivalent of an SCT here is that really necessary there\u0027s a lot of machinery associated with that and it\u0027s possible and I don\u0027t know how to deliver one of those with the binary necessarily in a way that would be consumed by someone actually executed so I suspect that when you what you want to do is drop that from any specification and simply wait until you get the the next sta I can wait that long if I\u0027m shipping software Adam agni Google similar to dkg I wanted to emphasize the point of binding transparency as I understand it is to make sure that you aren\u0027t given some magical backdoored single special-purpose binary but if all the log contains is like the shower hash of some lump of machine code that\u0027s not really useful it needs to be tied into things like verifiable builds and like source trees or it needs to be like the whole binary and you need to have not too many versions Richard is shaking his head at me maybe I misunderstandings so so I think it\u0027s absolutely it\u0027s absolutely case that sorry erihskroy so first of all I think is the case in an ideal world this is time to verifiable builds on verifiable is ensure that that generally this thing you\u0027re distributing matches the source code people can examine on the purpose from the reason we did this episode on preparing his parents at all is we is if we\u0027re willing to commit that we\u0027re going to ship this many releases then we tied it and we tie the binaries of the police\u0027s then you can verify that it when you got 51.1 that\u0027s the same 31.1 info on all scales which is better than nothing but not as good as what you\u0027re saying yeah so that\u0027s that\u0027s good too but some something in that vein I think is necessary yeah every scroll up first all clock with my mozilla had on and then take my his all head often my 80 head on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:50",
    "text": "but I only have one hat so um so from Missoula perspective on the reason why we did the hack that were describing is because it works today and so we\u0027re able to take advantage of existing log infrastructure and therefore we were able to have that value today so thank you to google and company providing that um so we would be interested in if there were a someone someone willing to run or something set of people willing to run a log buyer conspiracy log that we could then what they use we would Peterson using that I don\u0027t think we wouldn\u0027t be interested in using what influence a new protocol that was not tied to anybody operating a loss in size of the value right so so that respect so my question would be is is in fact they\u0027re going to be enough people willing to run a binary spesial want to make that work did something i\u0027ll actually occur on now with the head off on on this seems to be a long ride representing it this used to be out of charter scope for this working group on and so um I and soon as we my working group do it is it now and you can they surely k the rechargeable first even quits extending the Charter are specifically these kind of purposes so that was a lizard\u0027s during the initial territory but it would have to put it right and I guess um I wonder Stan the scope of the work before you determine where their new working groupers mediator or where there was in scope for this working group for some future generations working great rich sauce yeah I think this kind of thing is useful I look at attribute certificates which don\u0027t have a key but they have a place to put other attributes like they like a digest of the thing is and then the person who signed the attribute is the software publisher yeah so I\u0027m address the spare miss you would also get identity issue yeah Phil Han Bakic emotive one of the things that comes to mind is that if you want somebody to run log we do actually have some code signing infrastructure and his problematic in that every plant it\u0027s not just every CA does different things every platform that we support for code-signing has a different way of doing things and signs different things and that sometimes you\u0027re assigned executable sometimes it\u0027s the package that installs sometimes it\u0027s installer and I think that probably if we\u0027re going to do something rather than just do the CT transparency thing I\u0027d rather see a working group look at how to decode sign properly across the board this and the other reason I\u0027d like to do it slightly it separately is when people are mentioning attribute certificates which I\u0027m afraid they gave me the screaming heebie-jeebies I I would like to get away from asn.1 as we saw in that other slide is and one really is evil I\u0027d rather not build yet more crud on top of yet okay we\u0027re going to cut the line after dinner Frank Akamai just two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:54",
    "text": "seconds a few comments that have been made here that one I think this is really valuable work too it is dubiously in scope for this working group and that three there is going there is probably enough work to be done on support infrastructure connect this practical practical to to merit for knopf another working group ok I\u0027d actually argue that the question of the mechanics of code signing is totally orthogonal to this we\u0027re talking about arbitrary binary blobs here and we aren\u0027t you know we aren\u0027t assuming anything about the internal structure of these blobs so you know the question is if we\u0027ve got a blob of data how do we how do we log it so so that is actually different from the motivational side that Franklin is talking right Frank stalks is suggesting that the goal of this is just is to ensure that you\u0027re not running some random version of code that isn\u0027t being done issues that you need something more than just random binary clock yeah it implies you need at least identifier for a product and there is not yeah but those are not those do not assume anything about the signing mechanism a date that\u0027s right yeah so um anyway I you know the main things that we wanted to ask a couple of questions about this number one is their interest in seeing this work go forward in the ITF even if it doesn\u0027t happen here huh if yes hum if no okay so this interest in this work um second question is about the applicability of this draft or the appropriateness of this draft for adoption by somebody so hum if yes this is a suitable draft for using as a basis for this work okay hum if it\u0027s not a suitable basis for the work okay yeah okay thank you that that helps clarify some stuff okay um is there anything else afraid we don\u0027t have time to go back to savas additional discussion but all right thank you and we\u0027ll see you on the mailing list oh that was interesting reshoots "
  }
]