[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "so next session hello good morning for those who are remote good afternoon good evening appreciate everyone being here physically and online we have some nice participation in the room and some nice participation remote please let us know if there's any audio problems for those who are remote want to make sure uh everyone can participate equally okay can you hear me all right let's try again is that good hopefully everyone online can hear me as well i was saying we have good participation in the room and remote we're going to try to make it very equitable for all so if there's any problem uh please uh please type in the chat um for those in the room we are gonna try to use the um the online tool there's uh you can scan the qr code so we're going to try to manage the uh queue integrated between remote and local i'm lou berger with pavon birham my co-chair and luis contreras here helping out all in the room it's very nice to be back uh well we have our note well it's the first uh meeting for me at the this ietf i didn't participate in anything yesterday so i'll mention it this is uh uh our rules for participation basically everything you say and do here becomes part of our record if you're not familiar with the notewell please go look at it at the the link right off the ietf page"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "in the past we've been asked to remind the working group about how we treat each other and to make sure we treat each other professionally and with respect we have we weren't asked to say at this time but we thought it's a good uh habit to keep reminding the working group i've already talked about us being online and uh also in person and that we're going to be managing the queue if you don't know how to get the the tool uh go to the qr code that's on the backs of several uh of the chairs or go online and you can find it at the the agenda um i think we've probably hit all of these things already with the exception of the the note taking we are doing collaborative note-taking as we generally do um the please jump on uh the link and that's shown here and i'll drop it into chat in just a moment or someone else will for me and help make sure that what we say here is accurately captured you don't need to capture what is being presented just the discussion around the slides and around the topics we have a pretty packed agenda so i'm going to keep going forward so you know we're here to produce documents so this gives us a little bit of a taste of where we are we don't have any new rfcs but we do have one in queue so that's great thanks for all who contributed to that we have a couple of documents that are post last call the first one uh there was a bit of technical change during the last call and it hasn't hit the level of saying we need a second last call but it's hit the level where we want to give people ample time to respond to it i know i have one comment that i personally haven't gotten to and i promise i'll get to it this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "week but if everyone can take the opportunity of being here this week take a look at it uh adrian's here he's the editor if you have something you want to discuss corner him or just send it to the list um the pcc use cases uh that's been around for a while that is uh should be uh submitted soon we also have uh several documents that have gone through adoption recently and one of them we're going to talk about later we did receive one incoming liaison it is somewhat interesting they are not asking for any response but it is worth noting that it came in and take a look at it and see what this other sdo is doing in areas we are working on not surprising it's on slicing as always we remind you that we continue our working remote working in hybrid mode uh we have working group resources that are available to anyone in the working group if you're interested just contact the chairs if you when you send it to the alias it'll hit the three of us and we can take action on it and uh just as always it's good to remind everyone of our ipi rpr process one of these years we'll remove new step we've had that new step now for a few years so we should not call it new but and with that i think we're going to move to the next slot good morning uh can folks at the back hear me okay can i get a thumbs up for from the folks at the back if you can hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "okay i'm pawan biram i'm your other co-chair uh before i start walking you through the working group document status let me thank our working group secretary lewis for collating all the status reports and putting the slide deck together next slide we have 26 working group documents they're all listed here there are three documents that are colored in blue here that that are on the agenda today there's one the gm plus extensions for shared mesh production that's in the rfc 8sq that leaves us with 22 documents and the status of all those 22 documents are covered in this deck that includes the four documents that we just adopted and also the two for which we successfully completed last call in recent weeks given the packed agenda i will not be going through the status of each and every one of these documents but i will uh however double click on a select few which we believe needs some immediate attention uh so let's start with slide number three this is the act and performance monitoring document this is getting ready for last call but the authors have stated that they have run into some issues with respect to xml validation and are seeking some help from the working group uh authors if you can elaborate a bit more on what is the kind of help you're looking from the working group that you you will be able to find some volunteers to help you with that if this is a young tooling issue you may want to reach out to the young doctors or the netmod working group uh so drew or any of the authors here in this room would you like to add to what is what i just said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "uh thanks pawan uh the only thing that i would like to say is like anybody who has a good setup already especially somebody who's using t models a way we run into issues was not in our model but in the other models that we were importing so if other model authors who have already done this setup if they can provide help that would be the best thanks ro if anybody wants to volunteer to help through please reach out to him can we go to slide number seven please this is the enhanced vpn framework document this has been around for some time there hasn't been any new revision made to this uh since the last session uh but the authors have indicated that this is uh about one editorial rev away from uh uh from them uh requesting working group last call so please do give this document a thorough read and review it uh in anticipation of a working group last call uh in the coming weeks uh can we go to slide eight this is the gmpls controller interwork document um there hasn't been any changes to this document since the last session uh from the status report of of the last session it doesn't seem like there are any open issues either so the question that we have for the authors is are there any pending items that you would like to take care of before this can be considered for working with last call is there any author in the room or or remote who would care to chime in on this uh healing yeah this is in i think we finished most of the work for this contribution and we are requesting the working group to review the document thank you okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "can we go to slide uh 10 please uh this is the idf network slices document uh as you all know this forms the basis for uh several of the work several of the documents that are currently being discussed in our working group uh adrian is saying that we are ready for last call there have been uh several changes made to the document since the last session so please do take your time give it a thorough read and review it in anticipation of a last call in the coming weeks if you do have any more changes to propose it's not too late please do take this opportunity and i'm sure adrian would be happy to comply can we go to slide 16 please this is the t service mapping young document um in the report that drew sent there is a comment at the bottom which says that this is currently blocked by the essa policy young document the essa policy young document which was adopted in spring hasn't been updated in a while i think drew did bring that up on the spring mailing list and there was a response from kamran who holds the pen that he would get to it soon from the service mapping point of view all you need is some sort of a reference to the underlay tunnel or the policy onto which the service is mapped this could be a direct reference so all you need is a key for the policy or it could be some sort of an indirect reference where you use color or some tag to uh do the mapping so this should be a fairly straightforward dependency and through i'll i'll work with you and come around in the next few weeks and get this sorted this shouldn't take too long"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "can we go to slide number 19 please we took a couple of young documents to last call in recent weeks we haven't closed on them yet this is the first of the two this is the path computation young document there were several comments that were raised during last call um there's one revision uh containing the changes that for the items that have been addressed on the list that should go in uh this week as i've been told there are still a few pending items and those should follow up in another revision shortly um the plan is to have a a follow-up working working group last call maybe a short working group last call to give the working group uh sufficient time to review the latest set of changes next slide uh actually go to slide 23. this is the young te document again this is in the same boat as the previous one rev 30 was published to address several comments that were raised during last call there are still some pending items the one sticky issue is with respect to management of identities there are a couple of suggestions uh more than one at least where a certain was made to have ayana managed uh identities module um they this is turning out to be a bit complex for certain scenarios it's a bit impractical as well so the others are trying to figure out ways to address this so once this item is resolved there should be another revision coming out and like with the last one the expectation is that we'll have a short working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "last call for the working group to review the latest set of changes um that's all we have in this slide deck any any questions on any of the working group documents not just the ones that i just covered i don't see anybody rushing to the mic so we can move on to the next slot can you hear me uh yeah we can uh can you change i mean you should be able to uh move move the slides by yourself i'm looking for some control i don't see any control to move the slide one second no i don't have control for the slides just keep going i'll change okay okay so i'm intel busy for away i'm presenting on behalf of kotors this new draft uh proposes some updates to the itft types which are the final c8776 next slide pleaser okay some background okay what we needed the word discussed uh was that we need to do some tiny update to the itft type-c module which has been already published in rc8776 to support some of the changes on on the t tunnel model or under documents which are really for working group plus caller at this moment in time what we need is just to define a new type death and a new grouping not that much and we were discussing uh during last uh meeting what is the best approach to move forward with such a small update we had some um issues with going for a complete"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "rfcbs and we got some suggestion which we follow and we ask you that option we got that adoption but we get some comments uh we got some technical concern on the need for a common grouping the describing coding switching time and different opinions were raised during the process approval during the approval on the process somebody was in favor of updating the rsc like we proposed in the rafter other were more in favor of obsoleting usc 8776 and to go with a complete visa and and the third option was also to define a new a new model which just provided the additional elements another issue we got uh there are a few uh post-working group production comments one is to move some of the identities from the itf t module into the te types is some of the proposal for addressing the working group let's call comments on the itft yeah model there was some comments from the on the photo identifier and i received the comments from ayana they did an early review and they agreed they proposed some changes to the to the session next slide please okay the first issue is the technical comment on the encoding switching types the comment was basically why do we need a common grouping which because we don't know whether we need to have a common definition for switching and encoding uh for all the these modules that will be developed in the future um the opinion uh is that well the pac combination rpc has a strong requirements to be aligned with a tea tunnel model there were long extensive discussion at the beginning of the work that everybody agreed on the importance of keeping alignment between the detailed model and the computational piece structure we initially copied the definition from the coding switching type from the tnl model and immediately went out of sync because there was a change done on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "mother so the grouping in young is being defined to avoid this problem [Laughter] everybody hello hello uh hi atala we're having a little trouble hearing you if you can try repeating the last few a few sentences i think will be okay yeah okay thank you um okay i say that the uh the the can you hear now okay okay the grouping is already defined and the proposal is to move it in t types to make it available to anybody who needs to use it the microphone is that there is no major if you keep the grouping as it as it is today we are causing the problem to somebody in the future which may need to implement just this grouping and we'll need to implement the itft module just to import the grouping moving a grouping here will not cause an additional trouble because it's not mandating people to use it if you don't need the regrouping you don't need to use it even if it is defined in the itft types so we don't think that moving the grouping from the itft and the itt types is causing any harm but it is just helping the people if they need in the future and the real issue that we see here is just that this moving this definition from the itf d module to if it has maybe delayed the progress of the itft module but this is more a procedure rather than a technical issue so the proposal is to keep the grouping if you are able to move forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "this document in a timely fashion let's comment next slide okay there was a couple of comments from saudi one was about the fact that at this moment in time in the topology model we have a different set of identifiers in the net for networks node links and termination points in the network topology and in the edit topology for example the node id is defined in the network topology as a uri the 18 already is defined as a dot required and there are some issues in some deployments where people would like to use the node id so the proposal is to update the t types to make it a uni a union between uri and the existing uh type for example that you know that it can be defined as a union between the dotted code and the uri another sec a second email that was embraced is some concerns on the definition of the ttp identifier as a binary and again the proposal here was to make the ttp identifier as a union between binary and the uri i think this proposal requires some discussion but of course they may broaden the scope of the update so we need to discuss and see how to deal with those comments next item you have a couple of people in queue and asked them just to go keep it short so tarek about this uh uh hi this is tariq um my question is about the union i i realized that you haven't discussed thoroughly this so but uh are we allowing are going to allow a mix of nodes to be identified by different ways one is yuri one is dotted quad and in the same topology and that's one thing and the other thing is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "uh um do we do we rely on parsing the value to know that this is a dotted quad or this is a yuri it's it becomes uh um error-prone something like that but but uh we can discuss that i realize that you want to still yeah yeah absolutely this is something to discuss in the context of this document yeah good question okay this the the last point is about the procedural okay we had discussed the sum of options and the issue in the version zero one of the document and unfortunately we remove it from the for the document that was pulled out from working reproduction but we got a comment from drew about that would be good to to put some justification maybe in appendix since it is the first time we are doing such an attempt and maybe i i tend to agree with him maybe what we can do we can bring it up if you agree to follow the update approach maybe we can put the appendix some texts that describe the rational for for the proposal the key question that i found from the discussion on this procedural issue is whether we think as a group that we need to have a lightweight approach for updated publishing your modules because the the i think this is the key issue the content that we are putting into this document up to today is something which is quite mature because it's coming from working group documents some of which are in working group plus school we are just moving them into a new document but if we go with a piece of a 90 pages document where everybody reviews page by page and world reward i don't think the the approval process will be that faster so i think the question the key question here is whether we want to have such a lightweight approach or not i see someone in the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:07",
    "text": "i cannot hear you i had to turn the mic on um yeah so john scutter here um i i uh about the uh you know abyss where um everybody reviews line by line and word by word one thing that uh the iesg are trying to do is for business with you know sort of well-contained small change sets um is to only review the uh well-contained small changes and not take it as an opportunity to do a um you know open season on reviewing the whole entire document and reopening past issues so um we can discuss further offline but i would encourage you you know for documents that have small change sets if you're trying to decide what to do please talk to me before deciding that it's just not a good option okay thanks so yes yes the piece can be a valuable approach and we can address the beast in such a way that the review is only locked limited to the changes sir okay yeah that's yeah okay suggestion again we can talk further offline okay yeah yeah we're we're pretty much out of time but i'd like to close on this issue so if you can get to that final slide i think this is like the i think the suggestion from john will solve this issue yes because there will be looks a reasonable approach yeah okay i think you can skip the next slide no no i think we can we can follow up the suggestion from john looks like a good a good solution okay so the next steps is to move forward with addressing the technical and procedural comments and then we need to align the working group which are using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "these new types i think that we have at least the t path computation layer 3t topology model and then we can try to go as quickly as possible to in group plus gold to avoid blocking the the progress of those depending working groups of course we need to clean up the procedural approach thank you yeah we we see no reason not to progress this to last call very quickly as soon as you get the document issues uh uh cleaned up so if you rev the document and say it's ready for last call expect us to follow through with that thank you thank you okay okay the test draft is about the big belief of ctl to packet optic integration i'm planning on vr for photos and quarters again next slider okay a quick recap okay uh this uh document is analyzing the applicability of the itf yam modus between the mdsc and the optical packet psc's to disk to support uh the packet of the integration in case of multi-domain packet and multi-domain optical network the use cases that have been analyzed are inventory service and topology discovery in particular they multi the link between routers and the rodents and the discovery of all the optical and eye packet parts and how it is possible to establish the two vpn which traffic engineering requirements they can drive the setup of new optical pattern and next slide what has been changed okay we did some updates uh uh we are generalized the description of the srt part discover pad discovery is a type of update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "this was a a comment we received during the last itf presentation and we discussed that on the main list so we made a description generic and applicable to any technology that for which the t tunnel model can be used at the mpi above the packet controller this with mplst and srt are just example of such technology specific augmentations that can be provided to support this technology the text has been reviewed and the description for srt is also generic enough to cover both srm pls and srv6 options we think that instead the interdomain option of bgplu is considered oscilloscope because that that's case that the t tunnel mode seems not applicable and the solution is slightly different and we decided not to go into too many uh options to analyze into the draft if interesting we can set up a new draft if there is a need for analysis an additional change that we did on this revision is that we added the analysis for the lag link aggregation so how to discover and set up and update the lag in case of intra domain links so links between two routers in the same domain with some optical path underneath of it we didn't discuss the analyze the intel domain lag because in this case there is no multi-layer coordination so it's not of interest of a multi-layer analysis we found that the lldp configuration has some implication when used with lag and we analyze that we need to make sure that the ldp is properly configured to allow the road damage looping to work properly and we have also to update the link setup update procedure mp minor technique please it is more in detail on uh on the changer of this not coming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:05",
    "text": "okay this is about oh okay okay one was about the lldp uh the previous slide i think you move two slides ahead okay yeah this one we noticed that for example if you enable ldp on the lag you can enable ldp on both the long members and the lag group so there will be some links where you send the two type of lldp packets one for the member and one for the group and this will but the cross-layer discovery should be based only on the lldp so the red and the blue for the render the black in one in the example of the slides the uh what what you notice that in order to make the interdomain link discovery properly work we the llp snooping should work on the black on the black ldp packet so the one cent on the lag members and there are two suggestions in the draft once the suggestion graph is to disable the lag on the aggregated ports so the red ledp packets will not be generated by the router not seen by the rodent and everything will work in the discovery as if there is no lag there are other methods we found for example in the standard there is a definition of the link aggregation tlv they may be used but some care has to be taken to make sure that the router and the rotor of course supports those options because in this case you need to be able to distinguish on the road and side which lldp packet belongs to which session and use only the black llp packets for the discovery next slide please and the multi-domain i introduce the procedure has been slightly updated because the first threats are the same so in order to set up an ip link over optical you have to create an optical tunnel in the in the optical network you have to create an internet client signal which allow to steer the traffic from the asus internet link over the optical tunnel as soon as you create"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "this configuration the optical domain you have any any an internal link between the two routers which this link can be either discovered by the packet psc if there is some methods like ldp or proprietary mechanism or if this mechanism is missing it can be configured by the mdsc in the previous version without lag the configuration the configuration or the quiz cover of this link was sufficient to trigger the configuration of the ip link over it but now with the lag you still the the packet pnc doesn't know whether this link has been created to become an ip link or to become a member of a lag so we change a video procedure to to enable the mdsc to explicitly tell this to the pnc and the what we we consider we take leverage the fact that the ip topology is rewrite so the mdc can create the link between the routers over this ethernet link and this will trigger the packet pnc to configure it the the configuration of the link is still done by the packet pc but the trigger is now the creation of the link in the epi topology by the mdsc if there is the lag there will be a different procedure to add the link to the lagrange next slide please okay now we have we have some open issues we are tracking them on on github most of them is just requiring people to to write the text so we have no really outstanding issue that requires a lot of discussion there was a the only question that was raised recently is whether there is a need to add some examples for api course or workflows for example some json encoding this can be useful if you want to analyze the the details of the year modus but on the contrary is increasing they will increase the weight and the size of the document so we are not sure whether this making this change is a good idea or not from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "the document so we are looking for feedback from the working group and there is some need to continue working with screen oscar is taking care of it to discuss some of the technology-specific augmentation for srt to the t-tunnel model thank you any questions so uh italy in the last meeting there were several comments about the use of sr specific examples in this model they i mean the guidance given at that point was to describe the procedures in a technology agnostic manner and then bring in uh sr specific examples or rsvp's basic examples where there's a deviation uh i i do see uh that there has been a conscious effort to address some of that but it's nowhere near done uh at least that's that's my opinion and i believe my co-author is also my co-chair is also agreeing with me on that um so that's something that you would have to keep addressing as the document evolves okay uh okay can you okay maybe we can talk offline i think we try to to generalize it maybe something has been over oversight okay thank you thanks reza uh hello everyone my name is reza rokuy from siena on behalf of my co-authors and contributors i'm going to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "present a network slice nba young model next please the changes in the latest revision is outlined here i'm not going to cover you know all the bullets here it's self-explanatory but uh overall we align the stp connectivity construct that we have attachment in the young model with the draft with the framework we try to be aligned with everything that we have on the framework we also included some of the reusing of the common model that we have vpn and so forth we also aligned some of the choice uh for the young model in the for the values connectivity the services that we have point to point point to multipoint and any to any uh these are all the types that define in the framework and uh we put lots of examples thanks to john he provided john lots of examples that clarifies what the model is and how we are going to use it and there are some other aspects about the dscp and match and we try to you know add more clarity to the yang model the last bullet we remove 5g example that we have because we have another drive i'm going to present at the shortly about application of the nbi and generally it network slice in 5g from that reason we remove it from here and we added that now there are few issues that i'm going to discuss that are open issue that we have and if you go to the next slide the in general to just have the baseline here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "we put six different ietf network slices in this picture network slice one all the way to six with the various connectivity that we can have we can have point-to-point point to multipoint n2ne and we put those examples here just to have a baseline and clarity that generally speaking the connectivity construct has one direction which is specific so low it can belong to a group connectivity group so a group has multiple connection potentially with the different slo and this is the idea that we go after again this is aligned with the framework document that we are based if you go to the next slide the first issue that we are going to uh this open issue is about the policy slo sle policy as you see in the model at the beginning of the model we have the policy this policy is defined in the three different areas at the network slice layer at the group layer and the connection layer the question here is do we need to have an ability to first of all configure this policy as a model or this should be part of uh it should be outside of the model so this is one aspect and another aspect is so so-called inheritance and update if for example we want to create a itm network slice with the well-known gold policy and somebody says oh i want that gold policy but by the way i want to just change one attribute of that should should we allow that how we should do it do we rewrite everything or do we specify that a specific attribute that inheritance and update comes from that so basically the first issue is policy related creation of the policy update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "and inheritance and this is the still uh under discussion uh that we have a weekly meeting about this one and more than happy to hear everybody's uh idea about this one and what's the best way to handle it next please the second one is uh the right now at the match i criteria that we have we are specifying match and value and the question is if you want to have a complex combination of the ip header for the match should we allow this or not and if you want to do it is this reasonable to use acl type of the reference here and there is a pros and cons obviously but this is an open issue that that adding that acl might help here but again we need everybody's the opinion about that one if you go to the third issue that we have the summary of this one is if you take a look at the bottom left picture we have stp today stp peri which has two area protocol and opec generally speaking the idea here is we want to be quote unquote technology agnostic from that aspect we define a group of attribute types and value from that aspect we didn't try to two examples is in the middle picture for example for the aesthetic routing or bgp but we on purpose we didn't we didn't put that one in the protocol because that idea of the technology agnostic is not there anymore from that aspect we have a generic concept of attribute and value and also we added a opaque which adds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "more flexibility the issue is on the top right if for the interoperability issues if we have these two the yank could have some intra ability and we need some proposal and the feedback from the young doctors and working group to see what is the best way to handle it what is the balance to put something specific but at the same time we keep the idea of the technology as agnostic idea here and this is just i bring it up to make sure we are all aware of that and if there is any proposal and i'm sure this is not the first time happened but if there's any proposal how to fix this one it would be more than happy to take that yeah in other models i don't remember off the top of my head which but i can find it uh what we've done is um added a i believe it was a choice actually it doesn't matter the specifics we added a place where um for future augmentation for technology specific augmentation so rather than putting an opaque value you put a a place i think it was a choice statement do you have an example if you can send it to us it would be great thank you if you go to the fourth issue uh so uh there was some discussion about uh adding to the model as an the idea some type of the topology of the network this is quote unquote similar to the the v2 child type 2 vn that is specified is hctn there was some discussion that it might be needed but the general question that we have is this something that we want to do because again we don't want to remove that technology agnostic concept from the model and the question is do we need to do that one and if the answer is yes we have to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "that one we can add some type of the the similar type to we end in the model but at this point we want to make sure the question is do we need it yes or no and if the answer is yes we are going to continue going forward and i think the last slide is going to give us uh okay there was uh is this uh okay i thought there's a five issue there are four of them so at this point we are going to uh resolve the open issue that we have and if there is any further comment more than happy to hear that any question comment please thank you very much uh regarding the issue four um i think it's useful i think it's useful to let the client know what abstract topology is available before the service is being made i i know there this this ask has uh been uh around for a while like i think even before we adopted there were some examples for it and it's it keeps coming back so i think it it it is it should be discussed and added if you can there are existing ways of representing the customized topology and uh sharing it with the client um you could leverage those and then in the service request you can just reference that but that's something that you would i would recommend you to look at okay maybe i will talk to you that thank you for the comment thanks again hi um i'll rely on you for flipping the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "yeah i had a network i had a network bounce if you if it happens again just take over okay thank you my name is uh tarek saad and uh i'm going to give an update on this draft yang data model for network resource partition policy we have presented this draft multiple times in the past and this is just uh going to concentrate on the on the changes introduced in this revision next slide please you should have control okay [Music] thank you so a bit of introduction before we talk about the changes network resource partition the definition of it was introduced in ietf network slices draft it's a collection of resources identified in the underlay network to support the ietf network slice service the the nrp policy was introduced in itft's nsip mpls draft and is a policy construct that enables instantiation of mechanisms in support of service specific control and data plane behaviors on select topological elements associated with the nrp the draft defines a yang data model for the management of nrp policies on nrp capable nodes and controllers in an ipa plus network there were multiple modes identified for nrp uh for network resource partitions in the network uh one was partitioning in the control plane uh another one in the data plane and the third mode was when partitioning is happening in both control plane and data plane this yank data model will cover all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "three flavors uh so um the the changes introduced in this revision is a target uh node that's a state only that describes the filtered topology the filter topology is is also described in the in the draft idf network slices and we will talk a little bit more about it in in slide 9. so under topology container um we we have a list of filters uh there are multiple variants of filters that are defined in another draft i have a reference there the topological elements that match such membership criteria um the filters can be used for different different purposes one is overriding reservations on select elements but there are multiple variants of filters that one can use and as a result of filters there will be network elements that match the filter and the the set of network elements that of topological network elements that match the filter will be displayed under filtered topology uh we have two choices of uh ways to this to to describe this filter topology one is just a reference to a uh topology that we create for the network topology elements that matched the filter the other is to just reference the topological elements in the native topology as they are we just have pointers to them and the latter um we just have two references one is the network reference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "of the physical topology for example and the topological element key node or link so these are the two flavors of ways of presenting the filter topology in terms of next steps we we have engaged with authors of draft wdt's nrp yang we believe it it has some [Music] resemblance and we are working with them and finding ways to collaborate with them uh so we look forward to to continue this collaboration and the second next step item we have is to add some uh three instances of the data model in json uh for examples on uh network controller and on the device and as usual we welcome requests sorry we welcome reviews from the working group and as well as any feedback we have adrian in the queue uh hi there this is adrian um thank you for continuing on this document i'm i'm a little um unclear about your mode b which is the control plane only is what you're saying there that there's actually the partitioning is happening in a uh in a logical way in a central controller so uh it's the data plane is unaware of the partitioning but it's happening um in in some accounting mechanism and a central controller uh hi adrian uh thanks for the question um what we mean by control plane only is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "that the reservations are or the bandwidth bookkeeping is being done either on the controller or on the network element as a vis-a-vis rsvp way so the call admission module is sitting on the node or on the controller indeed it's possible but but the idea of that reservations are managed and maintained maybe by priority order uh on that reservation manager and not in the data okay yeah i think i get that maybe a few more words in the draft to um to help people like me okay sure thing thank you okay i don't see anybody else in the queue thanks tara uh we have both okay thanks oh she's presenting oh okay i think yeah bo is presenting next time thank you thank you so much hello everyone this is paul and uh i uh this uh an rpm module has been presented for several times so this time i'm going to give some updates on this on this draft next please i think you have slide control at least i don't anymore no okay okay thanks yeah i can control uh and in this uh version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "uh we add uh we add a section to describe uh like uh we give some summarize on the nrp modeling requirements breaking up pretty bad so we are not able to hear you bo your audio seems not to be working i think maybe we will uh skip bo and then come back when hopefully if you could do an audio test that would be appreciated uh my session keeps dropping locally so i don't know if others are having that problem also so i don't know if it's a meat echo problem or something else but we'll try to keep going so bo we'll come back to you at the end so we're going to move over to jay okay can you hear me we can see give us a minute yeah okay so you have 10 minutes for both these uh both these documents and you should have control"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "yeah good actually i combined this end to end never slice uh with a hierarchical knob slice the two drafts will be presented together here i'm going to present this update of this two drafts and some considerations on behalf of the co-authors jimmy can you be a bit louder now can you hear me yeah i think that happens okay so here are some background about this work uh we know that narrow slicing can be used to meet the connectivity and so or sle requirements of different service and customers in the share network the concept naruto slicing was firstly defined in the cgpp and they only covered the ram and the mobile car network slides some nets and for the transport part of the end-to-end number slice item number slice is going to be used to provide end-to-end slicing and the performance guarantee in the idf network slice framework draft it describes the concept and the general framework of the itm network slice and it also mentioned that the metal slices can be realized by mapping one a group of the connectivity constructs to an nrp usually an itm left slice can cover either a single domain or multiple domains and the item network slides may be further sliced to provide fine granular connectivities and the resources for the hierarchical customers or services this kind of multi-domain slides or the hierarchical slide scenarios are briefly mentioned in the item native slice framework draft and we think it is useful to elaborate on these scenarios and also the realization considerations for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:06",
    "text": "so here is uh a typical ietf and that end-to-end i cannot slice scenario uh this is using the functional slice as the example in the transparent network segment uh one or multiple five general slices can be mapped to an itunes slice and this realization could be uh enhanced vpn service the in the enderly network the itm natural slices can be mapped to can be supported by a multi-domain nrp which is uh achieved by concatenation of multiple intra-domain rp's this mechanism is uh so similar to the intro into domain vpn cases so as shown in this picture we can have three tn transparent net domains and each domain how well multiple nrp is provided and the concatenation of the different intradomain nrps in the domains provide a multi-domain rp to support the end-to-end item number slide service so here uh in most of this uh interactional slicing realization is about how to provide the contact concatenation of the nrp's firstly uh i think a network controller will be needed for the creation and the concatenation of the multiple intro domain nrps to provide and annual slide service and secondly the ingress node of the nrp will need to steer the itf network slides traffic into this multi-domain nrp then the information of this multi-domain nrp will need to be carried in the package for the mapping of the slide service to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "the corresponding intradomain rps at the domain border node such information can be carried as either as an end-to-end nrp identifier or it can be carried as a list of the identifiers of the introduction in our piece to be traveled by the packet regarding the detailed encapsulations do you want to take questions now let me take a look john okay maybe you can ask yeah hi drama lulu cisco um back on the previous picture you're concatenating nrps or shouldn't we really be concatenating ietf network slices per transport domain i mean that would be a more modular uh cookie-cutter approach than trying to do this at the nrp level plus you might have different policies uh between different networks so uh just asking about how the how the problems being tackled uh in this case yeah i think uh that's a good question i think what you mentioned it can be considered as the inter domain option a so that we have a different uh uh network slice 10 points at the domain border nodes so that we can concatenate actually activates like services and that that is also an option okay so just something you should consider and then maybe at the hierarchical level it's more of a controller uh problem in terms of how to manage the uh connections between the different slices thank you yeah yeah i agree that is going to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "that scenario can also be covered in the future versions and here we are mostly talking about the concatenation of the nrp's to build an end-to-end slice service thank you okay let me continue so the encapsulation of the multi-domain rp information with different data plane are specified in the following documents and i will not go into the details of this encapsulations please go and do it read this draft and give feedback thank you in the next following slides about the hierarchical network slice cases in this page we list several use cases of the hierarchical network slicing which means we can have the first level of network slice then have a final granular network slice uh created within the first level of network slices and we may have more hierarchy hierarchies based on this model in this hierarchical network slash draft we may describe some considerations about the realization of the hierarchical network slides in different network planes including the forwarding plane the data plane the management plan the control plane for the forwarding plane it is mainly about how to partition the resource hierarchically and how to represent the hierarchical partition resource to the network uh linked like the at the link level so we have different options to represent the hierarchical resources and this we have different impacts to the control plan and management plan the details are described a lot and for the fiddling uh the many major issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "how to identify the hierarchical network and our piece and we need some identifier which can be used to identify both the uh first level of nrp and also the hierarchical levels in rpgs within the like the first level nrp we have also several options of this nrp identifier in the data plane like we can use a unified identifier for both for different levels of nrps or we can have a hierarchical identifiers to identify the different levels with a different segment of the identifier this will also have different impacts to the data plane encapsulations for the control plane i think the challenge is uh we need to use control plane to distribute the attributes of different levels of the hierarchical energies both among the network nodes and also to the controller with the number of the hierarchical natural slice increases the control plane optimization would be need to be considered as for the management plane uh the management plan needs to provide the independent life cycle management for different level of the nrps and the next slices also it will need to consider and maintain the relationship and the constraints between the different levels of anarchy so that the resource uh allocation or the some other constraints we need to be considered when create a hierarchical nrp within the basin rp if you could wrap up that'd be great oh yeah this is the last page so here uh the next steps the we think the end to end and the hierarchical number slices can be considered as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "advanced application of the active itf nanoslice while the majority of these two topics are not the same as the contents in the base item data slice framework draft and there was concerns raised about whether they can be stand-alone drafts because they're not very a large draft document and here we have a question to the working group should we consider to move merge this uh two drafts at the end to end and the hierarchical slice drafts into one document or do we keep them separate as is we would like to welcome for the comments and feedback so that we can update the drafts accordingly that's all so in the context uh in the context of the last the first draft in the last meeting uh we had said it would be best to see if you could merge the text with existing documents for example for example some of the text clearly could go to the framework it's not too late to get text into the framework it's much better to get it into an existing document particularly one that's about to go out the door than to have standalone documents that we have to run the process on so for both of these documents if there's an opportunity to take the text and put it into another document please do so and preferably a existing working group document and the best way to do that is send the text to the list talk to the authors i think some of them you may be a co-author on already so talk to yourself please get the text into the existing documents if you can thank you yeah that is a a good feedback i know well would like to welcome further feedback from the group on this that's that thank you leon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:04",
    "text": "hi everyone can you hear me loud and clear okay thank you do i have the control of the slice yes you should have control please please go on okay thank you hello everyone this is bien coming from china mobile i'm glad to do the presentation on behalf of all the co-authors the topic is about the segment routine best solution for hierarchical htf networks like this first just as mentioned just know by previous present presentation the concept of the hierarchical item network slices is based on the ietf terminologies network slicing itf network slides and network resource partition the hierarchical hf network slices describe the network slices which can be further sliced or combined hierarchically for example one of the possible scenarios is that an industry size needs to be divided into multiple customer slices this draft proposes a two-level hierarchical itf networks of slice solutions which is based on the segment routine generally speaking the level 1 network slice is realized by associating flex level with dedicated sub interfaces and the level 2 network slice is realized by using either policy with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "additional pid on little plane sorry it's a bit slow and now this slide shows the framework of the two-level hierarchical slices the level one is associated with the flex algo and the the traffic is steered into the flex algo passes using the prefixes or as a radio locators and the level two is associated with one or a group of isr policies under the level 1 nrp and the traffic of the level 2 network is built into the exa policies based on the framework described about the network resource is also partitioned in a hierarchical manner taking the bandwidth resources as an example the level 1 bandwidth is guaranteed by a layer three step interface with dedicated bandwidths and the prefix seed or srv6 locators is used at the data plane identifier and the level two bandwidth is guaranteed by pure with dedicated bandwides under the layer 3 sub interface and the rpid is used as the data plane identifier"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "this slide shows the relationship about the nrp and the slides actually each nrp either level 1 or level 2 both can be used to support one or a group of network slices this is consistent with the item for definition but for actual deployment i think it's much more complicated for launch nrp to be mapped to multi-slicing and it makes little sense since the resources of the level 2 is already finally divided so here the level 2 nrp to slice is shown as one to one also we think if there is the requirement scenario that this can also be one two multiple this is one example for the whole solution for the picture from the bottom up to the physical network is divided into two nrps through the flux elbow and each nrp is mapped to one slice one is for the education slice and the other is for the health care slice for education slice there are two customers for example university one and the university too they all have different access points and interconnection for health care slice the slice the second slice there is only one customer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:08",
    "text": "based on the topology about the resource partition is like this uh taking p e one as example uh the physical interface one there will be two sub interfaces and under which there will be two or one queue respectively for physical interface 2 there will be only one sub interface and one queue under the sub interface and all the sub-interfaces and the cues are associated with the dedicated panel-wise uh the last picture illustrates the traffic forwarding from the picture we can see that the final result is that for the normal education traffic for the first slides the packet is encapsulated by the destination of understated associated with the specific flex algo and the traffic is forwarded through the layer 3 step interface and for the specific traffic coming from university 1 to university 2 the encapsulation except the activistics header and srh also includes additional nrp id and the traffic is before they just shoot the kill under does that interface"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:09",
    "text": "okay this is all for the solution businesses sincerely hopeful to get your feedback to improve our solution thank you very much thank you any uh comments then we'll move on uh one quick comment uh so irrespective of where um the text from uh g in the previous presentation goes uh this uh this ability should go to the spring uh we you can probably present it there and see where it takes you okay okay thank you for your suggestion if necessary we will present it in spring also and we also looking forward for the feedback increase thank you very much thank you uh robin you're next okay cow hear me uh the hello update that you just made uh should have been reflected but yeah in case it doesn't show up continue with what you see on the site you should have control okay uh hello everyone this is the champion huawei today i will do the presentation about the consideration on generalize the ietf network slicing okay here this is a brief background because we know we have this draft to describe the concept and the general"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "framework of ietf network slides but now with the development and the deployment of iti itf network slides in different types of network for different applications there are emerging requirements about the new capability and the functionality of itr network slides is expected that the concept ietf network slice and the network resource partition will be generalized this document describes the consideration about the possible generalization of itf network slice and network resource partition okay so here this is the description of the relation between the nrp and the topology because we know that the nrp needs to be associated with the network topology to determine the set of network resource of the nrp so in the data plane the rp specific identifier could be used to determine the topology and the resource of the nrp for packet processing but we know now that we have this one dropped proposed in six months working group that's the that's this is the draft to describe how to use the ipv6 to carry the multiple topology id for the idp multi topology or the igp flexa ego because this is used to cope with the user cases that the sim forwarding addresses could be reused for packet in different topology that means that because we know that for the different multi-party we have the different forwarding address but we also have this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "the user cases but we use the same forwarding address but we use the topology to propose the id to identify the address to be used for the different topology so if we use this solution so that the rp id may be generalized to identify both the topology and the set of resource uh so here they are has this the first question what should be the relation between the ietf network uh slice and the multiple topology and the philosophy i mean there should be independent or that means this is the the multi topology should be the special case of the nrp so that's the first issue the second one i mean the nrp is allocated with a set of forwarding plane network resource to guarantee the sre that means os sr sro etc but now because as the development of the rp so the scope of the rp resource may be extended to cover other types of resource here i'll give these the several examples the first the resources need to be provided guaranteed latency for that net service all this the resource can be used for some network function of the nrp for example the security functions and also this is the result it can be the virtualized resource maybe that's the virtualized device to support the ietf network slides so here we have the two questions uh the first one what should be the relation between the data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "net and the ietf network slides and this is the another question can other services such as the security can also be seen as the ietf network slice or the nrp so means that the network slides not only used to guarantee the sro but also use for other services such as the secularity so here we also have this the rp for multiple connective constructs so here we give the example for the virtual list of the line service so we we can say that the virtual uh listed line can be mapped to the nrp so it can be uh one to one it can also to map or share the rp but here we give the example because here we can see there's a truly center line which is the two gigabit the bandwidth respectively but if one outgoing interface are shared by the two virtualized line so that's the question what the bandwidth should be for the nrp so i mean so here there's a two gigabit or that's the four gigabit or all this maybe other other gigabit for the virtual release line mapping to the rp so i here this is what should be the nrp for the water release of the line and here this is the last this generalization of the itr network slicing because we know at the beginning this uh ietf network slice is used for the 5g under to end the network slice but later this it of network slides has been extended to the operators the metro and the backbone networks but now as the deployment of intel network slides it can be extended for the campus network and the data center"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "networks so and also maybe also the sd1 but we know that for the operator for the operators the amperes or the s armpits or srv6 as a tunnel but you know for the data center uh i finished this one it just lost the page okay so here are these also this is the uh this means that the uh itr network slides may be also used for the various ip tunnels uh uh besides the npr's and the srv6 tunnels i mean the vxlan or the gre so here we have this the generic ipv6 tunnel work that's for the network slicing used for other tunnels okay so here these are the questions so we would like to solicit the feedback and also try to reach the consensus and revise this document accordingly okay please question can you hear me yeah this is louie jaleel so i'm noticing that you for some reason it's more the way you're presenting is more static resources and dedicated resources you know you keep looking for i know we're allocating partitions all this other stuff but it looks like it's more static and hardened than being more dynamic that's what i'm seeing just overall from your slides is that correct or do you see it differently uh i'm not sure if you i catch you all these the point uh very well but here these are just this some of these the issues about means maybe the rp the resource you're not the bandwidth resource for the sre but the user can be used for the topology represent topology or maybe the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "security service etc yeah thanks robin uh same comment as the one that was made for uh ge documents uh i mean see if you can propose some text to the network slices document and for the underlay constructs for nrp in particular you may want to construct proposing text to the nsip mpls document okay thanks good morning again and this is rosario from siena on behalf of my co-authors i'm going to present application of ip ietf network slice in 5g network slice next slide just a quick background if you are looking at the picture on the right right hand side this taken from the framework document there are various applications or use cases for itf network slides there are clearly mentioned in the framework document you can use the concept of itm network slides to for example do the connectivity in data centers or the whole sales and so on these are various use cases the one that we are referring here is a 5g obviously 5g network slicing is one of the the top runner at this time for the ietf network slice and the goal of this giraffe is basically address the red portion on that picture currently there are three drafts which are talking about various application of the network slicing in the context of 5g"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "you will see these three drafts a different area of that is discussed as in the previous ietf the chair asked if we can combine all those drafts and have a new draft so basically today's discussion is combination of three drafts in a single draft to address various applicability and use cases of itm network slice as a general concept or solution in very specific use case is 5g so having that in mind if you go to a next slide it shows the what has been done at the very top layer very the higher layer we mesh three documents we just don't merge them but we add new content to it as well so we consider some of the progress that happening on the 3gpp 541 which is the the management of the network modeling we also added a use case for that an example for that and keep in mind that this document is still in progress but the overall is we are basically merging those three documents as a whole and if you go to the next slide it shows the skeleton of the brand new document we have started at the beginning and there is no need for me to go through each item one by one but suffice to say that we already cover as an outer of those three draft we cover chapter one two three we went through that as a one cycle after the revision we are still doing it other chapters and we are uh today i'm going through this chapter to show the overall structure of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "document and the seeking you know advice and the contribution from everyone so if you go to the next slide and starting from starting from the beginning this is simply the framework if you're looking at the picture on the right hand side we have run radio access network we have an access network and we have a cn core network which are dedicated to the 5g functionality there are values connectivity happening inside the run inside the core or between them those red area that you see is connectivity and as you see 5g network slicing it addressing the connectivity from that aspect the use case that we have here is there our tn transport network connecting values component network function in different areas and the role of the ietf network slice is how we can address that for any an example if you go to the next slide it shows a second level of detail for the examples depends on the rand deployment when we talk about run deployment there there are three rand deployment in general distributed red centralized run and cloud ran without going through the detail of that the difference is how the component of the radio access network are connected together are they everything is one network the one component we have or we are separating that one into the so-called centralized unique or the distributed unit and this is a cu and du i'm sure you heard about this acronym few times but the idea here is this picture you will you can go through the draft to see the detail but the idea here is one single ietf one single 5g network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "slice depends on the run deployment can have multiple ietf network slices in other words there are different connectivity which is needed if you go to the picture at the bottom for example which is showing the cloudra there are components uh radio unit du cu and core and there are different connectivity that ins underscore one or two and so on it shows the multiplicity and the idea here is a single end-to-end network slice from 5g perspective might have multiple iot of network slots and this is the idea of the whole picture you can go through the detail in the draft to see more so i'm running out of time i have to hurry up a bit next slide this one shows the from the left picture to the right we have itf network slice controller okay yeah sure so uh open issue theory first about the terminology that we use here in a specific should we use 5g end-to-end network slides or we remove that end-to-end because from the perspective of the 3gpp when they talk about network slides inherently they're talking about 5g and they are talking about end-to-end they never talk about these two explicitly so the first question is should we use or should we keep end-to-end the next one is should we use access network or in a specific radio access network so because again from the mobility is radio access so we feel that that for this question should be ready access network but we are open to any question that since you go to 3gpp document you will see a n you don't see a radio a and radio access network next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "next to address these questions and uh basically we are open to any suggestions any comments and uh more collaboration is needed from that aspect as well uh louis please yes in queue we have uh julian go ahead so first thank you for providing the combined draft i have one comment and two questions and the comment is about the open issues you know which term to use a 5g network slice or 5g network or 5g n2n network slice my proposal is to use 5g network slides so the first point is about uh 3gpp has no uh 5g n2 and network slides and and to a network slice scope is out of 3gpp because the connection between upf to dn is out of the 3gpp network slice scope and the third point is about bbf tr522 use 5g network slides we also discussed uh this question uh you know uh to use 5g n2 and network slides or 5g network slides our agreements as to use 5g network slides so um my proposal is to use this term to keep the term consistent uh okay my two questions uh one is about the scope for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "document uh i noticed that uh the scope for this document uh includes you know the itf natural slice can result in uh ancient ad tn and also about the ietf natural slice deployment i noticed that uh this has overlapped with bbf tr522 so um my proposal is that if atf want to do this work uh my proposal is uh that itf to send leads onto bbif okay and my second question is about the solution excuse me can you take your provides matching [Music] solution uh to realize the transport slides connected with uh so if you don't mind taking the rest of the questions to the list we're we're really running overtime and we have a couple of other people who want to ask questions yeah no and i'll just make a comment i won't drag it um remember we're not just offering networks license to 5g there'll be other access networks even broadband and everything else if you make it specific if you make it specific to 5g you'll have to spend another one when we start talking wireline other services so that's one and this is to me looks like a mapping draft not treatment so maybe you can indicate somewhere that we're doing the map in here but we're not telling you how to do network slicing inside itf maybe i missed it but that's that's just comments just for you okay maybe we can talk thank you very soon uh i've seen many documents who underplayed transmission like transport network is part of the slicing story so this is a good document and i definitely agree that uh having transportation network in the picture and having the end to end is implicit is definitely very good so i support that okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "thank you very much again kristoff sir hello my name is christoph sarkozy from juniper networks on behalf of co-authors of the draft realization of itf network slices for 5g networks using current ipms technologies i will present our draft so characters are from orange from juniper as well and from orange med from telefonica luis and from ribbon communications event next slide please so basically the idea here the overall goal and approach was that um assess it to what extent atf network slash can be implemented using current ipms technologies so which means if we have current network running and operator and the operator would like to introduce 5g services on this current network with minimal change what the operator can do in in order to introduce 5g services and provide kind of reference document kind of blueprint blueprint to approaches to the slices with such technology so what needs to be configured what's in video plate orchestrated and so on and then approach our approaches rather than generic climbs we pick a specific deployment context which is the 5g the s5g is the most most promising context here for slicing that's the reason we pick 5g as an example for that next slide and because this is concentrating on 5g we are using terminology that is using the 5g when we convert slicing so run cntn so core network transport network it means we are talking about transport network slicing and when we talk about transfer network slices and transfer slices we refer to itf network slice basically but we are concentrating on the 5g terminology so in 5g worlds they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "are calling it transport slice next slide please so what we have in this document so first is overview of 5g networking this is for for generating you know transport engineers to understand more or less about 5g a different kind of methods between the run cn and transport network so how we handle the traffic what is the cooperation here between these domains to the transport network how do we realize the transport of 5g slices using current ipmps technologies in order you know for brand field deployments existing network aligning them 5g concept of 5g deployments with the current deployments that we have for example business services wholesale smallers that we are currently deployed and so on then we touch very close about the transmitter slicing qs models and we defined here the two models a 5k aware underwear and 5k of our model and we talked about capacity planning management so basically the idea here is that we use capacity planning for for a traffic isolation next slide please so we define as well different mapping options between the 5g slice and the transport slice which is iotf networks license mentioned before and there could be a couple of options some examples i provided here so one two one mapping one to end mapping so we could have one transport slice same that serves multiple 5g slices we could have some 5g slice that serving you know different for the user playing different from the control plane and user playing control play using different transport slices and so on there are a couple of modes described in this document next night please uh then we define as well from the orchestration perspective we see the differentiation between the first slides being deployed 5g slice and the subsequent slices especially for the control plane so usually the control plane is a shared among multiple 5g slices next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "slide please there's one question okay a and our higher high level of overview of the realization model is that we are using very granule control on the edge on the service delivery points on the attachment circuits and very you know we graph of course qs control in the transport this is to align with the current technologies and kind of deployment models that used by their service providers looks like these uh we discussed different kind of centers as mentioned so at the moment the initial version of the draft series tribes strap zero we described the villain handoff methods and the ip based kind of methods by the future versions we describe additional handle sensors between the run cn domain and the transport network domain sorry looks like these and as discussed we discussed different usa models we have mapping models basically how to map the qos using the 5g which is 5ki if a 5g qs identifier to the qs used in the transport network we define two models five qi underwear mode which means the entire slice is traded as the single class from the transport network perspective of five key or aware mode which means that we have some class differentiation in the 5g slice and this nice differentiation is reflected in the transport network next slide please and at the end we use capacity planning and management so there are a couple of schemes can be considered we discuss with schemes in data so i will not go details because we don't have time scheme one is the shortest path forwarding so it's basically no traffic engineering or eventually some flex algo scheme two is traffic engineering with fixed path reservations um and skin freeze traffic engineering with a dynamic bandwidth reservations so it could be out of bandwidth or dime reservation based on the telemetry collection and of course additional schemes can be considered as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "and the conclusion so existing atf technologies provide good foundation for implementing 5g slicing native domain and of course in subsections revisions of this draft will expand that next steps the questions suggestions any comments hi it's adrian thank you um for this draft which i found a really detailed and well-written useful background however uh i don't think that section three and section five are ietf material they're really useful descriptions of how 5g works but i'm not sure that the ietf is the place that we should be documenting that even as an explainer to the ietf um but section five is the traffic engineering is the schemes so maybe you you you section two section two is describing the 5g sorry the section number's wrong there are two sections there's one describing 5g and one describing 5g quas and those i i i worry you know what what's the consequence of them conflicting with 3gpp and so on okay so it feels more like a white paper good to publish but maybe not here the other thing i'd like you to consider is that using the default nrp is is an approach and it's uh it's certainly achievable i'd like you to spend some time on describing the limitations of that approach as well as the benefits okay understood yes we are that thank you i agree with adrian is a good document but um i agree with the adrian is a good document i strongly they suggest that you use the terminology that we have in the framework i see here transport network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "transfer slides dosing we had the lengthy discussion during the the adoption of the framework and for the specific reason we we don't want to use them so please make sure that all the terminology that you use is uh confirmed with that rough thank you thank you i think uh i think groove left uh they're gonna find this so we're i think they were good there uh there was a comment in chat about there's some uh overlap between this and the previous one exactly yes there is separate material so maybe just reference rather than define all right thank you very much hello everyone i will present this draft about the data center ability topology model uh to the one on behalf of john and i'm so famous authors so next please well here's the idea is that the service providers are deploying more and more computing capabilities across the network being connected in several points of the network sort of attachment points and then this relates to the data centers or compute capabilities of different sizes so we can link this with the edge computing story or much more centralized data centers so the the the problem that we try to address is that the the fact that it could become interesting to have a joint topological view of the network plus the the compute capabilities being connected on across the network right so in such a way that we could assist on the traffic engineering decisions once we need resources in the compute site so here what we do is to follow a similar approach to the one that was followed in a another working group document which is the service function aware topology model so essentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "moving from the service function ideas to the resource idea of the compute capabilities so um the the purpose here is to describe um complete capabilities and maybe in two manners this is uh some work in progress so we need to to see if this uh consistent to to go in one direction or in another direction or both of them so one approach would be to uh describe the resources [Music] i mean to describe the data the compute capabilities in terms of resource capabilities such as cpu memory storage and so on so far or alternatively to describe them in terms of resource bundles which is usually no then known as quotas here for instance we we follow an example in the draft which is being elaborated in the cntt initiative as a cloud infrastructure telco tax force which is a joint initiative between the linux foundation and gsma just as an example so next please so for instance in this initiative they they are proposing different flavors and they consider predefined flavors as the ones that you can see the table but they also open the door to define customize customize flavors so somehow what we try to reflect here is uh these possibilities so going to the either the raw resources or either going in these ideas or of flavors and so we will try to adapt the model to these two approaches by now so next please so as a summary this step was already presented in itf 109 versions 2 and 1 and 2 essentially provided updates on on the model on the the id of the these compute flavors this is also because the the definition on these alternatives that the cntt and so are moving forward so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "so how we are adapting to these new definitions so as next steps uh we would like to to adapt the model to the different ways of exposing data center capabilities uh this includes also different kind of technologies for instance the example that i saw before was uh defined in relationship with openstack in dc cnt initiative but there will be other ways maybe of expressing resources with other approaches like kubernetes and so so our objective will be also to work on the young modules accompanying the model and also probably to start including some examples on cases that could better reflect the the the possibilities of of this approach we are considering for instance start modeling the what could be a case for upf or things like that or or thinking on the segregated radio as well they see you and and so that could be examples of applicability of this model so uh just for finishing any feedback or any comment is more than welcome and that's all from my side thank you okay is greg in the room okay uh i don't see the presenter for this unless uh sampath are you gonna present someone just came into you all right we're gonna try to go back to bo uh so uh that was uh bo can you check your audio while i find your slides please okay can you hear me now is this better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "it sounds okay why don't we give it a shot did i get the wrong one i got the wrong one sorry hold on okay i try to be quick uh thanks everyone uh i'm going uh this draft has been presented several times and this time i'm going to give some updates on this draft and since uh last idea meet the working group has adopted the two new nrp related drafts and so when we had this tariq just mentioned we had some discussion with nrp modeling and things uh still uh the unless framework gives some general nrp definition we we still think that uh nrp modeling needs more uh like detailed uh definition like here uh we give we try to summarize some k components from uh the two new adopted drafts one is from an srpm plus uh uh like things there are so many uh new uh terminology in this draft we try to uh find some common uh components uh that also in the uh enough scalability drugs so here we think like nrp partition mode is quite useful to define different partition types and also an rp control plane"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "in unless ipmps they define rpte but in rp scalability they also define some distributed control plane like multi topology and also flexago these uh distributed control plane can also be supported and about the data plane uh nrp data plane uh uh unless ipmp has defined uh data plane selector and phb uh but enough scalability defines like an rpid for the data plane so here uh we try to summarize the requirements and and like to ask the comments and feedbacks from others and to see whether we have some good summarization here and about this model uh usage we try to align with a nice framework definition this uh nrp model belongs to network configuration interface model and then uh about this nappy topology uh these the terms we try to uh borrow from unless ipmps network because right now there's no uh there is a need like whether there this nlp topology needs to be defined uh like in tariq just mentioned uh we have the filter ways to define a filter topology but we since we reading from the framework dropped we feel that there is a another customized way that we can select specific links from the underly network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "here on the right hand i showed a a model strap just a snip from the model that you can see that how that mod topology can be set up instead of using the filter rules so that's the main update from the last itf meeting then here is a summary of the way you think about the nrp model component the major components like for the foot basically we feel the nrp model should cover both an rp configuration and also not monitoring and for configuration we can choose to decide whether this is a control plane partition or it's a data plane partition and then about the topology uh what's that's already in the ns framework definition and i think resource reservation uh nrp policy also had this uh but enough control planes seems missing in nrp policy so we think this is a at this stage we think this is a summary of the the major components uh i think and and then it's enough monitoring and uh basically uh tarek also means mentioned that we right now we we are still in the discussion and since uh this model and nrp policy model they have many uh comments so we still i think at this time we we need more discussion to march two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "drafts so and uh and but we like to hear more uh comments and reviews from working group to give us uh like suggestion on the nlp modeling requirements part that's all thank you any comments questions so uh you commented uh about having some relationship with the um the draft that the policy draft it seems that there needs to be a really tight alignment between the two drafts because they're effectively uh controlling the same thing from different perspectives or different locations um what are your thoughts on that i think right now uh we haven't uh have the like conclusion yet but uh like from our side we think that most of the the components are quite common like data playing uh identifier and and all those components so all right so yeah oh go ahead go ahead uh yeah we think we need to merge into a one drop but uh keeping like a filter or customized way as different options so like we can cover a different topology creation uh options but uh but that's what i think yeah merging sounds quite sensible uh thank you okay thank you um i think greg is not in a thanks book um i think thanks to greg you get one minute back uh thanks everyone for a great session uh see you all in london thank you thanks everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "thank you all uh we"
  }
]
