[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "it says your life okay I believe in the microphone back on Murray is getting himself set up on jabber and he will watch ever and channel anyone who can\u0027t talk in mideco but please use me to echo if you can this is the Demark working group we are meeting in Brussels today Prague but Brussels if you\u0027re in Berlin please come to Brussels we\u0027re in Prague but we\u0027re in Brussels yes so yes I encourage those of you who are sitting in Berlin to come to Brussels and let\u0027s get started with Demark we have an hour I believe and then D Krupp comes in ten minutes later and you\u0027re all encouraged to stay for that we have a new note well and this is actually it referring to the new RFC 81-79 which has some changes over the old ones so if you are not familiar with the new changes in the in BCP 79 please make yourselves aware of them by looking at the RFC all I have on the slides beyond that is the agenda we are running slide lists from that have a look at the agenda where after this administrative stuff we\u0027ll have a little report from what happened at the hackathon and then how we\u0027re gonna handle IETF mailman to try to mitigate the many unsubscribes and at this point I will say as part of both of those that from here until we implement the mitigation in IETF mailman if you are posting from an address that has a reject policy and your posts cause "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:13",
    "text": "unsubscribes for other people on the mailing list I am going to ask you to post from a different address and if you don\u0027t I am going to block your address from posting I will repeat that on the mailing list but that is the policy for now you are disrupting the mailing lists operation and that will no longer be tolerated I don\u0027t know that\u0027s what I am doing we we will be we hope in September ish that we will be implementing a mitigation in mail men and then we will no longer have to do that but in the interim I\u0027m tired of dealing with the unsubscribes and it is a disruption to the operation of the working group so it qualifies for a minor chair action and that\u0027s what will happen then we\u0027ll talk about open issues with the arcs box including discussion of what the document status ought to be and then we will talk about how to handle enhanced reporting the the subtitle here is what should be reported in a Demark report when arc is involved then I put in a thing about deployment discussion maybe there\u0027s nothing to say about this but I would like to kick off a little discussion about that and then we talk about what we do next after the arc document which is the Demark usage document and Tim I believe is on remotely and and he will lead that and then I imagine we\u0027re going to be out of time but if not we\u0027ll see if there\u0027s anything else to talk about does anyone have anything they want to add to strike from or change on the agenda okay then we are done with slides and I better gender back up because otherwise I won\u0027t know what to what to do here let\u0027s just leave the agenda up so Kurt and or Steve I think I can chase it unless Steve wants to add in from the floor Mike I sent a summary of the hackathon work out to the list and to recap it without reading the whole note we had six or eight people we got a couple of we got testing done we got builds done we got a new forwarder thanks to Andreas in place and the fast mail guys made some good progress on their mail authentication Milt er in Pearl and we look forward to having that committed soon so that people can download the latest and greatest on that and make use of it I also had a conversation with John Levine which I do I don\u0027t see oh there you are that I think you\u0027re working on some sort of an implementation as well right in Perot so we\u0027re gonna have a couple new implementations live really soon and Alexei is working on one of his own and Chris Newman is working on one for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "Oracle messaging suite so there\u0027s quite a lot of progress going on in that regard and so I\u0027ll say on the hackathon that we were we will be planning to do another hackathon project before Singapore right if you like we can plan on that unfortunately I won\u0027t be able to attend you don\u0027t we don\u0027t all need to be there for it we can do hackathon participation remotely sure so for those of you who are not aware the IETF hackathon is held the Saturday and Sunday before the IETF meeting and is a way to get some coding done related to IETF projects IETF working group projects and this was the first time that the d mark people participated in yeah we can certainly sign up and and plan for it with IETF 100 again I\u0027m gonna be on vacation so I\u0027m not even gonna be on load so but Steve will be able to maybe all right we will see if we can crank up a hackathon project for Singapore so if you if you might have implementations or other work to do related to our core Demark keep it in mind please let us know on the mailing list and we can coordinate a hackathon project yeah sounds good and even before Singapore because I believe that\u0027s November we will indubitably have some sort of discussions or presentations at MOG which will be at the beat first week of October for anybody who\u0027s interested please stay tuned on the list and we can keep you posted on that right moving on if there\u0027s no questions or any any other comments about hackathon hearing nothing let\u0027s go on to mailman okay so Steve and Seth and I met with henrik and robert on tuesday they were very happy to hear about the progress with ARC and the fact that we had some implementations that would actually work for mailman too which is what is currently being run for the lists and they were looking for two specific things they were looking for stability regarding the on the wire content which I think that once we come out of the meeting today we will have achieved and with one more draft update to get this week\u0027s changes in and published and then the second thing they were looking for is a package for openSUSE that they can just install and track as a package that\u0027s been installed under s was kind enough to volunteer and I think that Seth is going to help drive for the packaging as soon as they have that then we\u0027ll work with them between now and and sometime soon to get that implemented and then we\u0027ll have the mailman lists for IETF ark enabled and when when is that likely to happen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "what do you think for having a package available guys late late August early September for the people who are remote is the are the words from the room and so but possibly sometime in September we might get that turned on for the IETF lists and then we\u0027ve also been working with the Magh Mela mailman administrator to get the MA glass which also run on mailman to ark enabled and I think that will probably be a little bit sooner for that is that yeah okay in sometime in the next couple of weeks we\u0027ll get the MOG lists so there\u0027ll be a first pass production run and then we\u0027ll follow up with openSUSE package and get it on the IETF lists but I believe we are still planning to implement ad mark workaround in the mailing list would you say something about that Alexi so henrik nearly finished his code he is basically doing packaging of he stopped and he\u0027s taking holidays in august so the plan is to try do experiments in september studying somewhere early september and the mitigation we have chosen is from blue writing i mean we did discuss we haven\u0027t actually officially decided between two strategies or from rewriting with message wrapping but the code is written for one of them and the other one requires mailman update anyway so you guys know are you running an old enough version of two that you don\u0027t already have the Deemer patches in the from because that has been Demark enabling of from rewriting has been in mailman too for quite a long time yeah I\u0027m not Henrik is the one who knows what we\u0027re running okay fair enough I don\u0027t okay all right notes from the floor or comments from the floor says it\u0027s a different sort of rewriting that Henrik is working on now of course one of the issues we have is as we try to do both of these that we still need to do the mitigation because even after we are ark enabled the recipients will not be ark enabled so I won\u0027t help and we\u0027ll need to do some interesting experiments with that of turning the mitigation on and off in order to experiment with with implementations on the receiving end it\u0027ll give us some good operational guidance going forward to health people who run similar setups yes okay any questions comments about that hearing none let\u0027s get into the orc specs okay so I have a half-dozen things here first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "off I\u0027ll run through a couple of settled issues that we\u0027ve sorted through in list discussion this week and will be reflected in the next release of the spec first one is whether or not it\u0027s mandatory to sign the archive in occation results within the ark message signature and we have decided no and I\u0027ve not seen any objections to that on the list so I\u0027ll consider that settled the second one is collapsing CV invalid into CV fail that was done a little while ago so that we will only have fun oh sorry do you want comments on these are you gonna went through the list then go through each of them in detail or do you want to stop and talk about each one as we go let me do the for settled issues first and then we\u0027ll take comments on oh please so the collapsing CV invalid into fail so that we only have a nun fail and past was done a couple of weeks ago before the deadline on submitting changes the last two are the arc or the authorization results authentication results are equals policy being added to the pass/fail methods and then the question of how to deal with multiple our author authentication results headers when you\u0027re doing an arc sealing I think that we\u0027ve talked it through and everybody agrees how to do it and it was just a matter of getting wording put in to consolidate them all into one and and stick them into the arc authentication results header so questions and feedback although I\u0027m sitting up front pretending this is the morph working group we I\u0027m just a participant here so about the not signing of aar which I support but it just occurs to me that we\u0027re going to have an installed base some of which does sign and expect that to be there and some that does not are we concerned about a period of interoperability is you know because it\u0027s optional so it\u0027s sorry you may sign it within the arc message signature but you don\u0027t have to arc message signature tells you which headers it is signing and so if you are signing the aar then you should be reporting it otherwise you\u0027re not going to be validating today so there\u0027s nothing out there insists that it be signed I would be an issue sorry that yes if if something is going to fail an arc message signature because it didn\u0027t cover enough headers but I\u0027m not aware of any of the current implementations that do so okay I think that was the only one I had okay deoxy covers anyway it does yes that\u0027s correct that\u0027s I was addressing a different point and that is that at the a if we\u0027re saying before is that AMS must cover AR and if suddenly something notice is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:20",
    "text": "it doesn\u0027t it might complain my question was around CEM failure yes you failed to validate because you have DNS issues I did not include that in the settled issues thank you for raising that that was that was another what you report area so there was some discussion on the list this week about how to deal with temp slash perm error type scenarios with DNS and the I it\u0027s not as far as consensus yet but the general theme seems to be that if you cannot resolve a signature because of DNS failures of whatever sort permanent or non permanent that you should either defer the message so for twenty one and not accept it and not have to worry about it until it comes back to you ultimately if the temporary failure is of long enough duration that the message is undeliverable because you\u0027ll never accept it then it\u0027ll go back to the sender and they\u0027ll know that their DNS is broken and that\u0027s I don\u0027t think that there\u0027s a value in putting a an arc result in that says hey I couldn\u0027t figure this out because the DNS wasn\u0027t cooperating because frankly if you\u0027re passing a message through let\u0027s take a mailman scenario it will within milliseconds if not seconds pass through your entire infrastructure and be out the back door if it\u0027s a temp fill that\u0027s that short or somebody\u0027s got a flakey name server out there okay maybe another query would sort it out maybe it wouldn\u0027t but there\u0027s no point in putting an arc chain said I don\u0027t know and pass it on Thanks and the southerner you just heard from who was not Kirk is brought gondwana please say your name when you speak at the microphone thank you another area in open area in the spec is cleaning up some of the language I am currently working on melding the working draft with Murray\u0027s proffered rephrasing of significant sections of it and so after the meeting I will be submitting that as the next version of the draft because Murray\u0027s version was quite a bit more succinct and many areas and I hope that it will be meaningful to people if people really hate it and prefer mine then we\u0027ll roll it back it\u0027s the lovely thing of get and there are some challenges as I\u0027ve been trying to come up with the wording on how we deal with algorithm evolution so dealing with the concept of a chain that spans multiple mediators and some of them want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:20",
    "text": "to sign with RSA sha-256 of whatever key length and some of them want to sign with an elliptic curve which isn\u0027t approved yet but we\u0027re going to talk about that in the next hour ish and how do we make a chain that can successfully survive multiple algorithms and algorithms in evolution is kind of an interesting challenge and how to phrase that so I\u0027m still grappling with that this is Murugan but we don\u0027t need to worry about that for version one right because what\u0027s gonna ship we\u0027ll have a complete set it\u0027s when we do some revision in the future that introduces a new algorithm that this will be a problem but the challenge is that if we write the arcs back today and then D Kim says well you could use this so you could use that or you could use the next thing and you should stop using this and move toward this over the next couple of years etc so anyway it\u0027s not a blocker for stability of on the wire it\u0027s just something that we\u0027re gonna have to figure out how you would authenticate a chain that might have a variety of algorithms within it so the other thing that has come up in talking through in the hackathon is getting better language around conveying trust within a trust boundary so you typically will receive a message and you\u0027ll check its authentication status including whatever arc may be on it when it comes in to you and then you do some stuff to it internally let\u0027s think about the mailman case and then you want to send it out and put an arc seal on it at the end that says when I received it it was good I messed it up and now I\u0027m sending it out the initial language in the spec wasn\u0027t clear on the fact that you have to evaluate chained validity status when it comes in would then put that on the result when it goes out many initial implementations we\u0027re putting a change status when it was received and separately computing a change status when it went out and they\u0027re basically saying oh it was good when I came in and now it\u0027s busted you deal with it and that\u0027s not the right model so let\u0027s see another thing is we had some discussion this week around signaling whether somebody participates in arc so whether they are volunteering I\u0027m a mediator kind of a thing and the general consensus was you couldn\u0027t trust somebody anyway so why worry about it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "but it does lead to the question of helping small receivers bootstrap their trust store if you like of who do they know is going to be a list server or a mediator that can be trusted and I think the hallway discussions kind of converged on that\u0027s not a spec issue and so we\u0027re gonna have to help people bootstrap outside of the spec which is good and then we\u0027ve got an open question around the AAR content and format which we\u0027ll cover kind of on my next set of areas with the enhanced reporting and then the last one is the standards track versus experimental question which I left for the end any questions before we get into the standards versus experimental and my question is what do you see as the time frame that this will be ready for working group last call we are now at July 20th I expect that I will submit a new draft tomorrow morning before I get on an airplane and would like to see us be able to go to last call by the end of the month if people can respond to that quickly so we\u0027re looking at roughly a week ish just these last issues resolved modulo the discussion we\u0027re about to have yes okay good let\u0027s ask everybody to be aggressive about responding and getting this sorted out so we can make that schedule Dave would you like to state your argument for using for making this experimental where we\u0027ve got the red button waiting for you there he is here\u0027s Dave go ahead and mash the button he is a blue ghost Dave you\u0027re on it is all right so the the suggestion I was making is that the this is not a criticism of the draft or the work or the idea or anything like that this is a feeling that the role of Ark involves dynamics and practices that need some experience and since this involves infrastructure service on the average when one isn\u0027t completely clear what the dynamics will be with an infrastructure change one wants to proceed cautiously and so my suggestion for how to proceed cautiously is to initially issue this as experimental and when the industry feels "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "that there is enough experience to write a substantive BCP on how arc should be used not based on theory but based on practice then the spec would be ready for four standards track and my concern in response to that is looking at the official idea of descriptions of what it means to be experimental is that I\u0027m concerned them I scare people off from well it\u0027s not worth us implementing because after all it\u0027s just an experiment and I think that we\u0027ve put enough work into it and we do have enough implementations already in practice at Google and AOL as the primary largest ones right now that it\u0027s worth moving on the standards track with it so and as as chair I\u0027ll throw in some process things that first of all we\u0027re afraid people won\u0027t implement it if it\u0027s experimental is not a reason not to make it experimental if experimental is the right status but the other side of it is that it\u0027s not black and white that it is a judgment issue if we think that this is ready for us to propose a standard realizing that it may be changed later then standards track may be the right thing but Dave\u0027s point about experience Before we jump is also a valid one so let\u0027s think about that and go ahead and discuss so this is right if we want to pursue the kind of aggressive timeline you\u0027re talking about what you\u0027re gonna have a draft this out a week we want to do or during your last call by the end of the month I lean very strongly toward experimental if we\u0027re willing to be more a little more patient than that get a couple more things out get some experience with other than huge operators then and we were to accept something like we\u0027re here your blast call will be in IETF last call let\u0027s say or maybe ad review someone where some stuff in there by Singapore I would I would be much more comfortable supporting a standards track interesting that this is very that\u0027s a I was expecting you to look for a more more protracted schedule the better it was part of the trade off I think Singapore would be fine to target Singapore instead of targeting next next month well if that would make a difference we realize that from the time we it leaves the working group it\u0027s still likely to be a couple couple three months before it\u0027s in RFC yeah so the the issue is one thing we could consider is whether putting out the RFC as soon as possible and making it experimental and then revising it in six or eight months to be standards track is appropriate or whether saying we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "gonna make it a stable draft and leave it in draft state for a while to get that feedback and then go to publication requested a standards track that\u0027s another possibility and part of that decision can be made based on where we think people were more likely to implement it and try it out Andreas they\u0027re sorta when I implemented Demark two years ago to Fazal reject I had conversations with numerous people\u0027s in Germany who are referring or what still not isn\u0027t a standard track so I won\u0027t implement it so I don\u0027t care about it so not being a standard track is amiss you the question about small receivers it was just mentioned yes do we have any experience about their willingness to implement or their their ability to implement given the bootstrap problem that was mentioned earlier we do we have some initial reports that there are some smaller operators that have implemented arc I don\u0027t know how many and we did have a training session that was done in Lisbon last month it\u0027s a mall meeting and I think the gentleman behind you in line may be able to comment further so if you guys want to do a trade thing and then I\u0027m sorry catch your name can you please really arts an artisan thank you Seth blank from Velma so we did an arc training at MOG and basically to bootstrap the issue there\u0027s basically a list that a bunch of the major receivers and some other report processors put together of the intermediaries that break mailing lists and it\u0027s a pretty well-known group of about 2,000 intermediaries and that this basically never changes and so we\u0027re really comfortable publishing that list publicly making it available for use it\u0027s a short-term fix to bootstrap the specific problem there needs to be a better solution long term but because of that I actually think that Dave has convinced me that experimental makes sense because this is where we\u0027re gonna have problems I think we\u0027ll know pretty quickly and pretty quickly within your three to six months where the issues come from if this works if we\u0027re having reputation it\u0027s used with small receivers and I think this is an experiment that we need to define but we can move to standards track within a few ifs if we don\u0027t efficiently then I then I have to question whether it\u0027s worth the overhead to publish experimental instead of staying as a stable draft for some period of time like very suggested right so the the decision point there is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "what we think will be best for implementations will they get the implementations we need if we leave it as a draft and announced to the world that it\u0027s a stable draft that isn\u0027t going to change but we\u0027re just waiting for feedback if we think that will get us enough implementations to do the experiment then we\u0027re fine if we think it needs to be an RFC even if that\u0027s experimental in order to get the implementations then we should go the other way yeah okay and from from what I\u0027ve heard publishing an RFC even if it\u0027s experimental I think will get people to implement and then we can review with data and see where it goes but that\u0027s one person well I\u0027m here right now as an example the HTTP to development was done the other way where they had cuts where they said this is an implementation draft and everybody implemented it but the difference is that all the major players were in the room there and we\u0027re all implementing it at that time we don\u0027t have that situation here do sense before you leave do you have any insight as a report processor about small operators who may have implemented how many may have implemented and have started reporting on Ark basis so not really I know Brandon\u0027s latest email was the beginning of June he was seeing zero people Ark signing to Google and by the end of June using about 200 unique D equals dr. Lanning okay I didn\u0027t I hadn\u0027t seen the 200 number so thank you he posted that to the d mark list okay Chris Chris Newman I reviewed you know so I\u0027ve read the draft and started work on implementing it and you know the art protocol draft you know I don\u0027t see anything that I suspect is wrong with the technical part of the art protocol draft now you know the reputation model that\u0027s where we have uncertainty but that\u0027s not gonna be standard track anyway in the first round of publication so let\u0027s just publish it standards track because you know at this point we you know generally I think it\u0027s experimental if there\u0027s something in the spec that I\u0027m not sure is going to work the protocol spec there isn\u0027t anything I know of that falls in that right I don\u0027t think anybody\u0027s arguing that the spec is technically immature or uncertain but to put words in Dave\u0027s mouth and he can correct me if I\u0027m wrong his point is that the effect that arc is trying to achieve is something we are uncertain about and we need to experiment with but the effect is not in the protocol stack okay that\u0027s that\u0027s the point I would make this is Marie and repeating something Jim said in driver we both are agreeing on the other hand in contrast to what Honduras said there are a lot of people who think that any RFC with any status is basically a standard there was a story posted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:22",
    "text": "set posted it and then a Facebook page this morning that someone referred to Demark as a standard even though it is purely informational and in fact has no IETF consensus right so that\u0027s right yeah and then well yeah Dave let us not comment on politicians and their technical acumen yeah and then Dave is next to the cue so here you go hi there so it\u0027s entirely possible that the spec is fine as is but I think there\u0027s a chance that that\u0027s not true and the reason is excuse me this is a transitive trust mechanism with sequential signing if people know of any operational real-time operations mechanisms in in use on the internet today that employs that kind of model of sequential signing in transit I don\u0027t know about it you know and if there is that operational experience it would be good to document that so the concern I have is not that the thinking behind this is wrong but that we don\u0027t know what the operational dynamics will be add to that then the the fact that the role of this mechanism in the trust for handling email is unique we we do not have any operational experience with this and as we get that experience we it\u0027s possible we will find that the spec needs changing the signatures might be more fragile than we want in deployed networks there may be some other problems that make this work less well than we\u0027d like and the fact of history with transitive trusts is not promising doesn\u0027t mean it won\u0027t work now but it means that we ought to be cautious about it the fact that there are people out there who don\u0027t understand what a standard an IETF standard is or the difference between standard and RFC has been touted as a problem for the entire history of the ITF the reality is the ITF has some rules for how it does labels we ought to pay attention to that rather than the fact that there are some people out there that don\u0027t understand it David do you you think that the real-time aspect of this is makes it substantially different from say key certificates so I believe sighs I believe certs are typically done statically maybe I\u0027m wrong about that but that\u0027s been my impression and and what how does that make the effect of it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:23",
    "text": "different and as you see it it\u0027s a completely different operational environment the the physics of the operation are quite different and oh by the way search don\u0027t work very well Becker you\u0027re just finding myself a little confused by the argument is offering I\u0027m certainly we have plenty of protocols for digital sinners are performed in real time that\u0027s how like TLS works was the time at this point that\u0027s not what I said it\u0027s not treating was a problem I said sequential sign Heidi hi Dave we get on there finish thank you so as I was saying this we have lots of little shiny that in real time I\u0027m not quite sure I sequential signing it\u0027s different um I started Peterson hearing why um so I mean like you know you could certainly say for instance that we don\u0027t know that when we\u0027re rolling on up we\u0027re rolling on a protocol um you know we don\u0027t have protocol with this exact sequence of bits before and so we have no experience with that so um I think think you do a little bit more in terms of why this particular thing is different um I\u0027m so they opened up here why I don\u0027t have a brief for this particular protocol I just try to understand the situation so so in what ways sequential different from from another question signing Dave that that goes to such a fundamental point about networking dynamics that I\u0027m not quite sure how to respond to it it it\u0027s a little bit like saying oh because we\u0027ve done something once doing it many times won\u0027t be an issue so okay I just must be exceptionally stupid which I suppose is quite possible but I really do think there\u0027s not much of an answer it wasn\u0027t much of a question adjust so the view that networking dynamics is trivial because we\u0027ve done one kind of thing and we\u0027re now doing something that is a different dynamic and and forgive me if I think that signing something doing a series of signatures that depend on each other is a fundamentally different dynamic than doing a single signature I can\u0027t comprehend seeing that as anything other than different and so I don\u0027t know how to explain to you I mean my in point of fact this is like trying to prove a negative I don\u0027t know whether this will work well I can understand that it might but I also can understand that it might not we don\u0027t have any operational experience with this dynamic yeah hi rich Akamai um if you do this signing as part of the similar between the store and forward I don\u0027t see how it does any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:23",
    "text": "way for it to get out of order and like Eric maybe I\u0027m just a little ignorant certainly much more ignorant of respect and I should be but yeah it\u0027s part message processing it isn\u0027t a question of getting out of order as much as it is of will it actually I think the big question is will it accomplish fixing the problem that we are intending to have it fix is there and and the point is it\u0027s a dependent chain right each signature depends on what came before it but sort of received headers so I think it\u0027s a wash I don\u0027t think it\u0027s an issue from gondwana fast now so I actually asked a question earlier which goes directly to this point what happens if you can\u0027t do a DNS lookup halfway along the chain if you\u0027re rejecting it from the first sender find you 400 it until it fails if you\u0027re rejecting a halfway down the chain who\u0027s it bouncing back to that that is a question that we do have to think about well if if we\u0027re looking at a mediator being a mailing list then presumably it would be sitting in the outbound queue of the mailing list processor if you\u0027re looking at somebody doing a more of a dot forward type forwarding again it would be sitting in their queue where does it bounce back to well probably postmaster frankly in most implementations to come out from the mailing lists then it\u0027s going to cause a bounce failure and going to cause that person the receiver to be removed from the mailing list when the actual faults is the DNS records of the sender which brings us right back to the issue that we currently have with the Demark list that people who are sending from incorrectly or strictly configured domains are causing other people to be removed from the list and that would actually be the same failure mode interesting point yeah okay Dave I\u0027m gonna let this go on for another four minutes and then we need to move on so sort of curse to me we do curse to me we have one operational example of problems with signing and that is that dkm is designed in a way which should work just fine from client to client from the author to the recipient but operationally the experience is it doesn\u0027t it works from the originator to the receiver and generally doesn\u0027t survive within the enterprise that\u0027s just one example it not the sequential signing I\u0027m talking about but it\u0027s it points out the fact that signatures can turn out to be fragile when going through a sequence of handling sites agreed I\u0027m again I\u0027m still I think that that is more of an operational aspect and it isn\u0027t necessarily an indictment of the technical protocol but there\u0027s no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:26",
    "text": "indictment anywhere here it\u0027s just a question of whether we are best served by announcing that this is an experiment that needs some answers before we propose something final right and I guess I am gonna have to defer to the experience of the chairs and and our ad as far as how they think this debate should be resolved because I think it\u0027s we need more discussion so I\u0027d like to ask Alexei to have a final comment on this topic what are you what are your thoughts as someone who has been tasked with leading us I\u0027m not sure I form my opinion as a director my personal opinion pick one hmm damned if this if this issue came up let\u0027s say we went with standards track and this issue came up in iesg evaluation where the iesg was discussing whether we should experiment with it first do you have any thoughts on how that would go and what you would where you where you would lean or do you want to think about it and reply to the list yeah that\u0027s fair well one question actually that sort of may be related to this is we can ask for operational ops Directorate review and genus people review to see if they see any other things that we haven\u0027t thought about yet oh is worth Duryea so we can ask early review I\u0027ll just the comment from Tim on Jabar operationally email is vast it makes sense to me to put out protocol and asked for feedback in an experimental context this Murray experiments if we do decide to go experiment on what there\u0027s plenty of reasons to do it that way we should just be very clear about you know how long the experiments gonna run how will we collect the results how will apply them right and that to me that is part of the question as I\u0027ve been trying to prepare for the meeting here is that if we did and if we called it an experiment what would be our criteria for decision as to whether that passed or not right we need to be clear about what results we need to get in order to evaluate Dave ooh they went away okay I was gonna say last comment before we move on but if not you want to wait I can ask is G about you know try to describe not now Dave go ahead and David final comment sorry I just wanted to add in response to the the criteria for going the standards track what what I proposed and I\u0027m continuing to think makes sense is when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:26",
    "text": "there\u0027s comfort to write a usage document that says this is how you use arc in operational service and it describes not just the implementation of the the mechanism but the integration of the mechanism into email operations when there\u0027s comfort with writing a version of that that has substance then the spec will be stable good final comment Thanks okay I\u0027m going to skip my so Curt if you want you can have a seat Tim\u0027s up next I\u0027m gonna skip my deployment discussion oh oh shoot I forgot that one so all right can you do that in five minutes yes I think so okay so we have enhanced reporting guys okay so question around enhanced reporting has come up and the crux of the issue as I\u0027ve been noodling on it and talking in the hallway is is that the authentication results header was initially posited to be feedbag to a human consumer and what we\u0027re looking at in the AAR and the d mark reporting is feedback to a machine essentially ultimately it goes back to the operator but it is it is mechanically mediated and so as such there are a couple of data points that are desired for the initial sender in order to be able to troubleshoot problems in they\u0027re sending infrastructure those are specifically the IP that it came out of and the selector that was employed in initiating the chain and I think that actually carries through the entire arc sequence so every mediator can have the same sort of a problem that occurs and therefore adding those two pieces of information the source IP and the selector into the reporting data set would help people in troubleshooting they\u0027re sending infrastructures we would propose to add that in there is an open question about how that gets formatted into we don\u0027t necessarily want to put it into the 70601 authentication results header because again that\u0027s designed for an individual person to consume as a client receiver of the message but how we carry it through and get it into the AAR and how that\u0027s formatted is open to question Marie we\u0027re not quite sure if you were joking when you suggested putting it in inline JSON but a few people have said hey that\u0027s a really good idea all right we\u0027re getting rejections from the floor or why it because the comment could be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:29",
    "text": "formatted as inline JSON why not anyway okay so we\u0027re gonna have to have some honest we\u0027ll take it to the list as far as how we get these things incorporated into the AAR the other questions are when and where to report with ARC every step ought to be reporting back to the sender that\u0027s going to result in multiple reports for a single message but that\u0027s up to the report consumer systems to consume and consolidate and that probably isn\u0027t going to be a problem although we\u0027re having some some people having whiplash here at the front desk and I think that was the the crux of the question around enhanced reporting so format is really the open question and then how if at all do we change the format and structure of the Demark report in order to accommodate arc and and potentially other extensions right now it\u0027s largely unformatted as to how those things are specified in the XML and whether we need to improve that or specify it in some fashion as part of moving Demark toward standards track it\u0027s kind of an open question we can take it up on the list okay are there any quick comments about what Kirk just went over okay chef Blanc Bella Mel I think it\u0027s important in the current spec before it goes to final call to get in what\u0027s transmitted and how but I think we can actually do the reporting methods before the update to Demark in a later spec I don\u0027t think we need to necessarily that into this because that feels complicated and potentially uh that just will take some extra time may need some additional work yeah I agree we don\u0027t want to burden this one or bog this went down with getting that done I like saying so in comments about previous discussion about experimental standards track and how it affects our plan the bran is still you know you publish a new document within a week we still go to working Plus : well assuming it\u0027s close enough and them as in did this doesn\u0027t affect the short-term timeline anyway if we can do the last the working group last call with this open question hanging over our head and that\u0027s fine yeah I think we can the the only thing that might it might affect is we might if we choose to delay publication and leave it as a as a stable drow we can decide that after working group last call that\u0027s finest part right to Klesko ya know from okay then Tim Tim posted a list of things to the to the mailing list and to get the discussion about the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:32",
    "text": "usage document going on when you read it but Tim go ahead and start talking sure I actually have a comment about the past discussion item number five am i coming through okay great hey just about the arc work and how it affects D mark reporting there was some lists traffic that was was was making arguments about what the contents of arc should be to enable certain kinds of D mark reporting it\u0027s really hard to follow the argument though if we don\u0027t really know what the desired e mark reporting looks like so it\u0027s kind of hard to flip it around and say hey we need this without actually talking about what needs to be a Demark report so yeah I family really need to push the rest of this to the list because I want time for the usage document discussion we only have eight minutes left ah okay all right I just wanted to say that it\u0027s hard to put one thing before the other and follow the arguments if we don\u0027t really know that the end goal is all right okay so the d mark usage document a couple days ago I posted a summary to the list this all began with hey let\u0027s not make usage guide unless sweet unless we really need it the the archive it\u0027s from the 17th of July feel free to look it up in the archive it\u0027s also be posted to the list to summarize the state of the work I think philosophically the need for a usage guide probably follows a prior discussion in this own forum our protocols pushed out experience is gathered and then you push for a standards track document so the way I see it is a usage guide would be important so we could go through collect operational experience codify it in some way in the form of a document and then push it out and so this argument was pushed to the list and said and and the the pushback was well if there\u0027s something if there\u0027s something new that needs to be shared then then maybe we should to look look at making a usage guide so I\u0027ve gone through and collected a few questions in the summary email and that\u0027s where it is right now there\u0027s a small collection of people that want to contribute to the usage guide but it\u0027s still essentially being bootstrapped I\u0027ve tried to facilitate the process by identifying people from different parts of the email ecosystem and getting them to share their experience there\u0027s only been two these kind of interviews so far pushed to the list I personally find them valuable but if the rest of the working group does not and the feeling is that hey if after the ark work is far enough along to move to the next stage of the Demark working groups charter that is working on Demark the technical spec is a standards track document then it doesn\u0027t make sense to tie up the working group with this work so I\u0027ll put it out to the to the group now if a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:32",
    "text": "usage guide is worth working on it makes sense to do it now with sort of a focused effort otherwise if there\u0027s no real traction within the working group itself this work could go on somewhere else a different context I I personally feel that the IETF is set up to do exactly this kind of work so why not dude in this context so let me start the objection that was raised was that there\u0027s there are already a lot of places to look for guidance on using Demark why should we do another one is there is there anybody who wants to stand up and support that argument and say no there\u0027s enough of this stuff out there already we don\u0027t need to spend our time seeing none I\u0027ll ask a pet pup kurtz up Curt Anderson you got to give us time to get to the mic yeah I I think that there is a considerable set of existing documents and training materials some of which you can find on the Marge not all of which but there\u0027s also training on the MOG website publicly available around deployment it doesn\u0027t necessarily collect sort of the operator experience stories that I\u0027ve seen tim collecting and reporting to the list but is a set of anecdotal reports from operators really what we\u0027re talking about in terms of usage BCP RFC document and so you you see anything we do as not adding value or not adding enough value to that that\u0027s why I think that collecting anecdotal reports and and sort of field reports of how people have put Demark into place is can be valuable but I\u0027m not sure that that qualifies exactly as a usage document so that\u0027s that\u0027s worth seeing as GF document it seems more like something to publish as a series of sort of here\u0027s what we did and here\u0027s what we found anecdotal reports write him rosette that the interviews that I\u0027ve been doing and publishing to list that\u0027s that\u0027s not the the final form I was just trying to get people to start sharing their operational experience but in response a response in two parts one I think that there are certain parts of the email stream that are underrepresented in terms of documentation and how to interoperate with Demark basically email receivers I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a lot of support for them personally if you\u0027re a domain owner there\u0027s lots of help commercially free "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:33",
    "text": "and otherwise to get Demark implemented but email receivers have very little in the form of resources the second part would be email service providers that are sending email on behalf of others the advice and guidance is pretty spread out so that that\u0027s there\u0027s an underserved and basically underrepresented parts of the ecosystem that don\u0027t have this kind of documentation the second thing is I think that the IETF in the form of a BCP document getting published and giving an RFC number is an idea vehicle to be the source of truth for any kind of usage guidance channeling Jim Fenton given that D mark has significant operational issues which is why arc exists shouldn\u0027t we be discussing an arc operational discussion document instead instead or in addition or combined Aleksei just about if there is assuming people are interested in in working on the usage guide type information we don\u0027t necessarily have to publish it as RFC you know it\u0027s still it\u0027s still you and we can end up with a wiki or something like that so all right the RFC is being in our stable documents that don\u0027t change very often ah well that that don\u0027t change and that can get out of date you know shouldn\u0027t be the reason not to do the work that\u0027s that\u0027s there sure my view on that in this case is that if the document if we ultimately want to have the working group make a statement about usage recommendations I think an RFC is the right place for it but I was going to go part way in that direction and say Tim what do you think about continuing work on this for now and not making the decision and deferring the decision about whether publish it too later after the working group gets a chance to see how it develops and what is in it are you willing to work on it with the idea that it might not be published if the working group decides the content isn\u0027t sufficient yes I don\u0027t think the work is is gonna go anywhere to me it\u0027s a question of I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t think the work is gonna stop being worked on it\u0027s just a question of how it gets published okay then my proposal is that we continue working on it with the idea that it might not wind up as an RFC that the working group publishes depending on what the content winds up being okay and there are a lot of nods from the room so that seems good and that is the end of our time I\u0027ll just ask if anyone in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:34",
    "text": "room or on Medeco has any final comments and Marie would you read button Tim Kurt looking at the steps that were set forth in the Charter for the group the goal was ultimately to get Demark to standards level when we complete arc at whatever state we put it into operation I know there\u0027s been some concern from the chairs that we continue making progress in this group and what is it that we need to do in order to continue making progress beyond arc toward getting Demark on standards track set did you have a comment or researching will take has come in to the list I\u0027ll say as in as the chair managing this stuff and you know not having any more say than that my view is that we should not be making Demark a standards track document until we have something we can do in Denmark to actually address the mailing list problem I think we really need to spend our I\u0027m thinking about what we can do to do more than just patch it up with something like Ark but actually have a mitigation in in the Demark spec maybe that\u0027s not realistic in which case we can rethink it but let\u0027s think along that line where can we go in the spec that will make the spec a standards track thing that doesn\u0027t damage existing long-term usage on the Internet it\u0027s a challenge for us and Murray has just I know that there have been issues identified with the mark that we will eventually want to address in a standard track version would it be appropriate to begin collecting those and the trackers if so if you have those go add them to the tracker yes we certainly before we actively start work on a standards track version we can do the preparatory stuff and we do have what okay and we do have a wiki to work with on that the whole dies given the D mark has significant this is Jim Fenton given the D mark has significant operational issues which is why arc exists right Oh wrong one sorry ah Jim I\u0027d be interested in seeing a split between the reporting and policy aspects of D mark make them separate documents okay and we are out of time plus three minutes so thanks everybody and in seven minutes D crop begins if you have not signed the d mark blue sheet please do and I\u0027ll find it when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:37",
    "text": "you\u0027re done you "
  }
]