[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "um all right I'm gonna give you guys a minute and then we'll get started so Roman thank you yes oh is that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "okay we'll get started in in one minute but while while I give you the one minute for the couple folks who are trying to get settled we do need a second note taker we cannot get started because the one note taker is new and has not taken ietf notes before well that quieted the room so I will take that as a sign that we can go ahead and get started at least with some of the logistics so uh good afternoon good morning and good evening to all of those who are here present and participating remotely you are in the remote attestations and procedures um working group so if you join remotely or in this room and are not expecting to talk about rats you may be in the wrong place otherwise welcome to the session next slide Ned okay so hopefully you are all familiar with the note well um I will not read this this is just the ietf procedures that we should all be following both in attendance as well as in the authorship of the documents in review next slide please okay so this is a quick link oh for some reason I updated the slides it it is ietf 115 London so I think he's looking at the older version because I did update the slide um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "yeah he's just referencing his the the first deck um so anyway these are all of the links that you can um reach out to for um for the proceedings for this session next slide okay so reminder uh to reiterate we do have ietf procedures we also have a code of conduct so please keep the conversations professional um and uh so again I'll let you read through this um but just be courteous when you open up for discussion whether on the chat in the mail or here in person uh next slide please okay so we are now in the agenda bashing so please look over the agenda and um I am now going to speak as an individual contributor because I am an author of The unencrypted CCS draft and we did an update that Karsten I think you're going to report on so my request and I'm going to ask my co-chairs as an individual contributor can we add five minutes to provide an update on the UCCS draft and we can do that at the end okay so we'll add it at the end okay I now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "relinquish and I'm back on chair Michael you're in the queue uh I at least have no chat Echo interface I will take backup notes but not having chat means it's probably I did not even notice that I think yeah I mean I I put a hello there and I saw it but um thanks for noting that and given that we don't have chat Jabber okay uh is somebody willing to be job or scribe excellent thanks Michael so Rakesh you've got a backup note taker um okay Brendan you are in the queue uh yeah I uh sent some slides in very very late um it's just a uh update on what's going on with suit reports which is sort of tangentially related to rats so I thought I'd bring an update if that's helpful how much time do you need five minutes maybe okay I did not see those slides I sent it to rat's chairs uh what time and when uh earlier today Ned and Kathleen did you by any chance get them I'm checking my inbox so it looks like they're there I haven't uploaded them however so uh we can upload them later so Brendan we can just have Brendan um project the slides okay yeah you're gonna run it if you can upload them to the data tracker I'll upload them then we could just approve it yeah okay thank you oh yeah that's true okay as you can tell my brain's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "entirely here okay any other agenda Bash going once going twice and this is excellent we have two note takers so I think we are ready to roll yep I'm not seeing anyone and Michael I'm presuming you're not seeing anything on jabber either comments and he's he's not commenting okay so um let's go ahead and move it to Lawrence on the eat update all right hello so draft 17 was published uh just at the cutoff date um draft 17. uh really has no open issues or uh the eat authors do not believe any further changes are needed um as a draft 17. so a few uh comments on that so next slide please next slide so the this this is a I'm going to take a few minutes and discuss the the the major changes in draft 17 just in case to point them out um uh so one of them is that the nonce was made optional um and uh that's so you can use time based there were some general uh improvements around um uh yeah so we lost the slides here some general improvements around uh freshness in the nonsense"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Ned is sharing the slides so is it that I have to share them oh it should be coming up huh because I can see them I mean we were okay for until just a minute ago yeah yeah I went to full screen is it not projecting yeah that that yeah it's not projecting how about now yeah there we go we're good Ned that's interesting it looks better on the remote before that but okay I won't yeah I won't project something with the browser so back back one slide please so the uh um the other thing that was a change uh this is these are the semantic changes you know that would affect actually actually affect the code you write as an implementation um so uh another change was the uh the input to the digests for a sub module uh detached Digest so the there was a more more clear specification on that um uh we also changed the way that sub module digests are identified I mean this has got to do with the how things are in seabor and Json and the fact that Json doesn't have tags so that's another the implementation is a lot cleaner now there was some overloading before um and then the security level claim was removed so these are the major implementation changes uh next slide then there were uh lots of wording changes uh just clarifications um uh we describe eat as a framework right up front you know that that uh uses profiles it's uh kind of you know that came a lot a lot from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "comments from Elliott we need to redirect to the right security model right away so we're not trying to describe the security model in eat um the sub module section was Rewritten for clarity and brevity there was a couple sections removed that were uh you know not necessarily essential like describing how you how to include public uh public keys and claims um mentioned of the CTI and jti claims it was just advice that was removed uh there's a clarification that submods can be used for both evidence and results um and then we added non-normative reference to UCCS um so we you know we had UCCS in there as a kind of a normative reference that it was gone and now it's back as non-mormative that's uh and then uh next slide um which is um security considerations and privacy uh considerations were updated so there's a section on freshness and security considerations there's a section on claim trustworthiness uh and then there's also some discussion about CTI and GTI that was removed so with that I'm going to jump into open issues and see how far we can get on these next slide um so uh the eat authors believe no changes are needed to resolve any of the issues the following issues you know that's not to say there will never be another change to eat of course but um uh so next slide and I believe we're now into uh the uh lots of slides individual slides one per issue um uh the spreadsheet issues uh numbers one through seven were taken care of at the virtual interim so we're kind of picking up where we left off there um so this is uh uh Issue Number Eight"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "um from that list that spreadsheet list um uh uh and I'm going to describe the issue and then stop for comments uh so we hopefully can close it out uh here at least uh in the room um and then you know I guess we wait a little bit for comments on the list so it's also there but these these also this basically parallels the email I sent about a week ago with a big list of issues so okay so Issue Number Eight um uh Elliot in his review uh was concerned about the software name field being freeform it doesn't it's just a text field where you put whatever you want in um we uh after Elliot's comment we improved the wording in draft 14 to make it clear that this is uh definitely a free form field um and don't expect it to be structured or any kind of rigorous definition and if you want a rigorous definition for uh software that you can really strong identifiers or Clara identifiers use spdx Cyclone DX or ghost with their art lots of other options there so this is probably more of a human uh human readable software name so that this has been around uh there's been no feedback on this one way or the other so um no objections no comments no nothing back from Elia so so uh let's stop for comments on on that okay we're gonna take no comments as approval by the way thumbs up from Dave yep okay okay thanks next slide please uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "I don't remember what the comment was on number nine but uh it was about security level and security level has been removed so I think that settles that Roman um so I did not track that so we removed the claim outright from the document yes it's gone and so the early registration we have for it we just want to disappear it was never never registered early ah perfect forgot that thank you yeah we only registered a small set remember yeah okay next slide please so in the in this one uh Elliott had requested improved wording on the dloa's claim just clarifications I don't think it was anything of substance um so that uh that wording was improved in draft 14 which was published in July and so no comments since so I'm just gonna pause you here for a second um so thank you taro the chat is now working so those are remote if they want to provide comments can do that that way as well okay thanks so uh we consider this uh nothing no further action needed here so comments okay uh uh so and then uh back around I think Elliott requested the edition of claims that uh these are actually manifest software manifest claims for spdx and Cyclone DX uh those claims were added in draft 14 those also include uh I think it's Co-op"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "and uh my uh content types for those two so the E document registers content types for those in order to be able to reference them in manifests uh so no comments since July on that so okay manifests is a plugable thing so you can if you don't like these you want want more you can do that uh so um next issue lost it and then we lost so I'm gonna keep talking um so that was section section 9.2 was a bunch of information we collected very early on I remember discussions in Montreal about what characteristics claims should have should we reuse old formats or or what and it was it was a good discussion so that was captured and and that text was all put in section 9.2 in the Ina section um but it's not really expert review uh and it's not setting any criteria it's just kind of advice to people creating claims so uh the I believe uh Elliott and somebody else said that you know Ayanna would not know what to do with this I think Diana looked at it and said we don't know what to do with this so just moved all of that text to an appendix that's not normative that was done in draft 14. if there is a GitHub issue open related to this that I will get back to but this this really pertains it to it not being directed at Ayanna anymore okay uh next Ned left and came back so okay you should be back um so Elliot had a section in his comments that he titled minor issues and knits"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "um most of them were directed against against the introduction uh uh he considered the minor um uh but we did do major work on the introduction in drafts 14 15 and 17. so I think the introduction is uh much cleaner now and you know orients the readers more now that this is a framework and that um it's we're not defining the security model here that the security model is elsewhere and you know expect to understand profiles and and uh that profiles our core part of the work here so uh I think that should more than address Elliot's comment comments okay next uh so spreadsheet Issue Number 14 to number 15 we're both uh we're comment blocks one from honest and one from Michael the spreadsheet didn't list them all out individually and um um so uh but there were lots of really helpful comments we most of them were wording clarifications and and uh I guess they've led to some other other uh changes like I think the public key removal was in there and the and all that all that anyway there's dozens of changes were made uh because of those two comment blocks um and the remaining issues from from those are now in GitHub and I'll present them later um but uh you know happy to you know if you want to honest and Michael please if you want to cross check that's fine too uh next well so the question is have you conferred with Thomas and Michael on the changes uh mostly yeah yeah honest you're yeah okay okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "yeah I think there were two rounds from Johannesburg so okay uh next please did we lose you Ned now we're got 16 here okay uh so this was uh I don't think this yeah this was identified in the spreadsheet um it was a discussion topic uh about whether you know message types this had had uh to do with um the fact that the UCCS was uh is defined outside the document so we had to put in a cddl socket so that the the top level message types of cwt JWT UCCS are uh in in the cddl definition are a socket so you can plug other message types in um there was concern that was to open um the resolution in the document was that new uh eat message types must be ietf standards and we believe that closed the issue out on the mailing list you get on the mic Thomas Versace I raised this issue and it was closed I'm sorry I haven't updated you I'm saying okay that's all right but it was thumbs up since the first change we didn't show that we did okay so you're okay with the changes is what you're doing absolutely yes thanks thank you all right next please uh another one uh about security level uh again the claim was removed so um no issue here and uh next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "uh this was issue number 18 in the spreadsheet uh this referenced some messages on the mailing list I think I think Hank was involved in the discussion um on this uh we sought clarification for what the issue was and and there was never never became clear what what the issue is so at this point oh we can't do anything until uh some uh you know there's some clarification of what the issue actually is have you reached out to Eric uh I'm just looking at the was it Row 18 I'm just looking to see who the commenter was uh I think oh sorry never mind I think I asked for I think I asked for clarification on the mailing list a couple times and on the endorsement yeah I mean Hank this is your comment so yeah uh well we listed it as Row 18 on the spreadsheet um no just hold on there's no there's no issue number it's it's just you you sent that on an email on the 8th of June yeah okay all right uh I think next slide please so I'm just going until you tell me I'm out of time so well we've got time so I was going to let you spill over okay all right just just like I said I'm just gonna keep going until we hit the end or you tell me to stop so yep um so uh this is uh a uh a GitHub issue basically the the the issue requested improved text for nonce and freshness um so they're uh there were changes mated made uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "in draft 14 and I believe in 17 also um no I think 14. um uh so uh because uh freshness and nonsense are a topic everybody cares uh dearly about um and we really want to make sure we we get this Clean and Clear um we have been leaving the issue open um and asking for comments on that and if you want to review what it says about freshness is freshness and nonce uh just search for freshness and knots in the document it's probably easier than trying to look at diffs just look at what the text is there and and uh make your comment so this is really more of a a request for comments at this point does anybody want to make a comment about freshness or not Hank is moving Hank are you getting on the queue thank you hey this is Hank I'm actually moving because I found the other thing now I'm looking at freshness requests okay we'll take your comment either way whichever I would ever have to come I have to come back to this one so I'm answering the other ones so I'm sick Venture here okay you're coming back to this project yeah number 18. yep um you are using the word attestations which is not indistinguishable between a message on an action never do this ever in the document so also I assume that uh some of the claims are actually endorsements and and then and then calling them all again attestations is like hyperly confusing to me so that is was my initial problem with it um going for a unified endorsement at a station design so is endorsement an action or a message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "is attestation a message or an activity and what does the design here makes absolutely no sense to the reader for me I'm as the reader here at back at that day I have not checked to be honest the current ID quality if it even is well in colloquial language distinguishable what attestation even means and so um my assumption is that it is often confused between an action and a message and and and I think that is not helpful when you um talking about a message format and as we assume that you always mean a message but from text sometimes um it feels like a like activity to me and I can never really tell and that that is I think my the the the the the the comment of number 18 was my question what are attestations and and that is I think the core of the this the simple question I I just asked there you mean in Context to the draft yeah exactly so it should be very clear that an attestation only in the scope of this document means uh messages that are originating from my testers and if they're originating from other rows must be very clear which role from the Reds architecture is emitting that message and that it has nothing to do with an activity I think that is something very fundamental here and that is what was very confusing in the email coming from you Lawrence on the uh Junes the 6th which I was reacting to and that's why that's why I made this comment on the role 18 apparently okay so let's let's break some things down here to try to clarify so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "endorsement I mean and and sticking to the what's in the draft so when it the the eight draft doesn't Define anything to do with anything to do with endorsements it mentions them a couple of times yeah um and only uh using the definition that is in rat's architecture okay that that's a message okay so it doesn't you know it just I think the endorsement is mentioned in the appendix maybe that's it I I mean you could search it but I don't we we definitely try to sidestep anything to do with endorsements and only say but we have to because so this is not endorsements would it help if you just put an asterisk or say the endorsements as defined in the architecture draft uh it's very it's I mean no I think that's already clear because that's clear there is a terminology section that defines endorsement and it is a copy of what's in the architecture draft right so I think that's pretty clear now your thing about attestation as an activity or something else um now you're talking in reference to an email I sent which is not the draft exactly yeah okay so harness you have to get on the Miracle queue sorry Dave beat you to it so um I mean we can't Dave Taylor my question is actually for Hank um I did a search for the word attestations with an s in the document it occurs exactly once in the each spec right now and it's not in the context of endorsements so I'm going to read it to you and the question is do you have a problem with this text and if so can you come back to the mic so this is in the intended use claim and uh it says certificate issuance certificate authorities or Cas may require attestations prior to the issuances of certificates related to key Paris hosted at the entity yeah do you need that word change and if so raise your comment in context of that sentence because this is not about it it's not not about not about endorsement so it's probably not row 18. it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "thank you Dave that's an excellent example this is probably means attestation evidence or education results of the whole procedure I see okay okay or both or yeah yeah okay then there's only remnants back in the days it was way more vague but if that's the last remarant of that that is easier to remediate it okay uh yeah let's uh sure we can we can fix that so Carl are you coming up to speak as a co-author so you are allowed to come back and respond you don't need to get no um yeah um verification um I wanted to come back oh it's basic question on the earlier issue about the nonsense and the freshness aspects um I proposed some text and I was wondering whether you took that text or you proposed somebody so whether I should review it uh well uh maybe it was long ago yeah I can't remember okay uh what what uh text you proposed or and what we used um but I I'd say uh I'm a double check do you know search for knots and search for freshness yeah I don't think it's more than 10 sentences altogether Okay so and then you'll see the whole you get the big picture and and know if it's if we're we hit it or not the endorsement thing was largely killed before I I got to the mic but just to make sure it stays dead as I was reading the the mail chain I think this is all based in the security level stuff which is already gone because it's gone right so I think most of the endorsement stuff okay that emanated from that thread was was rooted in security level which is no more okay well the question is the text should have been removed then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "so no longer available right I think the the email thread was in in the context of security level right right well that's what it yeah yeah there's nothing left in the document so this issue 18 is basically turned into uh any issue about the intended use claim and the its use of the word uh attestations so okay uh next I think we're jumping ahead to now because we got the freshness thing yeah okay secure boot uh so this was a an issue filed by Honest um the current text requires uh the secure boot the definition of a secure claim requires that the booted software be under the control of the OEM the proposed text which this says doesn't relax as that and doesn't require the Buddhist software to be under control of anybody in particular it just requires the use of secure boot um you know us authors prefer the current text um I'll also point out that this this definition of the security claim has been in the in the document since uh draft five uh December 2020 and it was also the text approved for pre-allocation so let's take comments on that Dave's getting on the queue you're in the queue then my apologies to harness I'm trying to press buttons too fast um I don't know what the proposed text was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "unless it's like I don't think it's on the screen right now um although um I think there is a valid argument here that uh some secure boot is not necessarily the OEM um if you think of a case where say an Enterprise buys a device and the Enterprise wants to be the one that actually controls the secure boot process rather than the OEM I think that's a valid scenario um and so I think I probably would like but I can't say whether I like the proposed X better without it being on the screen yeah but I would say that I think that the current text May in fact after thinking about I think the current text may be too narrow right so so my response to that is it doesn't it just means you can't use this claim it doesn't mean you can't use secure boot um it just so you're saying we should Define another claim that's a superset of this one and then oems will be confused as to which one to use well the other the the other question I have is so because then you could call this one OEM secure boot or something like that and then yeah yeah if you consider yourself an oem use this one if you don't consider yourself an oem use the other use another one that might be definable yeah I think I mean actually in the discussion in GitHub I propose that maybe this should be renamed to OEM authorized boot or something like that yeah so so I'd say yes that would be acceptable so I'd say either okay rename it or expand it without the rename but don't leave the generic name with them yeah and the other thing is I don't know what to do what meaning how to define the meaning of just a secure boot unless it's you say who controls that I just don't know what that that what that what that would look like right so and I'm a huge fan of the approach it says if you don't have consensus on it like yesterday then leave it to an extension document open the base one and so I think it's perfectly fine for you to respond saying we're not going to put the more generic one in this document that's going to be in an extension that can add that I love that style of answer we did the same thing in suits so I I I I like that approach and so I think the rename is probably the simplest uh least effort"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "thank you honest yeah so what the document says is secure boot is considered enabled when the firmware and operating system are under the control of the manufacturer of the entity identified in the OEM ID claim okay and um like for me secure boot is a it's a kind of a more technical term where you almost always you start the sun non-mutable immutable code which is like some run code in ROM and then you and also have some keys there and then you verify the next stage and then that verifies then the next stage uh so this whole notion of um controlling something is is I think I I didn't quite understood what that practically means like when do I then claim that I'm using secure put versus not because even with mesh output you could you could argue that you are controlling the other things uh May well be uh but it's not secure put right like under what condition can I can I uh say that I'm really controlling the other software the the the different layers of uh software that comes firmware and and maybe there might be bootloaders uh as it is used in practice and then like that's what I that's what my question was to in that that regard so let me respond to that uh a bit um so you know if you think of something as complex as a mobile phone uh with an app download system and you can you know run JavaScript in the browser and all that so you can't say controls all the software stack from from right so the so the words chosen I think are firmware and operating system and uh the the the choice was also to use the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "word control here because um and not not be specific to something that use uses a specific mechanism because there's a lot of ways the OEM can control it right the the the the device could be running solely out of ROM so no crypto required the the code is solely out of ROM there's no there's no software that's updated or uploaded or anything like that that isn't a valid means of control I mean you could even put the put the device in a you know titanium Cube or something like that so that there's no no way for them to change it uh so that try to tried to avoid that definition of like public key signing and or Max or anything like that quite intentionally um so so uh that's why you know the OEM control uh under under OEM control um this is what we did in Fido certification is really the definition and phytocertification is the phyto authenticator needs to be under under control of the the manufacturer of the Fido authenticator so my my question on us is if we change it to OEM authorized boot or something like that does that address your question your your concern okay Brenda Brendan at the mic uh so for me secure boot means that you have something immutable and that's all it means and what you do with that something immutable is up to you um for the conventional meanings of secure boot the ones that I would go with um that would mean that there is a public key that has verified something or or a Mac if you prefer and indeed the key identifier defines the identity of whoever controls the device so talking about it being the OEM well if the oem's public key happens to match"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "the key identifier that authenticated your boot code then the OEM controls it otherwise they don't I don't see why we need to make a distinction you have a cluster of keys that's who controls the device the reason there's a distinction there is that the OEM can do it without assert that control without a collection of keys you're talking about the screw in the uh in the bottom of the laptop that you take out if you want to install Linux yes I understand this no actually no I'm just saying I could build a tiny little iot device that just runs out of ROM so that's the immutability that I was talking about earlier yeah but there's no key ID or any key identifier though because it's immutable it's not under control of anyone it's immutable it can't change but the OEM controls it when they made the device that that seems like a very odd distinction to me that that's all I'll say Okay I I guess the question is then are you okay with the changing in the the definition to OEM authorized boot yeah it I mean it means it means it means a lot in the Fido context I mean you know Fido is is a clear example of where this works and lots of other people have agreed with it and understand it and all Hank you're in the queue yeah I'm again doing the time Trevor thing um coming back to the issue with the freshness and the uh and the nuns things I uh so before we move then if there are no other comments it's the question of how oh I'm sorry you're continues so I have a comment on this um the immutable the secure boot means evidence until boot Integrity has been established and that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "has been in set in stone as evidence until the next boot has that been defined flavor is nothing has that been defined anywhere I don't remember it being in the architecture spec either okay secure boot is definitely a ambiguous word in in general right I would not think that you can't look up secure boot in Wikipedia I didn't get it or TCG documents or something like that and get a definition everybody will agree on that's why the wording in in eight is under control of the OEM it's not making a beta it's not making it worse okay okay I will I will note that as you guys are not going to block moving forward based on this wording yeah so the rename yeah Dave really wants to rename I agree with the rename I think that's good so now not now do you have enough to prove your next comment is fresh yes and I don't need an answer and that's the point um that's exactly the point I don't need a nons to be fresh and that is very now you're moving back to the previous comment on freshness exactly again again okay sorry yeah I'm slow I have a latest job it is refreshed you know uh uh auditable after the fact um you couple in 8.4 replay protection privacy and say that it defines the nons claim for total replay protection yes and then in parenthesis also sometimes known as token freshness huh I would um disagree with that entirely only because that use of nuns is by by circumstance a way to established freshness the ad hoc freshness because you as the issue of the nuns know that you just issued it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "is making you the only viable source of freshness by receiving something including your non so that that's all the nuns is about our freshness but that's not the problem I think that the the the the the coupling of Replay attacks and freshness is the problem because in 9.3 freshness you say all eat must use must provide a freshness mechanism to prevent replay attacks and that is nonsense um you don't need freshness to protection from replay attacks who need freshness for proofs of freshness and that's all and that the nuns by accident does both as a lucky coincidence that is not relevant to the concept okay and I think that has to be really kept apart and and that that's why I'm a little bit confused by that all the time because people always confuse nons as a freshness mechanism it is actually but I would say that there's a lack of coincidence to have it both in one thing okay and and just just decouple that okay so that and that's that's security considerations I think right uh it's surprisingly it's in privacy considerations okay okay yeah so we get those those are in the notes so we'll okay we can um improve the text that is the last remaining part where it's still couples and you decoupled it at other places I know that you already did it at some places but just I think also not in fact okay yeah okay Rakesh you're in the queue yeah that was a fresh comment thank you yeah just one comment on the secular part so would it help to rather call it a scope of the keyboard because from vendor to vendor uh the definition of uh the stage of circuit board varies like UV compliance acute boot is different from let's say what some other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "vendors do would it help to Define like what's the scope of the keyboard in here or the type or what you're referring to for me would that help uh yeah I think we're just trying to I I didn't I couldn't quite hear everything you said there but you're saying if you put a definition like can we have like as what's the scope of secure boot in the context of attestation like do we look at ufe compliance in cuboid as what we would want to pick up where you start from the bootloader or some vendors have it like from Hardware Route across basic reboot versus CPU basically boot so do we have something like a scope or circuit would defined and would that help clarify this so I'm yeah so the the definition currently says the firmware in the OS um uh and you're maybe trying to say we should lock that down more um when we say firmware again it's kind of it becomes a bit hazy because again uh you could split into multiple stages before you actually get to the North the network operating system so till what stage do we expect the OEM to control it versus what could I like let's I'll give an example of let's say someone wants to run like Sonic on a box that's sold by a vendor what would be the scope of the keyboard in that context right so that there's there's I mean there's a tricky one because yeah like I said there's we're dealing with uh you know a device that could be as simple as just a ROM like and no operating system at all right yeah to uh a mobile phone which has got 100 CPUs the boot I mean at least 50. I mean and they all have boot chains and and then they have downloadable software and right so so I don't really you know if we if we tried to Define system architectures and a taxonomy system architectures and all of that we're going to get into trouble so we'll be here you know for pages and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "Pages we're lingering on this one right so definition for too long Dave you're in the queue remind me what was the renamed version the what what was the rename it went to OEM OEM authorized boot authorized boot um there's three instances of the word secure boot one is in the title and do is in the sentences whatever as long as you rename all three of them then people stop asking you any questions about what secure boot means okay oh yes oh that's good thank you okay and then I asked for a point of order no takers where are you guys taking notes okay I'm not seeing it so as long as you're capturing the discussion and the agreements that's what's important so I just want to make sure that those are getting captured because I'm not seeing it on my headstock yeah okay so um I I have given you the whole open make time so I'm going to give you nine minutes left and then that will heat up the whole slot just FYI all right next slide please you have six left okay yeah good morning okay so this is PR number 296. this relates to that section 9.2 about claims characteristics that I mentioned previously uh the my understanding of this of this issue is that um it's a suggestion for separate ex expert review for eat claims so we would somehow have to distinguish eat claims from other JWT and cwt claims uh um because the these claims would be eat claims would be subject to more extra more review or different criteria or something like that um uh you know I I don't think this is a question that we want to separate the Registries or create a whole new eat registry it seems like it does beg the question of some sort of a bit in the registry that tells you whether this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "uh an eat claim or not um the uh eat authors think that the current expert review is fine and um that the expert review that's applied to cwt and GWT is sufficient um and that trying to create a separate expert review would cause uh would be kind of a big step to take so so anybody that wants separate expert review for eat claims okay not hearing any let's move on thank you okay Cabo is getting in the queue Carson's already in the queue anyway customer I don't have a problem with uh using the same expert here but the question really is where does the information get recorded whether the expert used the JWT yardstick or the idiotic I think that needs to be somewhere after the review is done um but there is not a separate eight yardstick is there I don't think so well I think it's whether we need to cook a question at hand I mean an expert will look at the thing to think what are you trying to use this for then the registrant would say I will use it for each and then an expert review will happen and then the information is lost"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "not be able to find out whether the review considered this or not that's a mistake sank and we were talking about like for years about adding a uh column to the uh to the Eid registry that says this is about eating uh sorry sorry cwt registry that this is about eat we could flag that yeah I I was going to ask because I'm I'm ignorant so the expert reviewed today right on the dots and see watch are they documented under the Ina registry would they I just wanted to to add that we just had the same discussion in the previous voting group meeting I was in so we need to understand that there are Registries that we are using from other specifications that are almost right we just need to add a column to that and that should be in that operation right so the question is do we need to put that request in the other working group foreign column I think we raised three years ago and it kind of never really stuck and we're reiterating it like on a yearly basis and I think this is uh this year okay Michael you're not in the but but I'm Gonna Let You Go just because he's an expert interest of time and he is one of the expert reviewers Michael Jones a designated expert for said registry um what what is the purpose of the column"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:06",
    "text": "so the purpose of the touch screen is that cwts should be protected from using uh certain semantics by accident because every cwt claim automatically is allowed for every cwt apparently so some are very red specific and and someone who just reads a claim name might be uh inclined to read what they want to read but not what it actually means and that does not actually eat uh read to eat ideas RFC at that point so I would give that as a pointer through the semantics this is about remote attestation and and if by accident this can also be used for cider production that's great but you should be very aware of that I think it's relatively dangerous to uh to uh to go for some UE ID for example which is useful in most contexts but I think you really have to be understand that this is for device identification in the context of remote attestation so if this doesn't work for you in your scenario that's highly vital to a no and so that is just just as an indicator that there's a specific set of semantics here that is a subset of everything that cwt was initially intended for it's not just the web tone right so Michael yearnicky were you in a pylon Michael Richardson sorry oh can I respond yes go ahead um Hank I don't see those characteristics as unique to eat um I don't see those characteristics as you need to eat uh for instance Ace registered cwt"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "claims some of them are general purpose some of them are very specific uh the same could be said of the Jose algorithms registry and or the Jose claims registries the way you find out as an implementer that something is highly eat specific is you read the reference in the registry pointing to the definition of the claim and you decide whether that's applicable or not I don't think it makes sense to special case eat because the characteristic you're talking about is true of all other third party claims registrations as well Michael you might not want to go away uh hi um is it okay if I call you all Michael okay just make sure yeah yes that's fine um so um the first point on this slide was never the point of the of the pr okay the first point the point of the pr the issue was that um we might want to write a few uh a qualifying words for the expert reviewers that um renders the uh so that eat claims actually are a subset of what um cwts could make and so the question is I don't know exactly what those those words might be and that that was the point of the disc was to have a discussion that um can you do anything can you is it is the whole list of anything that you could do as an eat claim sorry as a cwt cream a caught claim does that all apply to eat or are there some subsets and there's other some other things as well I think we just had a conversation about the OEM secure boot claim right and mass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "confusion and it sounded to me actually that we might need three or four different claims right for that and when those claims when those requests came to the expert reviewers then one of the things I I think it would be reasonable to say to the expert reviewers is it is reasonable that you have three or four claims that appear the same but come from different communities because they have different semantics that would be nonsense in a caught generic cost space that would be stupid it's the whole point of of a thing but in this case it would be makes sense we might like to say that now that's essentially asking the uh expert reviewers um not to change how they review it but rather to actually say oh this might actually be a subset of the things there are certain criteria that um you need to apply more strenuously or a little bit less generously and that's where it all came down to okay so I asked the question to you Mike is is right now do you think you could deal with that we had the conversation OEM claim versus the other thing do you think you could sort that out or do you need extra guidance if I would need guidance I would probably have a conversation on the thread requesting the registration with the registrants there is a mailing list exactly for that purpose okay so I'm going to cut the cue at Dave because we are now way over but go ahead and this will be the last slide for this uh Roman do you need to do so to close that thread and borrow Hank's time machine about how do we document the decision in the conversation it's exactly that we have the cwt registration registrants whatever that mailing list is where we documented the conversation about both of the early allocation kind of requests for this document so if we need a place"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "it already exists now it's a public archive I was just going to say that this is actually related to the conversation that was closed right which is I agree that's closed that to eat by itself as a framework right eat is not something that you can interoperate with right you interoperate with any profile okay and so by saying that we should not say the following claims are not eat claims that sentence makes no sense and he profile gets to decide what's a claim in that heat profile and if it wants to pick some claim out of the other ones and it's up to the job of the first rounding profile to explain how that makes sense if they need a new claim that they can document that and the expert reviewers can the designator of yours can decide whether it duplicates an existing one or not right I don't think we need another column so use plus one to Mike but I think it's because we made the the uh the framework resolution which I liked um I think that actually answers this question too is my opinion so thanks Steve so so the uh the last comment I have on this is that um if we if we take this on and and try to figure out how to add an extra column and have context sensitive Ayana Registries I mean that seems like a very large amount of work that's going to delay eat for months to me because I I mean that's that's uh I I mean I don't know maybe Ayanna knows how to do this already but that seems like a new thing from from Ayana point of view so that's definitely uh demotivating into me okay we did yeah okay good okay thank you Okay so I'm gonna have to start being really tight with the clock because we are now five minutes over um up next is our four seats Thomas"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "so if you can do it in 13 minutes right that's right so speak fast sorry yeah so um so Eric can can talk now because he's gone uh so I will take over his part which was uh talking about the um recently published uh R4 which is zero three is just a refresh of zero two and we did it not for that not to expire um and I think at this point um we think the main blocks are in place and um and that's why basically there's no further content that we had um but that doesn't mean that all the building blocks are all right um and in particular I think what the document very much needs at this point in time is people from all places verifiers um a testers and and relying parties to take a look at the internal organization of uh the trustworthiness vector and try to match it against their use cases um and that would be immensely useful for us um and the questions you answers are you know are the currently defined appraisal categories what I really want to have uh is there any Gap in what we have at the moment um and and what do we need right being you know up front and telling telling us I need this category and and this other category that are not there at this point in time so to make something that is really useful um for everyone we really need to factor in as wide as input as possible um and so I'm I'm asking the chairs here what would be a a good way to organize this kind of feedback uh cycle well so you can try and do a side meeting I don't know how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "many comments you've had on email thread none none so we could solicit feedback correct right um usually when I do the calls for interest I put the questions of is this draft right of Interest are you willing to implement are you willing to review contribute right yeah go ahead hang okay yes so this is Hank from uh from uh um implementation point of view there's the uh there's this ACC the confidential Computing Consortium I did the right CCC yeah exactly okay so um there's a lot of discussion about this packaging of capabilities that would have been reflected in attestation results and I think uh maybe if we want to have a uh uh uh like a demonstration of Interest we could yield some of these implementers that are actually doing the stuff into this uh discussion once they don't want to standardize things they just want to implement things but maybe for in this case it might be a good to have a uh um like a like a shared um and vote of a demonstration of of Interest right yeah the problem I have at the moment is that I participate in that community so I'm trying to trigger that kind of feedback there but in fact the what I want is the community right I mean we're still even if the group decides to adopt I mean it's the participants the thing is there is it's a working group document so yeah it's not that the problem the problem is really what we have as the information model uh is it sufficient is it fitting you know right because that's our I I don't know it fits my use cases but I'm not all the use case in the world so I'd like to hear more well it may be hard to capture all the use cases so at some point you need to bound the problem otherwise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "unfortunately Eric White is absent in exactness movement yeah so he would have maybe more yeah I realize that okay um Roman is in the queue too don't know a suggestion on how to elicit that feedback I mean schedule a virtual interim like yeah and this is what's on the agenda and if there's a lot of iteration kind of back and forth you know put it on the side as a design team but maybe pin a date everyone brings their use cases then we figure out whether you know the the overlap with yours or new stuff is needed okay so do you want it to be in formal rats because my suggestion was for them to have a side meeting but do you want a formal oh I mean if if you think you can resolve it now kind of this week kind of by all means it just felt like maybe I've looked at this enough there was a little homework people needed to do and given I hope people need to do that sounded like there are other people outside of the community right sure okay so Tom maybe you Eric and the chairs we can decide on what the next step should be thanks very much and and the this this presentation here is um we've been we've been working on a civilization of our foresee uh obviously you know with supporting uh codes um and um this is would be just a quick report for uh for sharing you know with fellow attestation enthusiasts to uh you know what where we are and uh you know to stimulate discussion um but yeah so um the goal of our foresee just to recap is to Define an information model for conveying a normalized set of Association results and uh at the core of the spec there's this uh trustworthiness Vector which is a gigantic Matrix of predefined and customizable semantics um and on top of that we have a set of rules for computing the the the vectors values um and this this is it basically next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "slide please foreign bottom up the the types that we're using is we have the first one of these tiers which is the basic thing it's basically a um a bit signed in so that defines a 256 uh code Point space and it's organized in four horizontal fears affirming warning contraindicated and one meaning this is good and this is definitely dodgy or I cannot say um and this base here is also segmented vertically in two subspaces positive is standard so we Define exactly what that means except we do that sparsely so the Matrix is bars and then a completely private thing for the negative numbers but the important thing to understand here is that even if you don't understand so we didn't the understanding needs to be that from private space you very Space is really uh understandable within a private domain a closed domain and so if things in the private space emerge from the from the from the closed domain then um the the downstream relying part you will not know exactly what that means the thing what what the code Point means but the second the horizontal segmentation allows the the downstream receiver to actually uh Define understand at least roughly what the thing means using the four categories next please okay so and then you have the trustworthiness claim uh which is uh a thing that is associated with a an appraisal category uh so for example you have executables you want to measure uh uh you want to understand whether the uh running uh code is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "um in in in the expected state or not you have say other categories like device identity um memory protection you know many um and to each of these categories you have the trustworthiness uh theater associated with the defined set of um semantic so for example in the case of executable number three means the specific things in the case of uh memory protection number three would mean another thing but both will be in the um affirming tier next please yeah so then you you put together these eight categories and that's that's what I was mentioning before this is what we have predefined this is the pre-canned uh shape of the the trustworthiness Vector these are the eight sort of um uh appraisal categories that we we pretty fine and um yeah this is this is the core the semantic core of an attestation results is based on this next please so our 4C only provides the semanticore of of that but the downstream relaying party or Downstream verifier needs also other metadata associated with the context of evaluation contagious for example the identity of the verifier not just the cryptography or the entity that comes with the signature but also for example the software identity because you want to understand what the Verizon version one two three is then the appraisal using plugin X Y and Z compared to another thing um you want to know when the appraisal happened you're going to have freshness indications right connect to the thing so roses or apoc IDs or whatever um you want to have an identifier of the principle policies that we used for computing the r4c vector"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "maybe if the um verify is running inside and executive execution environment you also want to have evidence about that so you want to stash um evidence together with with the the the the the appraisal results and so you need to have these contextual stuff that are forcing doesn't Define and you need to also have a um a data a data model please you have three minutes left three minutes yes I will try and you have 12 slides left just FYI right okay so this is a hardware so yeah so that one that was right before was the uh realization on cdbl of the trustworth inspector so you see the for the eight categories the the thing for them next next yeah that's what that's the thing and then what we've done we have taken that and associated with the the contextual stuff that I was mentioning before in terrain a year for for lack of better name and ethernet station results um clean set um and this has got the you know the status which is the the summary of the appraisal the profile because it's in it so anyways files and we use that for versioning also the the kind of content of this stuff uh the transformation transport finesse Vector at the core and then other stuff right and the important thing there is obviously wanted him to discuss and it would have some some feedback is the uh is the socket there to allow it extensions either ear extensions on the clean set please go ahead thank you Ned sorry I know you broke your finger so this is a an example the realization in jot uh next please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "this is this equivalent semantically but I realize there's a receiver caught token I'm set next please and here what we have done for the replacement review um as a vendor the number of vendors in the open so it's not a very specific thing but uh you know uh the the product specific thing is uh that we've added two kind of extensions in there to that socket one is for um sort of um um taking so because because we take different kinds of evidence with a in a different formats uh we want to give back and normalize the view of the claim set that was received uh independently of the format that was used by the by the submitter and this is what we uh we use there basically you have this associative array that represents the claim set in a normalized way and the other thing there is the verifier added claims is a bunch of uh claims that the verifier does as part of the appraisal right so when you're when you praise the thing you also realize other things that not necessarily are in evidence but you have received the information that you've received from supply chain or other things like say certification um body please go next please well you're at a time so if you can do it quick and I was just going to ask Dave did we just forget to remove you from the queue or did you get on the Queue did you actually all right I I don't know we can please go ahead do your question okay and then I might close it with that Thomas okay um no problem my question is on something that you and I have not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "already talked about given we've already talked about other feedback on here um it defines uh space for standard and private in other words out of those uh numbers there the Anna section just says see body I'm imagining that you'd want an INR registry for all the standard ones and that you'd want some way of having um implementations or vendors or whatever specify what they're going to use for private use out of the other out of the negative numbers and my question is you haven't really um specified the full eat profile in the way that the eat document requires profiles doesn't be specified and so my question is for the private space the negative numbers how do you know what the interpretation is are you planning on putting like OEM ID or something into the e-profile or how would you actually be able to tell on receipt what the negative number is semantics you can tell what the tier is but you've got a whole bunch of ranges and it says well this is a non-standard reason how do I know what the non-standard reason is unless I know what like the OEM ID or whatever the the vendor ID like in DHCP you have the thing but then you got another option that tells you how to identify which private spaces is out of so right that would be that would be a profile thing all right so I think that because AR for SI is a each profile then you can use that it's not currently written up as such but I think you probably want something like oemid is what tells you how to identify how to interpret the private space that's my question so I would take that as a a recommendation for update on the draft okay so with that I I apologize we need to move on to the next one but you're still here uh the next one up is secure routing no no no sorry eat media types right okay cool thank you oh this one would be short I promise well yeah you went two minutes over on that one so um the last presentation suit Brendan we may not get to okay so in your types perfect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "um next next I think these are just nothing but um okay recap this is the uh it type system six production basically three uh the the downside the signed and the bundle and for each of the production we have allocated a media type next please and this is the table should be the table of the of the all the media types uh the two chord the two protected one the two bundles and the two are unprotected and these are the names that they use now we have renamed the uh each damper to each one because now his bundle is not there anymore next please foreign profile to it profile for consistency with it closed four eight was the other one related to the downstream uh repercussions of the change in naming in the heat spec we've done we remove the dev and replace with bun and then we had a couple of issues associated with feedback the tutorial feedback that we got from the event car thank you very much I think we have addressed your your stuff but if you want to double check just click on those comments and see whether next please foreign because uh if you use media types in the textual form you don't need to any to do anything in order to use a specific profile because you just tack you just take the you just take the um the profile ID inside the media type parameter but for crop you cannot at this point in time because um because the content formats are different from media types basically they are compressed uh code points and they are not very um you know flexible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "so there's a draft that I have proposed in court is probably time to solve a sort of bigger problem here which is a generic transfer of media type parameters which is the CF parameterized whatever and we've discussed this in an interim I've got excellent feedback I've updated it but what I'm what I want to say here is that this black this the dependency on this mechanism is not blocking for the rest it's just not ideal but it's okay we can go on without um we will return that was raised by many see you think at adoption for providing a better use case in Russia now which I think is going to be you know a few lines more in the in the introduction and I'm happy to do that you know quickly and as soon as possible and the and the 12 is the most important one which you want to discuss here is the early location of media types media typing so please next we have a standard track document for for requesting the the the thank you types we have clear rules expressed there I think um and uh and we are now stable because the only thing that was a bit wobbly the dev thing has been settled and so the last point before we can request an early location which I think we want to have at least from my perspective because we want to use it and we'd like to use them now uh is the working Group shares and we are directed to judge where they're there's interest and and and and and the other things you know match up man so you're asking if we can do uh fairly early application of these six media"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "times yeah um I think it's okay the question is on the stability and changes yeah um let me go back and confer with the other chairs Roman I think it may be okay if if we think it's stable enough given our last experience with this let's do a really good check on the mailing list yeah okay okay sure so we'll we'll put on the mail list to see if we're early or absolutely fantastic thank you your group agrees we're ready to do for allocation okay next please no no I think there's none oh no yeah it's a stupid thing uh so yeah we're gonna go to the early location and we'll close the the blocking issues and uh and then we can submit too and at that point in time I think we are ready for working group let's go and we won a beer is that it well find us find a bug and then you'll get my view from me okay thanks all right um everything keeps spilling over next is secure routing who is up okay are you here are you remote foreign yes okay so I'm Gonna Give You nine minutes okay nine minutes okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "we have three new drafts focusing on secure routine I believe most of us have been have seen security oh no oh that's yes security or trust the routine more than once what do you mean by security here that is pro-wide secure security service for user link transmission for example traffic Furrow from a to F need IPS function then the forwarding Parts can only the green line next IP network is to try to deliver at the same time there are many security functions in the network to ensure the availability of the network why security is required for Network operators through security routine can reduce users attacks on the network and on the other hand due to the Improvement of network security we can provide users with differentiated security service of course with the frequent occurrence of security incidents our users are more sensitive to security therefore it also puts forward higher requirements the users hope that the operator can provide the link page matching their series security requirements and provide corresponding security service next things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "the requirements are very clear why is it impossible to achieve security early routine protocols considered accessibility so Network routing strategy is independent of security the order is from our network is experience the management and use of existing security devices are separated from the IP network to provide security service while transmitting data we need to consite both security processing and the routing process next things these are the security routine model so when the user needs the S2 function we can only choose the going Pace from a to c and then to D but when the user needs S4 function change the Red Pass next thing we see security is the goal is to provide secure service so what security capabilities are provided such as entity does IPS IDs and so on in another draft optimize the security functions we try to list the capability set of existing security products according to the ipdrr mode next says so what to do for secure routine the first is to collect the nose security capabilities to the controller and then the control form routine paste"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "according to the user's security requirements finder issue the routine Pace this may be implemented through routing programming Technologies usually distributed to tenure entrance nodes when using segment routine V6 next then how to get no security capabilities such informations we propose to extend the protocol bgpls to carry the security capabilities of the node it is defined in the RC Samsung 52 is standards the nosbond distribution of Link State and the traffic engineering information using PCP describes a mechanism by which link State and traffic engineering information can be collected from networks ensured with external components using the P2P routine protocol uh this protocol defines three types of uh Network layer reachability information that is that are note link and preface on inner finger one is your scaring the security capability of the local node through their hpls type note next and figure 5 shows using the link type to carry the capability informations"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "next yes and the last finger here is use uh the prefix type to carry the optimal systems in security capabilities next things two pro white external Security Services we need a complete set of process we think the step one is to collect no security capabilities from the ordinals then and the Step 2 is initial configuration on security devices or software Wells and last the step three is distribute routine pace with these three steps then when an attack occurs security defense can be triggered next please this topic needs more discussion this is the first presentation in a rest work group and and now we do not fight and shoot for Walker in the security area so um I need advice to apply for a special email list or further discussion such like how how to use the uh security capabilities except from secure writing pace and how to timely and efficient schedule the use of security functions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "because we need more discussion yes yeah so you're out of time but I'm gonna let Eric one question but I will um to your questions on next to do mingling um my suggestion is for you to present it at SEC dispatch ah I'm passing this patch yeah the security dispatch because you're talking about the general routing I'm not sure that I can see potential connections with rats um but for some of those requests I would take it to the SEC dispatch um do you have a quick question on this or can we move on go ahead no quick question I should have said I cut the cue Diego I like where you're going with this in terms of pulling out requirements um I do think that there's value in pulling out requirements from The Trusted path routing work do you see anything that's not interested path routing functionally that you need or see covered with your work everything yes ah trust the rooting and secure routine I I do not get the clear point of your suggestions really what I was asking is the functional requirements match up to some of the functional requirements that are part of the trusted path routing document in essence it pulls the requirements out from the solution and that's good do you have other requirements which are not in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "take that online if if you want yeah well as the chair and because we're low on time if I could just suggest that you guys take that offline okay we can discuss offline all right thank you up next we have at the stations in the TLs is that hummus I'm gonna give you the one minute warning because okay one minute one minute warning but I hope that's not what nature sounds okay yes so in the previous presentation specifically it you have heard about all the claims and the token and the signature covering the token and so on we've gone through this in a group for quite a while already in essence it's a better token um but this work that we recently submitted it's about um buying that token also do a key uh you could call it a proof possession token and there are use cases where this is needed specifically if you want to put at the station information in a in a larger context when you actually establish a secure Channel like we do in both DLS this work um we started it by using it but it can be applied more generically and the design is intentionally made so that you can also use other attestation Technologies other than eat next one it's actually a very short presentation uh this is what you find in the document which is uh shown at the last slide um so we came up with what we call a key attestation token which is the there are lots of new acronyms of course um our main contribution of this work because this is uh the idea of uh using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "key attestation is not something we came up with that exists already for I don't know how many years um this key attestation token and the path which is called the platform attestation token is uh combined together in a bundle so you actually convey in a protocol exchange to tokens uh with different semantics the platform attestation is what you what we also use today with the the e-token to make an uh assessment about what's running on the on the device what Hardware Etc so there's nothing new here um and we want to reuse the existing software because that's uh uh minimal amount of software on the device and then augment it with a second token and where you see specifically one key uh public key being added this identity key and that key is one that is used uh in a TLS handshake for example right specifically in this uh in our document in depending on how uh whether the client is the test or the server side is the adjuster and if let's assume uh for examples we've used uh post cases but let's assume the client does the attestation it generates and that's on the next slide uh um the the client TLS client uh creates this uh identity key pair it obtains the nonce from the uh from the server side um like in in it you would do to do the freshness um the client would create this bundle uh would create the the platform attestation and then also the key at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "station token like shown on the previous slide and it uh includes the identity key the public key and the key attestation token and also um as a mechanism the nuns for freshness it then transmits that bundle in a 30 in a certificate message to the server instead of the x509 certificate uh which was which we always used but then it also has to prove the possession of the private key corresponding to this identity key which is what the certificate verify uh message does so on what does this then provide the uh the server side it then knows based on the platform at the station token what type of software is running on that nothing has been modified that there's uh specific Fingerprints of the firmware and and potentially software on high up on the stack and it also knows that the software used to produce um this key at the station token is also unmodified and it also knows uh that the the private key corresponding to this identity key is stored in a in in the Hardware's uh um sort of security boundary so it's not cannot be exported or released um and and thereby um it knows that the client the TLs client has um possession of that private key I forgot to give you the one minute okay you forgot uh um just please wrap up yeah Thomas has another document the uh the message wrapper that provides this generic framing to also include other attestation technology like uh dbm based stuff and so on intra TLS exchange and it's our attempt to use attestation more generically in in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "sort of like protocols like DLS or higher layer protocols okay looks like this code uh from the hackathon look at it uh try it out and if you're interested come to me I'll show you how the code Works actually in the in the subsequent happy hour we actually show it to you if you want oh cool okay Q is closed Hank make it quick yeah but you haven't closed before me um hi this is Hank um that's the future um so yeah you just said it there's a lot of illustration Technologies out there and you're inheriting I don't know if uh um consciously or just by accident like it's 75 of TCG terminology and your things there so one team Wiseman is not here uh unfortunately due to a certain issue but maybe we should have a uh coordination call and get these things like super aligned okay so there will be no friction that would be a problem so we get from the 75 to 100 alignment yeah that would be awesome yeah exactly okay I think the next one is eat here at the station oh you did both you're awesome I gave you five minutes for and you did both okay then uh we have conceptual message wrapper who who's that it's time sorry yes I was a bit distracted sorry so I thought I thought Hannis was doing this as well you're doing it yeah yeah you're right yeah that's why I thought but is these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "in the same bundle as um as the one is the basically the encapsulation that allows these um agnosticism about the the the attestation um messages that are transported in the protocol yeah not just in TLS as Hannah said in different high level protocols so next please so this is this uniform encapsulation for any right conceptual message and the link there if you click it goes to the architecture where the last conceptual messages are explained I'm talking about artificial results evidence as well as uh endorsements and ref values whatever next please so example use cases for this for example if you want to to embed evidence or endorsements or ref values or decision results in certificates and crls and and csrs extension like dice TCG dice does then you can use this TLS tested Harris was presenting is another use case for this we use stash that in the in the end Shake message in the relevant and Sheet messages you have a use case for this phone with when you use it in in restful apis for embedding palers inside you know bigger objects and we were using this in varies in the verifier but it could also be used for um for archival long-term archival for example of Association results you know spaces and objects thanks please so there are many use cases and conversion on a common format allows uh this increased Ingenuity in the in the ecosystem therefore easier consumption by all the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "actors all the roles in the in the architecture and as well as the ability to compose different protocols without doing the in Capital Cap right multiple times it just extract and push it in from one protocol into the other as is and this is a deeper thing is a byproduct of the aspect that we can we can have uh interfaces to a testing environments that can become more uniform in the long term next please so we went through design phases you know two examples very complex design yeah and then we decided that that was not the case so next please and we ended up doing this yay this is so next please this is the actual design I'm not joking terrible um and and the core idea is that we we parasite the existing media type ecosystem to to get the typing information and and from that we derive the the encapsulation in in in two ways one next please uh right when is the array thing where we have a type of value and the type is either a media type string for the Json serialization or even the C board and or a co-op content format could point so we have this to to buys uh you need or you have the long string depending on what you want to do then what you have next please and and the value is either a c board by string for receiver encoding or a b64 URL save string without padding for Json civilizations that's it next please so this is opaque and the type of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "information is outside so this is an example to drive it through the whole cycle you won't go ahead and register application vendor entails sgx because you want to ship a Intel sgx evidence and you also want to register a compressed model format that is semantically equivalent with that let's say is three three thirty thousand one next please um so the first vegetation you do you do an email to the Ina expert uh and and the second because the code point the informative you're requesting is more than 10 000 you go uh fcfs and that's another email through Ayana this time you don't have to go through extra review altogether next please and then when you've done that you can achieve these two encoding here um the example the symbol type event on the Json Temple valve thanks please but because of casting and Michael I think uh you know we have 9277 and that thing gives us a fantastic injection which is a TM and GM function that is very good function that the injects the whole of the corrupt qualiformal space into a bunch of little segment of the of the sibo tank space so if we start from CF 3000 3001 you get into magic receiver and you can use it in in this other encapsulation so yeah and this is the the alternative encapsulation that based on support tax this is used by the the TCG guys and the dice extension next please I I don't know how you asked for five"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "minutes live because would do that so yes exactly so the bureaucracy is quite lightweight we don't have to Define any uh registration inside the the the the the document because everything is taken care of by existing next please and it's quite simple right except the first step which as an extra review then uh the rest should be really automatic and these are true uh typical simulation about the overhead which is basically say they are the same next please why are there any simple tags or the type salary next please and in summary we have a simple trivial format we have a very simple uh um registration mechanics uh this is useful in a number of different scenarios uh that I could have effectively done just that because that's that's the whole thing um and the question is uh whether we want to whether the group is interested whether we want to adopt maybe in the long run I think it was a relatively new submission so we need to ask for comments and feedback on the mail list yeah right we have uh two I think we have zero one uh out so we have it's in a decent State very very decent I would say it's readable actually so if and then and it's short so if people could take a look at that would be much appreciated so we can solicit feedback on on the mail list thank you very much we're sharing on time and then we can proceed from there excellent thank you thank you all right um I think we may only have time for one more unless Carson you can speak super fast I well I have to run the queue here but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "I can't because I'm a co-op I'm a co-author on this yeah no you're up for the unencrypted I thought I uploaded the right deck we went through this and I uploaded the right one you talked about that in the previous meeting okay let me talk about the slides You Don't See um you saw me upload the right version uh yeah so what does that say is uh we have a document out um called unprotected cwt claim sets and that has been around for a while it has been in a kind of blocking stage for the last four months or so because we wanted to make sure that we fully align with each with each now being nearly done it's probably a good idea to unblock use ccs and the two next steps we are proposing is to do a working class call and to profit so I'm going to speak it as an individual contributor since I'm a co-author for this so we received some feedback there's like a year ago which we finally have resolved um we haven't heard any more feedback and that's why Carson is reporting that we believe the draft is stable but the question is for the other chairs to respond so this is Hank a fellow co-author um I think working Google Glass called with um um nudges into the right way I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "there might be a uh two things that really need review I think the working Google Glass Cloud process is the exactly correct way to uh to uh find out if this is on the right track and so I think uh even without being entirely sure about this I think working group has probably will show that that's my personal point of view and there's the one uh that will do the undenting coming up comments and you address that and I have other comments which I shared uh an initial bunch of them um and I want to discuss them more but I I agree with the I think that's you know triggering the process is the right way to actually make the discussion happen and you know finalize the product which is yeah we could use this week to actually look at your newer set of comments yeah and if there is a change that it's needed we could even resubmit so to recap the we have changes that are pending for the UCCS draft or uh is the one that's that's uploaded the most current one and there are no pending changes well the the one that's uploaded is from July and this covers all the comments that have been made and now there is a recent new set of comments from Thomas like last week this week no it was like yesterday yesterday and um yeah we we should be working on that but I think this is not really fundamental stuff but things that just needs to be taken care of okay so let's um so it seems like we want to let everyone take a look at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "the the recent changes to read through them and so I think uh based on that we can have some discussion to see if the list believes that we're ready for last call yeah so how many steps do you need to stick on top of each other I mean this document has been out for a while um why not just working class code you will find out if it wasn't ready for that okay let's get a feel for the room so how many I think I'll use the show of hands tool to see how many in the room are I think that it's uh we're ready to um just go to work perhaps Kathleen can help you run the poll Ned yeah so Kathleen Ned's trying to run a poll but you can't type yeah yeah I'm just looking for it I'm sorry oh okay all right I'm ready to put it in what should the poll say so uh if you're in favor of UCCS going to last call directly show of hands in the affirmative after we make the revisions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:18",
    "text": "okay I see the pole co-chairs you wanted time for the poll s still climbing there's no if anyone does not want to raise their hand please do so let's just give it another minute and continues to climb okay it looks like it's stable now at 20 hands raised and one not raised and 21 participants of course oh I can't see the result remote folks can see the results the results of the poll is there's 22 participants 21 said it looks like we're ready for a working group last call after the uh the last revisions are merged so working group chairs do you guys want to roll it up yes working group last call yep uh I think that makes sense the working group wants to do okay I guess I can take the chair back thank you um all right so sorry Brendan we're kind of out of time unless you can do it in 30 seconds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:06",
    "text": "okay for remote the point was this will be in the suit meeting and so if you're interested in that topic come to the soup meeting and by the way the teeth meeting will have more on the ar-4si uh and other equator topics so come to a tip and come to eat if you wanted to talk about any of those things that we didn't get to today Carl are you getting on the Queue I'm just getting here to say that the cots call for adoption is coming soon so just you guys are taking my last order this is awesome I don't have to say anything so I will what so for those who might not have heard Carl I will be putting out a call for adoption for the cots the concise trusted anchor draft as soon as I can get bandwidth to actually hit submit on the meal okay so um with that we are actually one minute over so thank you everyone productive meeting and uh we will continue on the mail list and uh we might do a doodle Poll for another virtual meeting if we need to thank you everyone"
  }
]
