[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "hello anybody there hello hello we are good evening from Europe excellent um I am slightly expecting uh to see uh my co-chair and where would that be I wonder maybe he's bite buddy that certainly could be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:58",
    "text": "for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "so it looks like uh looks like we can go ahead and get started uh and I I hope that uh Michael uh wait where did Michael Richardson go he was there Nan seconds ago he has a suip user so I'm not sure that does say anything uh excellent so uh well let go ahead let's go ahead and get rolling and we'll uh see what we can do um so um Welcome to our February seller meeting and uh just working down things uh so no updates on our virtual inter room meeting dates and we are uh doing our attendees and and uh such things now and that is a good thing for us to do and pardon me while I um log in to the data tracker okay excellent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "uh Michael yeah he's he's now logged in as a chat only user so apparently no well I I just I just pinged him so uh we'll see if he pops up excellent uh let everybody uh sign in and uh while we are doing that I can uh recognize uh that this is a ITF meeting and so we are under the notwell uh that is uh up here on uh at the top of our agenda items every week so uh just calling everybody's attention to that and uh then that gets us to uh draft meeting minutes from the previous meeting um does anybody need to look at those or have uh thoughts about those I just read them and I think they're fine oh excellent and that that was Jerome right it's fine excellent okay excellent so we have um several things on our list of uh of documents um and just checking to make sure that um I think we have all of the uh I think we have all of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "uh documents listed here just making sure real quick um so we have seven active and we have 1 two 3 four five six seven yes okay perfect uh should we leas the B budy as well I'm sorry should we list bite bu in the list of participants I I I'm I'm I'm sorry I I'm getting should we at least add bite bu to the list of participants oh uh excellent um and uh that person may not know how to do that so yes that that would be excellent excellent okay cool uh and welcome if uh if you are not someone we have seen previously at a solar meeting um so Michael uh did the I I think Michael did the uh agenda uh and had not uh updated it when we said three of the matasa specifications are updated so sorry have expired and they have all been resubmitted and I want to thank everybody for that um and uh if I could uh just say uh I have uh confirmed with our um area director uh bur who uh he has the action item to talk to the isg about what to do with our uh new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "normative reference that was added during the uh isg review uh evaluation period um and uh he had missed the opportunity to have that conversation at the last uh iasg telat and there's another one this coming Thursday so uh this stays in uh in uh it stays in uh ad evaluation app for a followup for now okay and uh so that's what I needed to say about that one and I do I do have one other thing under any other business um Michael had sent a note to the um to the mail in list about uh do you know is this a good time for us to do a u why uh uh seller uh note uh probably to be published on the ITF blog and maybe some other places um and uh we will um have an opportunity to talk about this next but uh what do we need to say now about uh the uh upcoming work on matasa specifications I've been bit quiet lately with the spec not with the code uh I was I'm still expecting some news from the main document that's been pending for four months"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "now so I'm a bit surprised but yeah so depending on how this goes I will resume the work on the other documents I think last time I said on tags because it should be easy and quick uh so I'll probably do that and that was Steve yes thank you I am I am not looking down uh I'm I'm typing on one screen and looking at another screen and uh or and the the the faces are popping up the names are popping up on the other screen my apologies um if we were looking very quickly at um and Michael said uh he was distracted by uh email uh I think that means he wot yes uh he is it looks like he is in the process of joining yes excellent um but I'm just div hi Michael for the last minute and a half I'm here excellent excellent all right uh that's cool so uh we were check we were just looking to see what we were doing uh in uh with the RC editor uh followup on uh the main matasa spec uh have we heard anything from that lately I I don't see anything that's made it as far as the uh in the que no I I know it's yeah it's definitely in the queue uh it's just uh I would be expecting at some point to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "see emails popping up on my uh on my email uh in my email F folder from the RC editor with questions so I can I can re I don't think we've got to we I don't think we're at o 48 yet I don't think we've risen to the top of their queue so I would presume they are actually I've I've been looking at the queue I it's I think it's not really a queue is because there are docents that have been waiting for four weeks or six weeks and they have been gone through OD 48 already and the metosa document has been there for 18 weeks and oh it's still not being processed so okay so uh so it says that we're at the second number in the queue um and that uh yeah so um we're not part of a cluster so we're not waiting for anything it says were an editing process since it's 167 Pages um it's probably going to take them longer than other things and so yeah there easily could be other documents shorter documents that lap it for the simple reason that there's more than one person working on it I was in the intention that current state edit means that it's waiting to be edited no it means it's like it's like under someone's keyboard um and they're going through it um and they are probably dealing with the XML uh which of course you know we generate from other tables so um it could be more uh tedious for them to do that um but um yeah no I mean certainly it's certainly the case that some shorter documents can lap it I think they have four or five people that work on things and so you know if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "someone does six six 20 Page documents in a row that that certainly looks like they're lapping it and then they also try to make sure that like when they have clusters like if you look at the Q you see this cluster c450 I don't know what's in it um but they try to have the same person working all those documents so they get things so so that can easily take people away what is okay I was under the impression that it was still not being edit or not being read still somewhere in the cube so that's apparently not no I would say it's it's that's not the case um but yeah 18 weeks in the queue uh mine is Christmas and someone's um working on it what is the where's the list of the states um edit star R means something else I can't remember what it means but um well at the top of the queue there's a p link that says about this page is right under the title publication Q yeah that's right there you go that's do the edit and it adds star reference flag references that are in Q or not received we're not in that state yet we have no references that are in Q or not received so we're not going to get the star R um and so we should be just fine it should just a question of whoever's working out it finishes and just just for the notes I'm putting this in uh that we are uh looking I'm putting in the the uh the uh publication Q uh URL in the notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:07",
    "text": "yeah I don't see there's no way to know who who's working on it till they tell us I guess um I mean and we can certainly ask yeah I'm not I'm not anxious about it yet um if we get to April and it's still here then I would say there's we should ask a question but um yeah in the about about the the page there it says what the reference flag is the r is it's reference flag it says the document as one or more normative referenes that inq or not received so I wonder if it's because we reference other no we don't have a star R if you look we don't have the star yeah what what that what that usually means is that there's a working group uh so um uh if you if you if you are if you have two documents that you're working on and I finished I finished one of them but it refers to the other one that's not finished yet uh the first document can be approved and sent off to the RC editor and the RC editor can start working on it even but that's basically saying we're working on it but it's not going to be published until uh the references become available but none of our none of our reference refences are still actively being worked on that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "why we worked hard to remove normative references right yeah so if you see if you're looking at that I was G to try to share my screen but uh Spencer's sharing um so if you look at let let me let you let me let you yes um accept um window um let's share this one and then there there okay so this one here which says this edit dasr um is in this cluster 450 and if we look at that cluster then we see that they've published a few documents they have privacy pass uh and it references this architecture and it references this off scheme um it referenced this but it got published it referenced this but it got published and so here's the scheme here's the architecture so in this case they're not actually waiting for anything they've got all the documents now but they haven't finished processing them all so yeah so these are all being edited by by them whereas if we look at I don't know let's look at this one uh so you look at this document this draft Brisco docis has a normative reference to this other document which has not yet been received which means that it's still in processing somewhere so this whole cluster of documents is essentially not going to go forward until this document enters the queue and gets edited right we went through that with um did we with ebml no we didn't we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "didn't do that with any other document but um anyway so we're just we're here and uh you know that other previous document is a similar age so I'm not surprised yet um if if if uh if 450 gets published and they we're still not hearing from them then probably there's uh uh I don't know there may be some hiccup or you know we just have to ask it's probably just coming it's on it's on its way is there a way to know if there's something actively working on it if it's in yq does it mean it's active actively been worked on or it's just if says if it's if it says edit then it's then somebody has been assigned to it whether whether they're you know whether they're multitasking and are are distracted by some other Q entry that they're dealing with hard to know probably um but um uh I would just hang tight at this point it is a long document and it is repetitive and perhaps tedious um but um anyway we there are other documents that are similar length and have been in the queue for less time and uh but a lot of them are marked edit you can see yeah I I don't I don't think I don't think we're having a problem yet and that yeah thank so it's good that we had this conversation thank you all yeah so when it gets to off 48 we'll get an email about it and it'll be very obvious yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:06",
    "text": "there's a document from 2018 in the que even 202 17 let me go ahead and uh go back to sharing uh my screen so we're sharing notes okay cool uh I am I make am I making this up or did we have a conversation about the order of what we were going to do um previously maybe maybe maybe one meeting ago maybe two meetings ago yeah it's in the minut minutes from last time okay excellent the minutes we just agreed on yeah excellent so uh if I'm looking at this uh what we liked was uh this plan"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:11",
    "text": "yeah I did not work on that yet apart from publishing the documents again so uh we're going to work on tags next is that what I understood yes for it's more logical because it's simple and separate from the rest I'll I'll do and I'll do the dorky round with it sorry so is there anything that we need to talk about on this beyond that that not for now I don't think so yep sorry I was kidding yep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "sorry cool so um so we're doing tags first and then codec after that is there anything that we need to do to start work on these two no is there anything else we need to talk talk about on our work plan I may have a question actually about the next documents if I want to reference the pending RFC for metosa is it okay to references as the draft 21 and if it gets queued it will be managed as if it was a reference when it will be published that means it will end up one of those turns right well that is how flock does it now because the flock document also references the inq mosa document it referen is just the uh the draft and I guess the RFC editor people will sort out how to well to convert it to the RFC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "number when they have right that's exactly right okay cool uh is there anything else is there is there anything else uh that we need to do on on this on this particular topic Michael are you thinking of anything no I think we're mostly in uh holding pattern how do we get the RFC 10,000 do you want to get you want that number yeah maybe yeah sure I mean why not I mean supposed somebody's gonna get it there's supposedly some bugs that that that it might tickle um and said that we should just going to four-digit hex numbers of rfc's but which could be worse but we'll see apparently there's some someone's done some testing and they found some bugs but that they're not important yeah uh uh ask us ask us about what happens when you have uh when they when someone tries to have three-digit draft uh versions some that was a long time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "ago did someone get that far three-digit draft numbers yeah yeah there was uh one person in particular I don't know any others but there was one person in particular that was basically uh using the data tracker like it was his backup so every you know so like every time he got ready to go to lunch basically he would he would uh another you the next version so and that you know that got him to like 80 or 90 or something like that and somebody noticed and said uh we should probably handle this differently and uh I know this group will never have this problem because uh that that would be insane and you guys are not but uh if if we ever did have that issue come up uh the answer is that it that uh we would uh end in dash-1 and then Dash z0 so we know what to do when we get to an odometer version number but we'll never have that problem fascinating yeah but cool so uh Michael we had talked I I had caught the group up on uh Murray checking with the is G on uh how we proceed on uh the uh on the uh new normative reference and uh Murray uh had forgotten to talk to the isg about that but the next T chat is Thursday so uh could say flex days in uh in uh 8 followup for now yep okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "uh did you want to talk about the Yeller email that you sent um I don't really remember the question but um I know that yeah it was it was an excellent and coherent email uh and it looked like uh not that this it looked um sorry it looked like um I I know that um I mean I think that that the check Mar the ball tomorrow's agenda the Y of seller it's right there you missed it right there right above the one you clicked on down in the ah oh sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry yes that oh yeah um right so I I thought that um oh yeah so I thought that was interesting that the library Congress had made this thing I think Dave po forwarded at some point um yes and I thought it was worth sharing that outside of the outside of the working group um and they may still this I don't know um um or maybe they'll wait till it gets published um but I thought it was really great that they said this they moved it from an acceptable format to Preferred format based upon the fact that we you know did get a the RFC out or the that I guess that we got it into working group last call or into the the list there um and um so I think that was really that's really uh a useful external endorsement um when the document does"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "come out on the RFC does come out there will be some people that will be like what why is the ITF doing this right and so I thought it was a useful blog entry yeah talk about where we're going um and you prob probably don't know maybe Spencer does but uh so one of the working groups which I believe is chartered but I could be wrong by a week um that is a working group on uh detecting unwanted trackers right yeah and you know that's a real like why that's totally different than seller but I mean it's so like why is this happening at the ietf um and unfortunately the answer is a little bit complicated um but fundamentally is that because there's some IP based protocols but also some not IP based protocols and honestly there's just nobody else that has the right um uh expertise yeah well no I would say intellectual property um uh thing that would make that that sufficient that all of the relevant parties would actually be a willing to play and I think that's part of also why seller um and why it's happening at the ITF rather than at uh Sig Cal or something or I don't know right uh Michael do you uh I I agree that that's a that that is worth doing um so uh you've got a short verb there uh do do do people agree that this is a Thing Worth saying about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "seller well it was said by the other by the oh okay Congress it was set sent by the library Congress that's from their page that I linked to or Dave linked to and I mostly was just trying to I thought that that the iesg or that or Jay might want to blog about it at some point right right yeah yeah yeah um I'm almost sure that having something for them to publish would make that a uh easier conversation for everybody does that sure someone wants to ghost write something for for that blog that would also work doesn't even have to be ghost State you probably get the by line you probably send it to them yes absolutely so I guess I should ask two questions uh one is uh who want who uh who would like to see that happen and then uh would someone like to write it well I could give it a try given it to write to write it but I don't know uh I'm not sure what the right tone would be uh very um cheery or cheery yeah you know I I would say that you want to they would want to post it in concert with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "releasing the RFC on Mata so maybe not for a month or so month or two um and um it represents a major um milestone for this working group um and you know maybe needs to explain why um this work you know you can interview you can go intervie interview Dave if you like or maybe that uh get some quotes from him or um Library Congress person um Dave you're on this call I I don't know if there's somebody else that we could I don't know T the target audience is is the IDF as a whole right but more more more more people who are ietf aware but not necessarily um um know what's going on yeah well and even even that press release so I I'm saying uh the audience is at least ITF wide and probably for people outside the ITF as well uh uh Michael I'm thinking ISO uh might find this useful to uh to have access to yeah if that makes sense yeah yeah cool and yo isok is kind of the uh outward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "facing to the internet Community uh entity for uh for the ITF uh so Mar are you are you okay to uh just uh write up something and send it to the mailing list yeah sure I won't promise I won't promise anything well yeah yeah in GitHub is markdown if you like whatever right yeah exactly well I don't have an access to anything except the flux oh yeah I can do a pool request of course yeah just yeah yeah yeah yeah absolutely and uh well if we ever need if we ever need a GitHub we uh it is trivial for the working group it is Trivial enough for us to get one just just just tell us I mean I mean anybody I I'll try to write something up no problem cool and we will and we will uh we will uh figure out uh what to do with it after you've got it excellent uh and I think I think that uh I think that uh Michael had that had it exactly right that this is going to be most most helpful to the most people uh if we've got a draft of it by the time the matasa RFC comes out but that that will not happen suddenly uh we will get we will get email from uh RFC to- editor uh with you know with questions with the to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "authors and things like that so we will know that that is in the process of coming and uh we can we can uh just make sure that we've got a uh version that we're happy with uh after you know before that happens okay perfect okay uh is there any other business if there is not uh we will be uh we will see you all very early in April um and uh and that will be awesome Michael are you Michael are you going to uh uh Australia I'm going to Australia excellent so I feel that I may not arrive with all my limbs but you know oh no I may GW off one leg or the other to make try try to arrive in Australia not in Austria that's all that's always uh that's always uh that's always let me check my let me check my ticket it says I have a change planes in Vienna so interesting yeah yeah I know I going I go through uh Ottawa Toronto Vancouver"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "Auckland bisban with uh more than 10 hours of layover time which reminds me I need to buy a lounge pass or something yep okay well yeah so the next meeting is April 9th which is like a week and a half two weeks after the ietf meeting and um I hope we'll be in edit phase so look for those off 48 messages um and I hope we'll get I I imagine so I imagine that Murray will unstick things in the next week or two and you'll probably Martin you'll probably start getting I don't know have we done the isg the ad reviews we've just done ad review we haven't done isg review on flak right uh no no that's that's that uh we're all the way we're all the way through as soon as we are sure whether they need to do a short last call uh second last call because of the new normative reference right okay so that's all we're waiting yeah exactly exactly yeah and and there's no no there's no action there's no there's no required action for the working group good okay and uh Martin uh Dave just uh I don't know if you saw in the chat but uh uh said mentioned uh Kate Murray at Library of Congress as a uh potential source of a uh of a factual quote which yeah that could be that could be that could be fine too yeah I'll I'll see whether it fits I don't know maybe I start writing something and I don't know whether I you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "know maybe at a later point we figure out where to put such a quote or yeah sure sure what get it you get it then you'll be good cool and um and uh thank you is there anything else we need to talk about if there is not uh thank you guys for having a wonderful uh productive meeting and we will see everybody um on our next uh on our next call at the beginning of April you too everyone thank you all bye okay bye bye bye bye-bye"
  }
]
