[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I tried to speak hello is it uh any better now yeah it's very clear a little weak Maybe is that better yeah that's that's good enough [Music] and in this we can hear you breathing in the mic so maybe you should put to make a little bit on the side as opposed to just in front yeah can you hear me now well yeah that's good so it's four already wait a couple of minutes to see more people join [Music] but I think you can get started through the note 12 and everything I don't expect newcomers to join him so okay all the timers can skip them in the network we continue we start welcome to the Royal interview meeting um please know that this system is recorded notice I swear that this meeting is aligned with the not well the idea please read it carefully we will not read it here and for the remote participation please use the notes the link is in the chat if I yes and volunteer for minute takers thank you okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "this is the traffic agenda so we are going to have personal introduction then we are going to discuss about the status of rnft then the status of NSA extension then the status form Opex followed by the status of enrollment priority and at the end I would like to discuss if we should have a meeting at the next ITF and if we should have a regular Century meetings to advance in the work and then a couple of minutes for open floor so do you we have suggestions for this agenda okay our comments okay thank you so about the draft status we have submitted to the isg out there Ripple we as well have submitted our projection but recently we got the um thank you very much Susan and Pascal is addressing the version 33 address the first part of the issues and one ticket as well was created in GitHub for that preview then NSA extension some issues addresses I know there's still one of insurance that we will discuss later and for internet priority they are working progress we are addressing open issues I think that it will be a new version next Monday um for more picks there was a new version and recently and some comments from Alvaro that Raul is addressing and about the rnfe we got the new version and I think I need some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "feedback from Michael to be included and that's where we will discuss today for capabilities and storing root act need for attention we can discuss about these topics in next in the meetings as well them from the milestones we have one Milestone stand that is data projection come from the other ones we need a a new date so we want to ask your opinion about these new dates like for example about the well Source root multicast for ripple to the ISD with plan like November 24 then for the young model um for MPL well we don't know if someone wants to continue this work we can rise together in the cold comments to the mail list and decide in November if we draw but we'll continue with this work item then [Music] um fast border router transportation in Ripple you know I think that we don't drop this one this is like a FD um so yeah my mistake yeah my mistake sorry no this one should be yeah changed the picture and we left the comments between how the lines have been reordered so just ignore the drop for this one sorry about that I hope you you didn't have a heart attack onward in the meantime yeah yeah sorry so maybe we put March 24 that one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um then yes I'm fine with that so okay okay thank you and then um or closed maybe March 24 because if we need to take some items I said from the work Ethans we need to recharge there so let's see and for the proposal of augment these flags we think as well December 24 is someone to take this further and for the capabilities we think um June 24 the mod of operations between February next year 24. and for in this AI enrollment no sorry yeah in enrollment in dribble networks January 24th so some comments on these dates do you have a new data suggestions okay then after admit we will propose we will proceed with the changes thank you okay okay for a fast border road class detection in Ripple we have well a new version that basically that works in progress I understand from content that the new feedback from Michael has to be integrated do you have some comments on these yes some some Michael promised some uh some corrections and and improvements and I guess it's worth waiting for them uh and then so don't please don't wait anymore um I'm not gonna get it done at this point um um so those were edits that I thought English would help um but I'm not gonna get to it so um I'm sorry don't wait anymore"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "okay then then we can probably ask for for the internal review okay great thank you Michael and Conrad yes so the next steps for this document will be we would like to have two internal reviews before the working the last call and at the same time we will request the routine and security directories reviews that um now it's like suggested that every document before going to the submission to the isg need a routine and Security reviews so that is a very good point so we will proceed with that too then the same times as they work with last call we can't proceed with the separate right up and then if it's uh based on the result of the working last call we submit to the isg some comment on suggestions on these next steps okay thank you so Michael you said you wanted to do uh edits in terms of English proofreading did I get that right I was trying to capture note I just I I had some edits months ago that I some paragraphs that I found were really awkward and I thought that I could do provide some you know um changes to the text that made it easier to understand but um yeah it just requires a presence of mine that I no longer have that's all okay so you you mean you didn't have any significant change to the technology that's in this is document is that correct I don't think that I had any comments on the technology writing I just got we discovered that I had a different understanding but I don't think that's likely okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "thank you okay thank you I have a question for contract current um in the draft to go from the states uh from the state up to locally down you go to the suspected down state and in that you mark that you can use data plane and control plane and I would like to know if that applies well to the other transitions or only from foreign yes I think it can work also for the transition from uh so so from this shortcut transition as well let me just uh check the draft and the figure actually that's probably yes and as well in your paper as well the figure in your paper that you probably include this in the in the transition figure State machine so it will be nice maybe that you can put as well into the trough um the pictures or the picture of the your paper when there is the transition of Estates includes the figure includes data plane and control plane basically yeah initiated by control plane or data plane I would be nice to include in the figure because okay okay but I think both both can go like from up to locally down or suspected from suspected down to locally down they can be either via control plane or data plane and the same is true for 4A and 4B so that there is some symmetry like 2 2A and 2B can go Based on data play and control plane and the same for for a and for B I'm from locally down to globally down you mean data plane hey sorry right from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "from locally down uh to up and from suspected down to up so yes so if you can make as well this clarification when you use the transition from one state to other state you can say please in this one I suggest you use control plane and in this one data plane control plane okay okay I will try to integrate this uh in the in the text then because in the figure it's yeah okay yes in the text is enough but if you can yeah okay great thank you very much and then I have another comment um that trust I haven't taken the time to put it in writing uh I should do it but just mentioning um in section 5.5 about activating and deactivating the protocol um the first sentence reads that it can be activated and deactivated once per two type version and there's no normative language in that sentence and uh I put a note to myself to check whether that was somewhere normative in the same section or anywhere else in the document because this seems to be an important information that can be only once per do that version so okay I should maybe if you know your text very well you can point right at where it is made normative but suggestion but yeah that might be important actually so maybe this can should be replaced to something else then right well there are two two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "things in that sentence when the first thing is that it can be activated and deactivated and the other thing is that if it is ever uh activated that should be only ones okay okay so maybe that should be yeah okay something like that okay oh that's that's that's a good comment okay so I will just write them down on the comments thanks all right okay great thank you very much Dominique Conrad additional comments or suggestions I have one question regarding the next steps um I think Michael you are the shepherd on that one um how is it going the shepherd on this document RF NFD no I'm not the shepherd on this right in my records on January 3rd you said you you were doing chef and write up on this am I wrong I haven't started but I can do it that's for sure well if you can't handle the bandwidth which I kind of heard you say and write a Shepherd right up a Shepherd write-up is is not the same as a um English review okay up to you I don't want to force it well if you have someone else that wants to do it by all means in the next five seconds anybody volunteer to be the shepherd for that draft raise your hands friendly enough I hear nobody well Michael if if you can find time to do it that would be appreciated but if you know you're not going to be able to do it in the next you know a few weeks or two months and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "let us know so I'm gonna wait for the working group last call to post anything right yes I think you can do it at the same time yeah I mean I'll start beforehand but that won't there's no point until the end of the working group last call right because the write-up should describe how much review the document got in consensus Etc so okay very good I think we have a Way Forward okay great thank you Michael and Dominique okay additional comments or suggestions okay um Dominique oh yes I said I would speak to this one so um yeah on when was that on March or April I think much ask who among the office was willing to work and and answer the reviews Etc and remu stepped up and said yes um I commit to work on it and he did so congratulations and thanks you've complicated to find time but yeah some motivation helps yeah I want to commend you for doing it you know you said three weeks and you did it in three weeks that's very good and thanks a lot also to Alvaro for doing the review and providing the comments and and engaging so I understand the review was addressed the tickets were closed and then ticket 28 was reopened was it you rumors that reopened it um I I actually it's uh I think it's 25 so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "it's uh 25 yeah not 228 really it's the one that we discussed briefly with Pascal uh we have a responsible basically follow the recommendation from RFC 6519 um so there was a question because the the way we phrased it in our we basically wanted to to copy the structure from uh RFC 65 uh sorry 67 19. uh but since we are talking about another thing about the alternative parent we didn't copy it exactly in the same way and that left open a window for a discussion in which case it it deviates from how it works for the preferred parents so I think we resolved it I haven't closed the issue but basically we will uh we had some one part that was uh mandatory and another fund which was uh recommended and they would Clash so it's basically a small issue I can do it basically today I think it will be fine okay well in the meantime I opened the GitHub and I think the issue is that oh I'm sorry I haven't closed it yet but I will do it Robert no I mean the the issue is number 28 in GitHub no it's 25 actually okay so maybe we have a ticket and an issue so let me put this in the notes give me a sec hopefully we're speaking about the same thing yeah as far as I can tell um okay so I just put the I just put the issue the link to the issue in GitHub in the note yeah because I try to connect and before I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "connect it and now um it's uh 28 I think it's not this one double check okay no no it's the correct I'm sorry I I was looking um I think I had a another window open yeah that's fine okay the purpose was not to talk about the number anyway uh it was to talk about the contents I and I thought that I might be wrong that your last question was um the about the first part of the sentence that's highlighted in the slide uh an urge uh [Music] should set the cost to Max Plus cost if something I don't know what right from the top of my head one basically if the ca set does not match and so which it should set the cost to Max buff cost in I I thought I understood your question was well in general when we say should we should explain what the consequences are for not uh complying with the should and and so as an example for everybody's Enlightenment uh what is the kind of situation where you you would deviate from that recommendation and not set the cost to Max bus cost and I thought that was the question and first to that so effective questions I'm okay with them as not which I thought did not answer the that question that part of the question yes so for me I have thought about it and to be honest I haven't found a case where uh this where you wouldn't do it so if you fail the CIA requirements effectively the candidate neighbor shouldn't be chosen right it's uh it's a hard requirement so I think maybe I'm not actually sure even why in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "initial uh RFC the 6719 they did this as a recommendation as far as I remember there's no justification for this so uh for me I think we can keep it as a must not in that sense you mean most must be said to Max Plus cost because I at least I don't know in which case it could be something else so leaving that open for uh implementation if someone else is aware for a historical reason why this was not done as a as a requirement but as a recommendation I'm happy to to learn but but at least me I don't see any clear reason why and maybe what I could guess is that um for the Mr Hof you don't have an alternative parent so maybe they left this as a suggestion in the case where you don't really have any other parents and you'd like to still prefer a parent than having none maybe this is the closest thing I could imagine to avoid the case where you don't have any parents but even that I'm not sure if it's that original but it depends okay so for me a constraints is a constraint right yeah yeah absolutely okay Pascal any comment on that since you answered on issue in within GitHub that was three weeks ago so yeah I remember the discussion but uh so I missed I missed the fact that there was this reference to the master the recommend in in the Ripple snack um and and yeah I should revisit the text in repo but yes I mean at some point uh what size is correct you you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "need a parent and you might need to re-parent to somebody who's deeper and then you've got the loop avoidance thing so so but but I'm not sure if that's that recommendation in the original text was that over so I when if somebody can drop me an email um with just the text that was about that I'll send you one and and then we'll discuss what this text means and why it was there but right now without any context I cannot commit okay right so just send you the yeah that's why I'm speaking Dominique uh I was the orines I was looking at at your summary of what happened to the Dow projection we need new guys to to come back to the old projection before the end of this call because I did answer uh the the mail from Sue RS meet September around September 13. and so the ball is really in our camp not in mine okay there is a long discussion and I published 33 by the way okay that's it in the note um just to come back to NSA extension I think there are two points here so just for everybody to be in the same patient and that one point is why did ever Mr Hoff uh write should and what did the offers have in mind at that time and that just for General Enlightenment and the second thing is what should we do in NSC extension and I think we agree that you need to say extension we will write must be set to Maxwell's cost"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "um and and the rest is you know for General consistency and history so so as we quite explicitly write in the draft itself we tried not to deviate too much from Mr Hof so that it's the the text itself and the operation are as similar as possible um I think this is a the rare exception where we can uh slightly deviate with the must especially since we are talking about an alternative parent and not the preferred one so we can be a bit more strict let's say mm-hmm sounds good okay as chairs we have asked for a review from routing directorate and security directorate and well this well that was summer vacation I guess we haven't gotten any answer we ping them again I think a few weeks ago no answer yet so we'll keep putting pressure I think unless you have the control can you go to next slide please thank you so yeah let's try to get those reviews and then I'm the shepherd on this document so I will update the right up and I will issue another working group class call from just so that everybody is clear about this the the document was returned to the working group and so we'll do another working group plus call that should be quick especially based on the discussions we have right now and then resubmit any comments question on that I'll go ahead hey"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "if you want to ask the routing director to assign this to me I can take a look since I did that original review before oh and that would be fantastic yeah good thank you very much kill two versus I'm sorry what was that kill two birds with one stone we do two things at the same time oh okay got it thank you any other comments is there anything that uh I or JoJo's can do to help things uh in addition I don't think so I think we need reviews and but okay but then yeah I think we're in as a good shape as can be within the working group okay cool thank you um okay in this tune to carry on with uh mopex maybe yes thank you Dominique um Opex uh we got the comments is in progress we got comments from Alvaro to answer to Raul feedback and it was created a ticket into GitHub to drag this um I think a Raul should reply to Alvaro right now do you want to say something absolutely thank you very much for the review [Music] so so we have progressed halfway through but but still there are some points in there which which requires us to still some more proper understanding and you know we have to go back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "through the raft so all in all maybe we can expect a response by by the end of next weekend uh so so but yeah we are halfway through thank you [Music] yeah so in terms of timelines I think the Timeless that was suggested earlier is the thing I feel is all completely okay but yeah earlier I feel this should most likely cover most part of the review and updates we already have rabi and myself who have already discussed on the review comments [Music] will go over the next step but yeah expect a response so maybe in two weeks time actually [Music] okay great thank you very much Raul so for next steps that's the same as the previous document we will request the two internals review within the group working group and then at the same time the routing Security directorate reviews and then ISO about call and then to publish the write up separate write up and based on the voltage Roblox call results we submit to the isg some comment or questions about Disney's next steps okay thank you so for enrollment priority we have these open issues yes sorry yes sorry yeah a late comment on uh mopex um I I read it again uh quickly before the meeting and I I noticed this sentence that says we can use for mopex the same values as well in a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "mob field originally and this is to be taken as the same mode I'm sorry Raul you're coming in quite loud can you mute please thank you um um so we can reuse the same values in the mopex field and this is to be interpreted that the network is operating under the same mode with in the sentences with an augmented semantics or augmented meaning or something maybe some optional features are mandatory when this old mode is operated as a new mode in the mapex field um so I was wondering if we want to clarify that and especially with the assignment with Iana can we assign the old values in the new field to and and name them differently or something to explain that it's not quite the same mood as it was before so just open question and again I should put that in writing on the mailing list but since we're having a little bit of time here any comments on that clarification about that in the draft if not I'll that's that's that is something that definitely has to be clarified I guess the question if I just want to revisit the question the question is uh the old MLP values if they appear in the new Fields New Mob experience how should it be interpreted and whether there is not if there is no explicit text in the draft I thought there is an explicit text to that [Music] right service text that says it's the same value as before but because it's an it's in a new field maybe there are some features that are made mandatory that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "were optional before and it even has a link to the capabilities draft which we may be which may be a bit annoying if we want to publish um so two things is uh what do we really want in this draft and second uh for for the future uh we sure we want to just say it's the same but not quite the same or do we want to uh properly assigned to Old values in the new table with another name or something that allows us to be very explicit as to what the differences are between all the new of the same value that's my question that's a very very valid question I thought maybe the the text there is not very clear enough um I'll take that as an action item to check to view what the text is in the contest currently and see if we can improvise it yeah definitely the uh the reference to tripabilities have to be Revisited for sure I think it might be it might be a straight reference because if you remember there was a single Draft before for both the action items and objects and capabilities and then we later split it out and maybe some of these history references might have been left out there if it is that also wants to be corrected okay thank you sure that's all for me on this one thank you very much additional comment or questions okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "so for enrollment priority we have these open issues in GitHub I don't know Michael if these issues are still or should we close them are still on valid or should we close them if you want to take a look there are some questions that somewhere answer on some note yes um okay I have to go through them I think they're probably all answered but um um I'll have to go through them and be sure I just I just said before the meeting and probably half of it a bit more than a half are answered uh yeah that's what I thought incidentally I asked some question about by the way this option doesn't have a name in the draft it just says this option and I only after sending the mail out to everybody I discovered this was actually ticket number four so nothing new and this one is not answered yet as you mentioned in in the ticket uh it's not just about the enrollment variety because it also has the dude excise parameter um so maybe we want more General name or maybe stick with priority and and we still have the deck size added to it without mentioning I don't know participants open and also I I brought an email just before the meeting with two questions and one is about the explicitly explicit reset of the total timer uh when I look at the ticket there was a discussion at least a year back about you know what we currently have which is a t flag in the option that reset surgical timer in Pascal at the time was seeing there is a there are flags in the diu based object and we could allocate one flag there to say reset the trickle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "timer um so if we go that way then we don't need the t-bit in the Dio option so was that resolved somehow this discussion it seems we have two possibilities now as far as if I can say as far as I remember from the draft so issues 12 and 13 are already addressed in the draft you're right okay you're right that's exactly what I was mentioning issue 12 is answered by having a t flag in within the option but there was a prior discussion that maybe we did not need that t-bit in the option and maybe a better way of doing that would be to allocate a bit in the giu-based object to reset the trickle timer for use by any options not just this one um and and I don't know that we came to a conclusion regarding this discussion oh yeah Pascal doesn't you were part of that discussion at least a year ago I I think I remember this discussion but uh yeah same thing it's a ring the bell but it's a long long time but yeah I mean what what you said Rings about that okay let's revive the discussion on the main Stone we can all agree Fred and and links to our discussions okay I'll I'll do that take the action great thank you very much um as well I understand that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "um request to this Enderman priority it's a right contract yes yes it was already matched yes yeah okay and in the mail center today I had another technical comment uh since I'm also partly involved in compressing all these fields of all these IPv6 packets I was wondering whether it's a good idea to have 12 bits for the two deck size mantissa we have an exponent of page two exponents on 4 bits and we have 12 bits mantiser and the the recent versions of the draft explained that anyway the dudac size information is very approximate because it's counting uh Gau prefixes or addresses when we don't quite know how many nodes hide behind those prefixes and and we don't know what sort of traffic each of those nodes send out anyway and so they do the exercise information should be taken with a grain of salt and so I'm thinking about that I ask myself do we need 12 bits of resolution this seems kind of Overkill and and then if you try to compress that field we'll see entropy in that field then you know things like shake or others will have a hard time compressing that field because they vary all the time it seems to me four bits would be enough that would be for the mantissa that is about 10 accuracy and given the explanations that I just give previously that seems pretty good comments on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "and we would save a full bite in in the option we reduce it from two bytes to one byte I don't have any problem with that um um as you say it's an approximate number um Pascal I mean this was originally proposed by women um so I don't know if he had I'd love to have his opinion on on that scenario um so anyway okay let's carry on on the mailing list but the final concern is we wind up with an option with an odd number of bytes I don't think that's fundamentally a problem we haven't promised to be aligned at 16-bit boundaries for that anyway um so that's okay I guess okay great thank you um so for next steps well we will update the next versions and then follow up once once that the issues of cheese have half resolved we can proceed with the working relapse call and at the same time the rooting and security director reviews and then well with the shepherd and then based on the working group let's call results we sent me to the isg some additional Commander questions for these next steps okay thank you so next topic will be the upcoming role meetings so we think that will be nice to meet at the next IDF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "and what do you think to Yogi I think yes okay great it's in Europe so it's an opportunity for quite a few of the Usual Suspects to meet in person I would say um I think me I would do very much want to come but I'm not sure I have some medical things which I haven't booked yet so I need to see but uh yeah it would be nice okay thank you ARIS additional comments okay yes contact yes I I will also try to come I have teaching a lot of teaching actually so we have to check whether I will be able to miss dogs but if if he has then I I can come to try out of curiosity what do you need to to declare whether we will have a meeting or not to get the room deadline is then two days 22 is the deadline oh yeah so me I won't have information until tomorrow if I will be able to come sorry yeah well right but you always can participate remotely as well so it's not um I will not be physically in Prague oh in Brisbane but if the media happens sure I will join um great thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "is there a chance that you you're being sued to see if she has seen my response it was two weeks ago so well not clicks but I didn't see a confirm that she'll see my email so just to make sure that he's aware yeah nope yeah we heard you uh we'll yeah I'm writing a note somewhere to do that I think it's the rotting directorate right it was so the first pass because we're writing area before we can send anything to uhtf let's go I guess that's where we are right now and then the Rio is quite interesting and deep and then so that was great um now she had some issues at the very beginning of the document and I don't necessarily agree with what she said so if you could look you know the many shoes why she said not ready uh I'd like to I believe it should be discussed because I don't necessarily agree but some other people might agree so I gave my response um and would like to see other people chime in and maybe Michael ask whoever you can look at my response at Susie shoe and my response whether I'm correct or not okay Point again and and taking note in the introduction actually because that's when we talked about the projection yes that's where I commented out that I had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "published version 33 as a response yeah thank you for that for correcting yeah I think you mentioned that the discussions should be taken about if the draft will be experimental or not but yes that was that very true and many of the drops that we've done at 12 aware just in that exact same shape as this one I mean we we are doing new things um the only one we tried for experimental was the P2P and and all that did is that the P2P was never implemented or tried by anybody so the intention of experimental doesn't really work without space so so say that putting into experimental would just kill it because nobody you know in University Academy Etc would try to implement it so it's not a good idea I mean if it was so then even Ripple would have been experimental so the way we've handled that in the past is that we have left us back open open for you know not to be too strict in settings and stuff that's probably one explanation for the recommended by the way in in Mr Huff uh I'm not sure so if I have to review Mr half a not another of that there are Cesar so I don't know it that well um but it could be that the recommended was just well your first one not too sure um leave it open um same thing here I mean we have a spec doing something that we've never tried before so clearly it has the same status as an erfc that we've done before meaning we've done different things to our track and the only thing we did the only time we did not was a huge failure probably because of that so if we if we place this one that's experimental we just kill it well it was a lot of work I don't want to see it just killed by your status"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "okay well taken back to the agenda Maybe so the question was about the interim meetings next question but internal meetings that looks good to me uh uh yeah that looks good to me this time was okay um monthly maybe maybe every two months maybe enough okay and I'm I think that setting a good Cadence um will actually make us more efficient um because we'll remember um um we'll remember what's going on yeah yeah that's right and yeah I've taken the protection item to organize that over the summer and yeah did not pursue that this meeting is kind of late but uh with this meeting and the the role session at itf118 uh then then the next interim would probably be uh yeah mid-December or beginning in January that would be probably and then we can have a two or three space above two months maybe in the in the spring it could be so our Horizon for the the current pieces of work anybody strongly objects to Thursdays and 1pm UDC sharing none so we'll just go with that thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "okay and about one hour it's fine I think so yes it seems to be okay great thank you some comments additional comments so okay yeah we run out of uh oh yeah okay open floor we have five minutes eight minutes yes so I have I have one item for open floor um as you know most of you know probably I'm currently transitioning away from work to an era where I have I can focus on more personal projects and [Music] I've realized that even though maybe originally I thought I would have more free time for doing ietf stuff I realized that been quite uh dragged into many other projects which are non-work related and so my intention is to step down as a working group co-chair within the next six months maybe so sometime between Prague and Brisbane or at Brisbane I would not be there physically but at least around that time and so if anybody has always had the dream of becoming co-chair of role this is probably a good time for you I know the audience isn't quite numerous today [Laughter] but yeah actually those who are present are those mostly involved more was deeply involved in the work control nowadays"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "the problem is most relevant to become co-chairs overall so yeah you don't have to oh my God to step up right now but think about it if anybody is interested otherwise we'll go the usual route for finding another code here that was my item for open floor any other item maybe I can pose a question how much time does this take out of your schedule out of curiosity because as a participant I have no good visibility into the demands of such a responsibility to be honest it's very adjustable adaptive only it can be as infinite as you want it to be if you want to do everything right and and be on top of things constantly it can be a significant part of your time and to be honest this summer I've kind of disappeared for two months and so yes if you sample my amount of work for these two months it was close to zero but you can't do that forever you have to connect I would say it involves about two to three hours um every other week to catch up on all the emails and make some decisions and talk to your co-chair so that's kind of the minimum for uh a working group for keeping things running yeah and and then if you want to get involved I mean and understand exactly what the drafts are about of course it means reading the drafts reading the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "you know to put requests again the issues the discussions that can be as much as you want okay cool thank you I I don't know if I'm the best person to do it but since you opened it to everyone I will think a bit about it and uh I guess we'll continue over email sounds good yes one thing you need to know also is um in a working group you you need to decide whether you're mostly a participant well with technical contributions or if you must be chair in your space yes you participate to the discussions but you don't find your name on on the work basically foreign between being you know Shepherd chair Etc and being an offer so it's kind of a role play that in a working group you'll be a participant and in the other working group should be the chair and and yeah you know the first group chair will be a participant in the second group you can see Pascal alternating between walls in the various groups yes we have that story and by the way to go with you I mean I will I will leave Cisco probably between now and the end of the year that's that's the plan so I'm going to be in the same situation as you are and I don't know exactly what I'll do in the future but very similar okay thank you very much for the inside info thank you very much to everyone uh domini will greatly miss you you are doing a great job last year and you are great here so I want to yeah I'm very happy to work with any of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "you and thank you very much for volunteer for this role uh if when you take your decision we can have a meeting to explain you we probably have pvt meetings with the chairs we speak about the status of the working group but we will send as well maybe to you some links so you can read and the ITF there are a lot of information for chairs and what is the scope of the role and so on so you can you can decide and we I will be very happy to work with any of you and Dominica really say million things for your standing work and still I'm happy that we still have a lot of months to work together so yeah exactly yes I was going to say yes of course don't worry me quickly no no never no but I just want to say once once again thank you very much thank you thank you okay yeah [Music] additional communal questions okay so thank you everyone for your participation and I hope to meet you in the next ITF thank you bye bye-bye thank you bye bye they're a big big thanks for all the work you've been doing thank you Pascal same to you you've been huge I think that was really great time so thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "thank you I hope we have an opportunity to have a beer sometime have a little story to tell you my boyfriend mayor right you know I will be using it for for yeah you know it right actually the scale I'll be in this next week from Monday to Wednesday do you have time probably now you need Social Security place uh um well between biot and will France during the day and Beyond at night well so so not early at night he'll be very close so that would be nice I mean I would love it okay okay that's it okay bye-bye foreign"
  }
]
