[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "Alright. TikTok. It's the bottom of the hour. Find a seat. Put your conversation on pause for a minute. Let's have a meeting. This is the routing area open meeting. Thank you for being here. I'm John. Games. Elder, Gunther. Andrew. And there's Andrew on TV. We have the same note well as everybody else does. And, hopefully, you've already noted it Well, well, So we have a short meeting. If somebody is willing to Take notes. That would be awesome. Thank you so much, Darren. You know, we don't need extensive ones, action items, the usual. Agenda bashing. Hopefully, there's not a bash, but, you know, if, if there's anything that we're missing on here, please speak up. Otherwise, we'll do a very brief state of the area, and then we've asked 3 working groups chosen not at random to report out. By the way, at any one of these things, if you happen to feel like you to now. Want to report out and we haven't asked you to, you're always allowed to propose a a talk So, I think there's been less action than there was in the last couple meetings, but, raw has closed. We have been talking that up, so that should not be a surprise to anyone that's rolled into debt net. Babble is expecting to close soon, and we don't currently have any new working groups or boss."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "So Thanks so much to Andrew Alston. And welcome to Gunther. And, so this is the the sort of TLDR of working group assignment changes, but that's the full list of how the, the working groups are gonna be distributed so everything stays the same except Gunter is taking over with LSR. I'm taking over with IDR. You can read the rest. And That's the full list. Yeah. That's it for our, For our slides, So Let me get the slides queued up for 1st, Jeffrey. Soon as I can remember how to operate the slide clicky thing. Yes. A Okay. So I'm Jeffrey Drum, a co chair for the Rig Forking Group. There's not a Jeff. So Jeff and Jeffrey. So Rifts is, relatively new routing protocol for data center. It basically links to the routing in the northbound and distance vector routing in the south bounce. The working group was chartered with 3 initial deliverables based protocol specification, applicability statement and the YAM model. Finally, we finished The riff base base protocol that grabbed rig, riff, dash 20 passed the ATF for last call. In seas. And thanks for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Jim and Alvaro. Going through the painful process, review it, and both of up revisions. Also, of course, the the co authors of the protocol and, working group members. The applicability statement reason, one revision to catch up the changes in the most recent gen, respect change. And the yamamoto drafts, it's in the AD evaluation or AD follow-up, but we I we believe we also need the 1 provision tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk t tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk t tuk tuk t tuk tuk tuk tuk tuk t tuk tuk tuk t to catch to catch up. So that's the existing work. There are quite some follow-up work that we want to do We have not started the, recharter process, but we are discussing, your charter. And here's, some basic, items we we thought about want to continue to work on. K value store policy guided the prefix. Segment routing, modicus, different topology and, dragonfly topologies. And also using ripped, 0 touch provisioning for automatic provisioning of other protocols on mechanics. For example, use it for EVPN, overlay or ISS flood reflection, apology, discovery, things like that. Also, we would like to explore the use and the extensions of the reef protocol. For the newer AIml data center architectures. So that's the thing we are thinking of. Obviously, this is need more discussions and to finish all these things. Some. That's the update from the working, the Riffel Working Group Region. Thank you. And, well, Jim yeah. I just wanted to say, so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "So the the base spec is as you said, has gone through last call. I do encourage people to Go and look at the document. The more feedback I get before it goes through the final process, the better. I did wanna say thank you to, of people, Donald, very kindly did a very thorough review. I'm very thankful for that. And also both of, for my Current co ADs, both, Andrew and and John have given it a good once over as well. So so I do encourage people to go and look at the doc and, and give us as much feedback. It's heavy going because it's a big document. But there's some really Pretty cool stuff in there. If you haven't already read it. So any feedback, definitely appreciated. Ted Andrews. Thanks. that? What's Oh, Andrew. Andrew, were you wanting to say something? It it, it, Mike looks like it's hot. No. Might should have been off. Okay. I mistake. And in Hi, presenting on behalf of my coachail. Richard is not here today. So what's this? Just this Brief refresher, let's is and a really routing that separates the identifier and the procedure. So we have actually a mapping And cup decal. Vertical. The map server is actually responsible for the mapping of the EID, which is the import identifiers, you know, less"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "to the route locators which are typically, the IP addresses Well, the scope of list technology is has been the applicable tour of Maershi long larger spans is where it starts started out, we will see in the future's next slide. And, the big news is that the working group has a new charter and was approved January 26th. So, I am just going to show to to transferred work items, but I'm not going to go through them in detail here. I just want to see time. So we're moving some of the standard some of our previous experimental documents to standard truck But there's still a few of them that we need to do your work, and they are listed here. For example, the multicast, the kind of call addresses then we've all been working on a reliable transport for the mapping system, just because there are certain cases where scalability doesn't work very well. There's a lot of retransmission in definitely have a nervous service would be better. And, The young models, of course, we'll be exploring the traffic engineering that has been several propositions over the years, but we we we we we We want to finish on those. And, that transversal is something which is what was sip almost pretty. Privacy and security. We have been working on advertising EIDs and, having encrypted course, identifiers as well. So we'll be diving into this, Then, let's external connectivity. It's more about less talking to other services that are non list sites And, of course, mobility, I'll one big advantage of lists is that because they separation between the identifier and locate a cater and a mapping system. Mobility works well for it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "And, last is we'll have much more applications and less than we did. Previously, One of them, for example, is automobile. Industries, we're still having, actually going to rebound the use case dark. Now, just an update on the documents that we have here Most of these dogs, that we have are based on the charter and the priority in the charter. So the first one is, the one with the red dot, the is, traffic engineering is actually needs some review right now. We're almost done with the name and coding And, The only reason why it's still here is because we're discussing now whether we want to put it in to a standard track rather than experimental track. The next one, the hexagon is like this red here, but actually, the story on that one is the review was done on a very older an older version. So I think it's ready to get resubmitted. So we'll do that. And then, there's 2 other drafts right now. Reliable Transport. And yamal yamal is closer the end. to There's a couple of questions that came up and that the working group is getting falls on what we want to do. For example, Some of the coordinates are done in latitude, whether they're in decimal references, for example, And, The last one, the reliable transport is one referral review and the 2 8 pairs. And, want to have some feedback there that's still going to it ourselves. Right. And then the next cell we have issue are you know, other RFCs here who have to, or drafts that have to go into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Oh, Again, that cycle. So right now, one of those is the net transfer phone it is, I think, pretty close as well. So the others will come back. As we look at this priority, which is basically the milestone that we're occurring to a math. So most of the graph that we've seen just before, or I can be actually grouped into those into those milestones, and that's where we are aiming for. For this year and next year, hopefully getting all these papers out and and then we'll reevaluate Thank you. Hi. I'm Tony Lee. I'm presenting on behalf of Tarek, Nick. At our outgoing chair, Adrian. So as you may call, Laura stepped down after serving as chair for 20 years. We'd like to again thank him for his service. I think we should be saying that for another 20 years. Adrian stepped up to fill his role and has been helping things a company move along, and he One of his preconditions was that he stepped down after this IETF. So he will be stepping down, and I am now the incoming co chair. We have lots of documents in progress. We are juggling many, many things. I am not going to read all of them in detail. If you would like to talk about them, Please come to the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "We'll be happy to talk about the the most important thing to know is that we are still very working on MNA. Network actions. And we have lots of documents in the queue for that. And those we hope to progress very rapidly at this point. So Lots of little things. K. Things completing working call. group last Things coming out. Things queued for publication, Oh god. Again, we're working on M And a. We have some reports of implementation experience not all of it could, but that's interesting. We're works works working through that, trying to figure out what to to do about that, if anything. We want to have an interim after 119 to help settle this So we'll continue, still doing some house client cleaning for some expired I 8 IDs. Just again. Large backlog documents. We have a interesting liaison statement from itusg11. This actually didn't come to us directly. But it bounced off to MPLS. And we've responded. This is about doing basically trace route for MPLS, and basically sent sg11a diplomatically worded note. Alright. That's all my slides. And questions. Alright? Thank you. That went really fast. The the the one thing that to me that we didn't have on the slides up front was we have routing area office hours."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "On, Thursday at lunchtime. So you know, please feel free to avail yourself of that. We also apparently have an extra 44 minutes right now. So, unless anybody has anything else they'd like to bring up right now, we are fluted, but, you know, if you there's anything you wanna talk about? Step right up, and I do see Andrew at the mic. So please go ahead, Andrew. Yeah. I just wanted to say a sincere thank you to got, you know, Jim's for the time working with me. It's been great guys. And all your hard work during the time has been appreciated, and you will both be missed advised step down. So thank you. And if everybody could give them a round of applause for all the hard work they do that would because I'm cheering up, man. I'm cheering up. We'll miss you too. Don't be a stranger. And, with that, we are, in fact, concluded. Thank you, everybody. Well, that was quick. Yeah. Yeah. Uh-oh. out Look Looking out looking out with Jonah. Eagle Tarsom, I wanted to figure out Okay. The if you guys"
  }
]
