[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "you uh you take notes in either pants I can you know what you want to try that with sons that\u0027s what I just did yeah so for everybody in the room if you\u0027re going up to the mic please make sure that your batch is name visible on both sides please so I can take down your name correctly spelled thank you [Music] okay so it\u0027s the time when we start and it\u0027s eius eius the agenda is up there on the screen [Music] alright so we got that we have a minute taker jabber scribe what was last week meetup go support so here\u0027s the note well I guess part in bold I\u0027m supposed to read like you\u0027re participating with the ITF you agree to the following idea of process and policies if you\u0027re aware that any contribution is something written Saturday closing IETF context is provided by Heather covered by patents or patent applications you must disclose the fact or not participate in the discussion you understand that meetings might be recorded or broadcast audio/video photographed and public archived and other details are covered in this okay so the agenda bashing well I have one item on this Russ White was going to predict was going to present the open fabric is is he also just did that in routing working group so I\u0027m curious what the number of people that were just in writing working you saw that presentation raise your hands and who has not seen that presentation okay rust you got no there\u0027s two to four and a lot seen it so I think your last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "so everyone else okay just everyone\u0027s gonna yeah so Russ raise your hand if people want to talk to him about open fabric there he is I think that\u0027s the only agenda bashing that I have done anybody else seventy dude do a manuals that are okay so the document status portion so we have to RFC\u0027s that went forward auto configuration and multi instance the biz adaption there that allows for multi instance well multi topology in multi instance i size and also my little tool kicked out five three oh nine and I was like huh didn\u0027t think that that was a new RFC and I had to ponder why that was there it was there because we had a rata publish on it this last time was relatively minor errata on the point-to-point graphs that just had some clarifications on what to do with art in onion on numbered links yeah and numbered or unnumbered was the clarification we have the LT bundles in the RFC ed Q yeah so it this is looks like I don\u0027t actually know what\u0027s what\u0027s holding its up at this point yeah okay so so I guess we should expect it to move okay so we\u0027re looking to that RC soon we have two working group last calls the beer one is actually that\u0027s actually in beer it\u0027s kind of notice beer comes before is is there so that\u0027s working good last call in another working group but it affects us the bold and these by the way are the presented ones these are updated documents we have an adoption call for the Ginsberg is highest EE app we also have contention on that still which we hope to cover in this meeting and any else convention should be soon resolved there was the contentious draft or one of and that was submitted by Chris recently and we have a some individual documents that have been updated recently and we have presentations for the spine leaf and the Flex II and that\u0027s the other tea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:12",
    "text": "proposal together so there\u0027s another topic okay so uh the ADEs want to combine the iGPS well I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m not allowed to refer to them as the IGP is the link state IG peas and go ahead go to the next so the I asked the you know for clarification why do you want to do this what problems are we solving and we came up with these couple problems so it gives it an exposure to more experts like where there isn\u0027t overlap we get some new blood into both groups and and both in more people looking at the problems faces that they face there\u0027s less duplicated overlap work I think it\u0027s the one that kind of drives this as everyone seems like the segment routing extensions drafts that are literally duplicated almost copy and pasted into both protocols specs we didn\u0027t you last time this came up we didn\u0027t have that as much we had a lot of the trill work going on and we had so when I\u0027d ran the sort of stats on that we were only overlapping like 20% like I haven\u0027t done that yet for this time around I will I suspect the number of overlaps are higher so it does I guess it\u0027s useful to look at it again the issues that I saw with this that I put in here and are the groups have different audiences typically OSPF that covers a lot much larger audience and a number of people are a number of uses I size tends to be like in a kind of a data center and a Tier one area and so there\u0027s sometimes the solutions look little different like what looks better for one is maybe not as good for the other you know Tier one is yes I mean the how you adopt changes and how quick you can make changes things like that are maybe a little different and also it may influence the choices to be the same so whereas in before it might have been easier to pick a different route for the the protocols or because we operate in these different spaces I think that that\u0027s gonna be less doable if we\u0027re in a combined group and I think it\u0027s good want is gonna be come up with a single solution for both I think that\u0027s gonna be the the general intention most of the time it may be harder to get one work done trying to convince the other side I mean some people some people are I as I spoke some fellows get folks and they think about things differently and we make into these arguments that we wouldn\u0027t have gotten into before and there are for some people they don\u0027t go to both groups right they\u0027re not interested in both protocols so this does create more work we can do I\u0027ve got time in for talk so let me just finish this last slide so buy more work you can see that that\u0027s already going to start "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "because the proposal that I negotiated with Dahlia was that we would run a joint session next time and that we would combine the mailing lists so they will still be eyes eyes nose mailing list but OSPF mail will go to eyes is and eyesize mail go to OSPF so we can start and feel over the next four months and the next working group what this looks like right and what it feels like but so low and aresome can you go back one slide I want to actually challenge the let\u0027s duplicated overlap work because you are extending the protocol separately so you actually do the same amount of work now we do it in two working groups the yonk working group would have to do it in two separate documents and it\u0027s not a given that that is actually less work because the confusion between the two graphs is potentially getting more confusion between the documents if you have notice aimed at the table at the same time so and especially the TE extension we have seen quite nice work between the gmpls MPLS working groups and the separate protocol world but for working groups so I\u0027m not everything else I think it\u0027s fine but the training less duplicated work I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a good I think you\u0027re suggesting it\u0027s more subtle than that there there is there\u0027s still gonna be some overlap because we can publish one draft and have two sections eyes eyes and OSPF in it with any kind of duplicated work or descriptions above it the benefit there I do see I\u0027m not all for this idea but but the benefit there is that you do have one place of the high-level description of what you\u0027re trying to do right and then you literally keep the mechanics down to just the mechanics putting by default putting tease those and into the same document is I think that\u0027s just a disaster you have to have a separate document that you can refer to you when you do design and don\u0027t don\u0027t cross over to the other protocols it ain\u0027t fair so unless Ginsburg just kind of following up on Lois point I think would be a big mistake to try to take a particular problem space and make one draft that extends both protocols I think that would be very confusing what would make sense to me if we\u0027re going to do this is sort of the I guess it\u0027s the PIM hambone D model where they meet together but there are still two working groups in two chairs so by two cents there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:16",
    "text": "actually plenty of seating space here in the front row please so what I mean so it\u0027s less to that point that\u0027s why I kind of requested the joint session is that what you\u0027re thinking that that would be enough to solve the issues that the ABS have recognized yes I mean I if part of the goal is let\u0027s get the same audience for both iGPS because we are solving a lot of the same problems in both working groups find have one meeting so now you get everybody attending together so I would like to point out there\u0027s a single instance I\u0027m aware of of a common draft between OSPF knives is which is the point-to-point over Ethernet broadcast thingy I think that\u0027s both a positive thing in telling us that it\u0027s possible but also ordinary on that simple like it needs to be that simple to be possible but also I think there\u0027s a misunderstood in terms of areas because my personal experience with operators is that it doesn\u0027t matter what the use case is to decide what protocol they use it matters what they as a person really started with and are comfortable of it and I know a lot of people who run eius eius and smaller networks it\u0027s not not a large chunk but still I don\u0027t think this is valid to make us an assumption that protocols are this clearly delineated in usage space well that is so David I I I hear what you\u0027re saying but those the small groups I think are enthusiasts right I mean they they\u0027re not people that are coming to IETF and doing routing protocol urging console I\u0027m not saying they\u0027re not important but OSPF I think has a wider scope of users different types of users so I think the argument that I\u0027m trying to make here is if you happen to be for example hiring a company that designs your network for you they may very well put is is on your to router network that only has three subnets or something so I\u0027ve seen that happen so I support this proposal I think you know one area where the two working groups I think have not been doing a particularly good job is in documenting use cases for extensions the use cases in both in both of the IGP or link-state iGPS are generally pretty pretty similar and so that work could certainly be combined and perhaps part of the reason it hasn\u0027t been done is because you know we\u0027d have to do it in OSPF and is is two more drafts in addition to the the two encoding drafts and if it were only one draft for use cases for Isis and OSPF and we really agree upon those before we jump into encoding x\u0027 that might have a great benefit Michael Abramson so wouldn\u0027t wouldn\u0027t we need to identify gaps in features between the two - the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "currently and fix that disparity before this can be done or that would be like the one of the first things that we saw working on me this happened no I I don\u0027t think that it\u0027s a just that that would be in the the Charter work and I don\u0027t think that we would charter ourselves with the goal of making the protocols feature that paired reaching parity and all features and not in doing gap analysis and stuff I think it would just literally be running them together so in case one thing that we want to do requires more work on one protocol than the other than that would over time just automatically fix itself for the things that are needed okay I think AC Linda I think when we talked about this three years ago we weren\u0027t as far along now we pretty much it it\u0027s different encodings and we shouldn\u0027t get hung up on the size of the TLV types and the length and things like that too much with the encoding and try and say oh those have to be common because then you run into problems but or you know you know there\u0027s a different level of granularity in the information but now that we have TLV mechanisms for the base OSPF lsas you know and we have implementations and we have we pretty much can do it all the same things so it should get to me more of that now granted we\u0027re gonna have enhancements like all the data center flooding optimizations that maybe maybe I mean I think it might be make sense to do them in one protocol first and then if they\u0027re successful and adopted then you know do it in the next protocol but I I don\u0027t think in terms of things you can do I think you can do you\u0027ll do it in a different way but you can do any anything you needed protocol okay generally I definitely support this idea of merging the working groups of course there is some not fully aligned audience between them but it\u0027s not a first group which would have people terrorists in some topics and not others I\u0027ve been in attending teas for some time for some of the topics not all there are people involved in LDP in MPLS not in their SDP there are various working group already current multiple protocols with missile audience it\u0027s not an issue at all on the other hand it could also be beneficial because sometimes people get lazy they push an extension one protocol and forget to promote the other one where there are some people could be interesting in having the same level of feature in both so combining working group will help address those missed feature on some corner cases so I support that Thanks just some of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "people who think that merging groups might be a good idea any people who seem to believe that merging groups is a bad idea yeah so this will be more discussion we\u0027re going to do the joint sessions I personally like the idea of stopping there and that\u0027s just my personal opinion I think we can solve a lot of the problems by running a joint session I don\u0027t think that we have to necessarily have an IG people and also don\u0027t change the work makeup and I mean have a review lottos peel I don\u0027t like that okay or less oh you need to put something in okay unless Ginsburg this is an update on te aptitude attributes draft application um we just reminder of the motivations we wrote I thought it was gonna well that\u0027s it that was beautiful yeah that\u0027s alright I just thought I could be like a real TV host or something but yeah so we did this for principally because there currently is no way to deploy multiple applications and have an indication of there\u0027s only one way to advertise link attributes per link and there\u0027s no way to indicate which set of the advertisements should be used by a particular application and and whether the advertisements on a particular link are not to be used by a particular application so that\u0027s the problem we set out to solve acknowledgement to Peter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:23",
    "text": "and the OSPF draft because that was the initial definition of the problem in a solution and this is equivalent to Peters drafting OSPF in terms of the solution so what are their requirements we want to be to indicate on a per application basis which links have advertisements that are to be to be used by a particular application note that this is not enabling an application it\u0027s not an indication of whether the application is enabled on the link it\u0027s an indication of whether the advertisements are to be used by a particular application we want to be able to advertise per application values we want to have efficient encoding so there are certainly deployment cases where the same values on a given link can be used by multiple applications we don\u0027t want to have to a needless when you advertise the same value twice we want to be able to support incongruent apologies meaning that there\u0027s a subset of the links in the given topologies where a particular application wants to use the advertised values and another application they want to use the values advertised on a different set of links we want this to be easily extensible we have three applications standard applications defined at the moment perhaps a few years from now we\u0027ll have five or six who knows we don\u0027t want to have to revise the protocol when that happens we want to be able to support partial deployment and have this be backwards compatible we do not want to upgrade one node of the network to support this and have to do something on all the legacy notes in order to make them continue to work and we also want to be able to support BGP LS and we want to be able to advertise the values for all of these applications in BGP LS so this is covering mostly the changes that have occurred since the last ITF we got a bunch of comments that said in addition to standard applications we\u0027d like to be able to support user-defined applications so we\u0027ve redone the format of the TLV and we now have a standard application pit mask the user-defined application pit mask and the lengths of each mask before we actually advertise the the applications themselves so this is just a bit more detail on the standard application bitmask there are currently three applications defined one of them is the legacy rsvp-te when we have srte and we have Ellijay there\u0027s a new sub "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:29",
    "text": "TLV for the iose neighbor the various flavors of iose neighbor TLV and this is the set of sub tlvs the existing sub tlvs that we advertise link attributes that will also be ever amortized in this new sub TLV that set has not changed since the last revision we\u0027re also supporting this for s or LG in the case of SR LG we did introduce a new top-level TLV because the existing tlvs we had one for ipv4 and one for ipv6 and we did not want to have to allocate to tlvs so we\u0027ve changed the format a bit so that it supports both ipv4 and ipv6 okay deployment cases these are just some examples of what you would do based upon the nature of your deployment so if you have just legacy rsvp-te only you make no changes you utilize the same advertisements you\u0027ve always been using if you have multiple applications one of them as rsvp-te and you have common attributes and comment apologies for both applications then you use the legacy advertisements you advertise the new sub TLD with the set of applications to which those advertisements link attribute advertisements apply and you indicate that you there\u0027s a bit in there that you indicate I want to use the legacy advertisements so this basically costs you three extra bytes per link but the the actual attribute advertisements themselves have not changed and they\u0027re still going out as like unless I have a question on this so having read both of these things it seemed like the other presentation was just to not do anything is there a reason you actually have to advertise the legacy bit I mean why not just have the default we use the legacy value yeah this is a good question actually so with this draft you have explicit indication of which advertise which applications are using which advertisements aren\u0027t only in chris\u0027s draft you do not write but the differences yeah so yours would work though even if you just didn\u0027t explicitly advertise in the Lincoln you know one of the comments and Chris I\u0027ll make the comment to you and it works both ways that I don\u0027t think the purpose of this meeting is for you and I to continue to argue I think the purpose of this meeting is hear what everybody else so I\u0027m not telling you not to speak but I\u0027ll try to do the same in your presentation okay there\u0027s also an extended period of time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "you guys could argue after both only cursory I can\u0027t speak but so yeah I mean if you don\u0027t have explicit indication then when you advertise legacy how do you say Jesus new application I don\u0027t want you to use those values on this particular link couldn\u0027t you advertise a flag with an MP sub TL visa so that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing no no for the new application yes that\u0027s exactly what we\u0027re doing we advertise no I\u0027m so I\u0027m saying you advertise your legacy values and then you advertise the new TLV with the application mask with the new applications with an empty sub TLV set so it doesn\u0027t use the legacies or with new TVs that it\u0027s supposed to use so this is if you look at this slide you\u0027ll see that in the application identifier we have the length with a flag so it gives you the length of what are these let\u0027s say the standard applications whether you use defining application how many bits are you advertising and you have a flag that says I\u0027m not going to actually advertise any link attribute specific to these applications I want you to use the legacy you know I understand that but that\u0027s not what I was saying what I was saying was that if you if if the default is to use the legacy then you all you need to be able to do is say what doesn\u0027t use the default right because if you don\u0027t say what doesn\u0027t use the default so everything uses the default unless you tell it not to yeah yeah and that\u0027s a fundamental difference between the two drafts okay but it would work in yours too no it does not work Peter you wanna it\u0027s feeling from Cisco so I guess the difference is that we always specify the set of attributes that you want to use we never fall back right unless you say Elbit which means everybody is default but if you advertise something for a specific set of applications or for an application and you have to specify all dealing attributes in other words you do not have unless you have a paradise meant not the negative one unless you have explicit indication of which for each application whatever ties mints are to use whether their legacy advertisements or the new advertisements then you have no way of saying gee I have a bunch of legacy advertisements on this length and I do not want this is this application to use them do you you I can maybe we can take this offline but I just don\u0027t I don\u0027t understand why this is technically not feasible I if I if I advertise the tlvs that I want with the new application with the new application TLV you defined that\u0027s what the application should use so the the other alternative is I have I want to use the same set of link attributes on a given "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:30",
    "text": "link for both rsvp-te and a new application and you\u0027re telling me I have to advertise them twice could be done but it\u0027s less efficient what we\u0027ve defined here is a way of saying I don\u0027t have to advertise the link after you values themselves as you\u0027re saying that this has to do with whether it\u0027s enabling the application at all on the link that\u0027s the thing that you know so do not use the words you say putting where it\u0027s definitely deliberately staying away from that we are saying a set of applications we\u0027re giving you an indication as to whether these attributes are to be used by this application so it\u0027s nothing about whether the application is locally enabled on that way okay well what I\u0027m saying is that if you\u0027d if you didn\u0027t specify anything then all applications are enabled for those those legacy values and that\u0027s exactly what we don\u0027t want to do okay because then if I don\u0027t do that I cannot support incongruent apologies no no yeah one of the keys is to understand number one we\u0027re not talking about enablement we\u0027re talking about using a set of advertisements and we\u0027re saying for a new application we are not making the assumption that your your all of the links for which rsvp-te advertisements are being made are also useful for this new application the easiest way to think of this is I have a deployment a partial deployment of SR I have running rsvp-te and srte in my network but I have I do not have a fully congruent set of links for both applications so I have to be able to say on these links srte is not using the RC VTE advertisements and that\u0027s subtly different from not enabled Wow it\u0027s if you have to look at the encoding okay but less this isn\u0027t a certain way a bit of a deviation how we historically used to migrate protocols I mean when we did actually you know the IP reach we extended IP reach transition right that was always the sort of inclination to make sure that the metrics are congruent right I don\u0027t this this goes I know we could deviate on this for a good while I don\u0027t think that description is accurate one of the reasons that the extended reach ability tlvs were indented was because the old-style metrics were too limited you know 1 to 63 was just not enough range for us and how you migrated is one thing but the eventual goal of migration was now I have a much bigger "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:32",
    "text": "metric space to play around with the goal wasn\u0027t to stay within 63 so I don\u0027t think these new things are down raishin Bindo you want to ensure that both new style actually also goes with six bit metrics as with old-style and after you have converged you network to the new software set we can assign your fancy metrics well so here wearing a migration window that was congruence that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to say but here we\u0027re talking about different applications in the migration between old-style reach ability and new style reach abilities if you are not changing the base functionality of the protocol the difference is that you want to be able to have this congruence and I would say there is no historical precedence for that I would say that the the scenario you are describing is not at all analogous okay we\u0027re talking about two different applications we\u0027re talking in this if we use the examples of our CPG in srte there is no requirement that says you must run both of these on the same set of wings that\u0027s completely different than running is is and advertising reach ability in two different ways so I have to ask you in when you say running on the same or a different set of links that is not enabling on those links or not so it\u0027s easy for me to fall out of my my strict use of of terminology and I emphasize again we\u0027ve made this point in the draft I\u0027m making the point in the slide I apologize for its miss wording I don\u0027t understand how it isn\u0027t so the easiest way to understand this is to use the example of LFA I advertise link attributes for use by LFA maybe some note five hops away based on what I advertise decides which LFA he prefers that says nothing about whether locally I\u0027m using that link for repair that\u0027s based on a completely different configuration how am i doing well so let\u0027s let\u0027s keep going and because we have worried ok so again this is the deployment case you have two applications they are using the same set of advertisements what you do is you use the legacy advertisements because one of the applications is RTP te and you include this new sub TLD that says your srte is using the legacy advertisements on this link you do not have to duplicate the actual link attribute advertisements themselves which is what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:34",
    "text": "takes up all the space there\u0027s a case where you have multiple applications and at least some of the attributes are not shared with rsvp-te and/or there are some links that you want to use for the new application you don\u0027t want to use that link for our CP te you again you use the legacy advertisements for our CP te you use the new advertisements in this case you set the L bit as clear meaning I\u0027m not using the legacy advertisements for the new application and in those cases where your link attributes are the same on a particular length you do have some duplication these are a few examples of use cases that hasn\u0027t changed there is an alternative proposal and Chris is going to speak to that way back at IETF 97 we at least all did agree that we want one solution we\u0027re talking about this both in OSPF NIS is and whatever we decide we want both working groups to follow the same solution we have asked for working group adoption by my last count this was the opinions expressed they\u0027re not all public that\u0027s completely true I\u0027m just reporting what what has been on the list okay so this is the comparison between the solution described both in in the Ginsburg draft and the Senate draft and the comparison against the there\u0027s a pair of eius eius drafts for the equivalent the second draft the T attribute set draft just came out pretty recently there isn\u0027t an equivalent in OSPF yet but I\u0027m assuming you would do the same thing you know SPF if you are moving ahead so this is sort of a comparison of again the the first column is that a set of requirements that we had when we started out to define this solution and we look at what happens what level of support we have obviously in our draft we\u0027ve defined the solution which meets all of the requirements in the case of the competing draft we still do not have a way of indicating attribute usage the the computing graph defines application enablement which is a different thing there is no way to support incongruent apologies in this back to the discussion that we were just having we don\u0027t have a way in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:35",
    "text": "alternative proposal to say I don\u0027t want to use this set of advertisements from the legacy protocol the only thing I can do is advertise different values and then we get into the backwards compatibility and partial deployment in the case of our draft there are no backwards compatibility issues you can do partial deployments you have to do absolutely nothing on the legacy routers there\u0027s no configuration changes you do have to be careful on the new routers as to how you advertise things given examples of that but for the legacy routers is absolutely no changes required whatsoever in the case of the alternatives there is a solution proposed about using affinity on the legacy routers to filter out those advertisements that look like legacy advertisements with which you don\u0027t actually want the RCP te to use the other important point relates to BGP LS controller support part of the alternative solution is to get away from standard knits assignments for applications and to have this all defined at runtime via configuration which makes it very difficult indeed for bt pls to support this so with that I don\u0027t know how you want to run this yeah I think any questions you have on the specifics of this one you could do right now but we do have like 15 15 minutes or so scheduled another kind of orange I haven\u0027t already draft sorry cause that so I\u0027ll focus on use cases you have you proceed Sreenu schism or our are LGBT specific yeah so it\u0027s our apt only our LGBTQ with other application same values on LGBT also application different values so we have another use case on which is no te let\u0027s say I\u0027m currently using tea advertisement for edifice election mm-hmm how do I use your Papa Laura we and I keep using the G attribute just as is no in that case you\u0027d simply use the new advertisements there would be no need to advertise legacy yes but I don\u0027t have any issue currently I\u0027m going to be affected or not so so I\u0027m not worrying error Zippity mm-hmm so I don\u0027t have any issue with inconsistency between LF they advertisement or RC BT advertisement right and with this proposition do we have to be would I have any interrupts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:36",
    "text": "issue or new things to advertise in the deep AGP or can i still advertise the t\u0027s a regular or historic tea advertisement just like today so I think you have to you have to consider where you\u0027re starting from if you\u0027re start if you have a deployment for example where let\u0027s say year you fully deployed Sr you\u0027re using srte but because today we have no way to advertise link attributes other than the legacy all of your boxes are using legacy advertisements for SRTP yes okay so in this case if you have partial deployment if you upgrade party or network to support the new then you have two choices one is you can continue to use the legacy advertisements everywhere and you can set the legacy bit for the new applicant for the new boxes to say use the legacy advertisements and you only advertise legacy or you can sort of prepare for the your eventual migration to completely upgraded set of routers and you can advertise you can duplicate the advertisements with the new advertisements and the legacy you have you have both of those choices available to you Cisco\u0027s gonna make this really easy for him right by not making him said anything I mean I course I mean when you say you set the Elbit it\u0027s just because it\u0027s on new software version yeah I mean I don\u0027t think we want to start getting into you know how we define the CLI and no but it means especially from an operator standpoint is my network works why are you proposing something that\u0027s going to change the protocol in a way that might make my network not work yeah and I\u0027m saying if you\u0027re happy you can simply you can have use all the the legacy advertisements that you\u0027re using today and the only thing that\u0027ll happen is on the new boxes they will send out an advertisement that says please use legacy for srte and from your standpoint you should have to do nothing okay can you have a section in the draft to cover letter you scan thank you sure yep okay does that be where you want it I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:39",
    "text": "yes so um this is the draft that we first published in fall of last year and we presented in Seoul it deals with this one sort of very clear use case that that les has referred to but and it does so in a very straightforward manner by advertising the protocols that enable are enabled on a link so it aroud this is the same use case that we described in the draft and we\u0027ve described before but I\u0027ll review it again because it\u0027s been talked about quite a bit so the actual use case that that drove this was this proposal is where you have a centralized SR controller for doing traffic engineering and it\u0027s learning about the network either via the IGP or bt pls learning from the IGP and it needs to know the configured bandwidth on the network the maximum link bandwidth attribute so which is quite reasonable they\u0027re all shown there this advertisement from from Y says ok the link from why does he has 30 gigs of bandwidth now thank you if it\u0027s just an SR only network there\u0027s there\u0027s no issues if there\u0027s an RSVP only network there\u0027s no issues even if you have an RS and SR and an RSVP Network where they\u0027re congruent essentially SR and RSVP are all enabled on the same links there\u0027s there\u0027s no issue however if you have SR on some links and RSVP on other links then you can can run into a problem because if you also have RSVP running how does our SV existing RSVP ingress routers how do they figure out that a remote link has RSVP enabled on it and so this is a typical advertisement here for eius eius and this actually never got standardized for eius eius or OSPF pariahs different implementations have used different criteria for deciding so we we work together with Les and others to figure out what different implementations actually trigger on what they what sub tlvs they use to figure out do I decide to include this link in the SI SPF computation for computing our CP signal LSPs and so this is the set of implementations with their origins obscured and it turns out that you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:39",
    "text": "we weren\u0027t lucky here that people decided on different things and so you know you can\u0027t just say well you\u0027ve never defined but everyone did the same thing there is no de facto standard here so for some implementations the fact that that maximum link bandwidth is advertised is going to make the RSVP ingress router assume that RSVP is enabled on that link and in this particular case the service provider is transitioning their network from RSVP and they\u0027re moving it out of some parts of the network and transitioning that to segment routing so they\u0027ll have scenarios where they don\u0027t want an RSVP ingress router to try to signal an LSP across a link that doesn\u0027t actually have RSVP running on it you know it will fail the signaling and then they\u0027ll figure out and try something else but that extra signaling is is not good so we wanted a very direct indication of what protocols are enabled on that link in particular if RSVP is enabled on that link sort of clear up this this lack of a standard way of deciding that so there\u0027s a short-term workaround which is pretty straightforward which is using admin groups basically in this example you know suppose that RSVP is not enabled on all those links on the left and red you have an operator defined admin group in this case admin group for that means RSVP is a not enabled on this link you include that in your constraints for a CSP F which is straightforward to do and in all implementations that I know of and that will solve this problem in the short term in the long term straightforward te protocol sub TLB seems to make the most sense for this use case we specifically say we we introduced this new te protocol sub TLB which has a bit that says RSVP is not enabled or RSVP is enabled and then we don\u0027t have to worry about these different implementations so long term this seems like a reasonable approach to having a link advertised exactly what it is capable of supporting it can in this case it can support RSVP signaling to address this use case proposed encodings are pretty straightforward it\u0027s a new sub TLB inside of TLB 22 and the appropriate v6 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:42",
    "text": "and MTA multi-chip ology versions and it basically at this point defines two flags an RSVP flag and a segment routing flag now we\u0027ve gotten some feedback on this proposal about the precise interpretation of the segment routing protocol flag the concern that\u0027s been expressed is that the segment routing topology is basically congruent with the IGP topology that\u0027s important for doing running one SPF computation basically and having different topologies so we shouldn\u0027t have a flag that can be interpreted as modifying the segment routing topology because that creates ambiguity about what topology to run the SPF on so that seems like a valid concern we think there\u0027s a valid use case for this segment routing flag since it can be useful for an ingress router or a centralized application to know whether or not it should actually be expected to be able to forward traffic over over a link using labels distributed with sr so it\u0027s useful information so to address this concern we\u0027re proposing to describe this valid use case and also explicitly say that the presence or absence of this sr protocol flag doesn\u0027t affect the SR topology in particular it doesn\u0027t affect the shortest paths computed on the topology so with the original version of lesses te app draft I thought these two are actually in in conflict that is but the latest versions have made clear that he doesn\u0027t want to his draft does not the the advertisements don\u0027t say anything about enablement this is a clear so I don\u0027t think these two graphs actually conflict the following draft is in conflict with lesses and I think is a an alternative proposal but but this draft isn\u0027t in conflict with lesses I believe um so as a step forward we\u0027d like to publish the updated version with the text that addresses these concerns about the SR flag and request the chairs to start a working group adoption poll so that that\u0027s it on the te protocols bit basically observation who are you sorry Tory June so both the drafts right there playing with the topology and pruning or adding a link so you\u0027re really working trying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "to use them P attribute to come up with different topologies wouldn\u0027t this be treated as a multi topology instead of said no so this is RSVP you can prune the topology and I mean that\u0027s done all the time but different implementations so back in this in this version here so so in this slide here it\u0027s RSVP is on those those links that aren\u0027t read okay and RSVP supports that segment routing really the segment routing topology and the IGBT apology are are congruent so congruence and coloring you what we are talking about is multiplication attributes for a single link and how you music for your computation is a different matter but you are fundamentally looks like descript or conflict is really about how do we make support income grow and topologies but it is not a problem so there\u0027s two so this is a very specific use case okay so I have another presentation on that directly addresses the use case that that alessa\u0027s draft addresses okay and so I was trying to say is you don\u0027t want to solve but this incongruent apologies maybe there are different so we had some discussion back in Seoul about multi topology specifically but I mean when you say multi topology do you mean multi topology extensions so the two different topology for different application you\u0027re dealing with the way that multi topology extensions are actually implemented they\u0027re very specific to the a GPS that\u0027s a probably an even bigger hammer and worse hammer than the one being proposed by less in my opinions so Chris I\u0027m not speaking again right I think this is something we agree on what all of these drafts are talking about is a particular set of applications we use traffic engineering in particular we\u0027re not talking at all about modifying the base IGP topology and how the the standard IGP SPF has calculated that\u0027s not in scope for any of these drafts I hope we\u0027re in agreement on that yes we are Acey Linda and for 4sr if you\u0027re using the base algorithm the base it is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:43",
    "text": "IGP topology you know I mean I mean there\u0027s there\u0027s there\u0027s tweaks you can make but if you\u0027re just doing base segment routing the that the base algorithm includes everything that\u0027s tonight defeat apology correct correct how do you see that um so previous like the previous slide yeah so we just explained the problem in terms of income grew and topologies between two protocols per se why isn\u0027t this not a good enough solution Kurama I imagine practically speaking only either of these will exist in the long term in the network maybe that\u0027s not a point of consideration here we standardized good enough it depends on on the customer and you know there\u0027s a lot of extra configuration involved long term they would rather not have to worry about it it\u0027s you know things that are transitional often end up lasting for a long time and so kind of leaving this festering might not be such a such a good idea and and yeah they\u0027re there I think there are other use cases for this as well as I mentioned you know NSR and even seeing moving the slides on me so so I think it\u0027s a general general use fixes a problem that that has existed for a long time has been sort of not visible because RSVP just sort of worked in you know and all the topologies were congruent I think this is a clean solution that is worth pursuing so actually a a scenario is what you had a link that never had RSVP on it that but you wanted to get RSVP in some part of your network get a link that never had RSVP on it and you wanted to be able to advertise the bandwidth for that link that that\u0027s kind of a problem where this this solution is the workaround is sort of less desirable Chris final question from my side is it fair to say that you know your draft always assumes congruent apologies versus less draft allows to advertise different bandwidth for you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:44",
    "text": "know different protocols so this draft doesn\u0027t address what less is draft addresses it\u0027s the following draft that addresses the ability to advertise different values with this one you just try to clarify you know those lose RSVP semantics that we had over the past correct years this sort of de facto heuristic which didn\u0027t cause any problems it\u0027s starting to cause problems okay so fix it in a clean way and at the same time make it generic enough so that you know you could also imagine imagine adding LDP to that that would actually think about better to the bt pls extensions there so this is a general you know it focuses on the actual protocol that is enabled on the link what you can forward what protocols what label distribution protocol is you can use to forward traffic over that link so now moving on to the next slide or the next deck so this is the draft that addresses the same problem space that lesses Draft addresses but comes from it in a different way and so first off I want to say that the working group really needs to do some homework on the actual use cases because up to this point we\u0027re making arguments based on either undocumented use cases or very few use cases for for these for this capability so at this point you know the most concrete use case for the ability to advertise different values of the same link attribute in such a way that different applications can use those different values on the same link at this point the most concrete use case that I can identify from a real customer network is allowing applications to use different sets of S or LG\u0027s so we my co-authors and I adopted the you know took a look at les as draft and see some issues with the way that it is the encoding sort of require you to eventually deprecated the existing te "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:45",
    "text": "link attribute advertisements and we think that the use cases so far presented for this and identified for this really don\u0027t justify that approach so we came up with a different approach that doesn\u0027t require deprecating the existing advertisements and it fits in nicely with the existing framework so first of all I\u0027ll describe the te attribute set I also want to point out that this what we ended up publishing in this draft the encoding is is different from the encoding that I first proposed on the list so just keep that in mind if you make any observations about the encoding basically we the first encoding we proposed what would have required some duplicate advertisements this one doesn\u0027t duplicating advertisements so we actually treat te attributes and SR LG\u0027s using the same basic mechanism but but they\u0027re slightly different because of the way that SR LG\u0027s are kind of an additive attribute typically you want many SR LG is associated with a link and whereas the te attributes for a given T key attribute there is one value there\u0027s not multiple values so we adopted the approach that the existing the attributes advertised using the existing sub tlvs of TLB 22 they\u0027re all associated with the default attribute set so that\u0027s the TE attribute set with ID 0 you\u0027ll see that this is very similar to the kind of encoding used with multi topology routing its not multi follow G routing but multi apology routing had a nice feature that you effective even if you never deployed multi topology you were effectively using the default multi topology ID equals zero in the existing advertisements so we we adopt the same approach that basically your already existing routers are already advertising attributes in the default attribute set and then new we introduced a new link attribute set sub TLV also in TLB 22 it\u0027s used to associate any non-zero te attribute set IDs with the link attributes in the new link attribute sub sub TLP so the actual and coatings we borrowed heavily from for Miles\u0027s draft because there they\u0027re good encodings but we use them in a different manner so this link attribute sub sub TLD is basically the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:45",
    "text": "same used in less as draft but it is not put in in the sub TLV that he proposes but then instead a sub TLV that allows it to be scoped with this te attribute set ID so using these two forms of advertisements one is grandfathering in the existing advertisements to be attribute set zero or the default attribute set and then any new advertisements that need to be for where we need a different value each advertise - attribute gets associated with a te set ID and this is similar to - lesses list i\u0027ve actually in addition included the TE default metric we can discuss that one later depending on how we go forward but it seems like that\u0027s actually a reasonable one to include as well that if we\u0027re gonna allow scoping we might of these key attributes that\u0027s one that could be could have multiple definitions multiple values so this is showing how the tte attribute set gets used so basically this is your existing TLD 22 advertisement with also sub TLB three for admin group and sub Tod nine for maximum link bandwidth and so right here we\u0027re actually advertising no additional additional values we\u0027re not using any of the new advertisements but we\u0027re implicitly advertising all of the these attributes with te attribute set ID equals zero the default te attribute set so in this case all of these applications and these could be RSVP SR any application RSVP fast reroute SRT LFA or sr centralized control there they\u0027re all able to use these existing advertisements so only in the case where we need a value for an attribute that is where an app one application needs to use a value for an attribute that\u0027s different from these default values do we employ the new encoding so we have this link attribute set sub TLV which carries the T attribute set ID of 1 and then it we put in this extra value of the maximum link bandwidth which is this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:45",
    "text": "case is 22 so in this case applications X\u0026Y suppose we want them to use the default attribute sets they do that without any modification application Z on the other hand it will use the default set for anything that doesn\u0027t appear in the non default advertisements so so we feel like this approach really avoids deprecating the existing advertisements it puts the sort of complexity on the you know the networks that need this advanced functionality ok they have to worry about these new and codings but take for example Bruno\u0027s question about his use case it continues to function exactly as it is even as he upgrades the software he never needs to worry about this new encoding because he never needs to deploy the new encoding he can eventually if he wants to but his existing applications will still work so the the SR LG sets work similarly but they have a slightly different semantics because of the nature of SR LG\u0027s you typically take a union of all the SR LG\u0027s on a link you want to have you know an arbitrary number of SR LG\u0027s or a list or set basically and so again we use the approach that the existing TLB 1:38 advertisements are in the default SR LG set s r LG set ID equals zero the SR LG sets scoped SR LG t lv that\u0027s only allowed to advertise non zero values of the SR LG set similar to mt ID and that\u0027s how we you know associate how we advertise sr LG\u0027s with non zero values so similarly existing applications can be grandfathered into this framework there they start out once we approve this this approach or a similar approach they start out you know already advertising SR LG set ID equals zero advertisements when we need to for an application or a network that needs a different value of semester LG\u0027s for the same link then we use this new advertisement now the semantics for this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:45",
    "text": "is that by default if you are using for the SR LG\u0027s we have no mechanism to sort of override a default SR LG advertisement so we basically just say okay if you want the when you use an SR LG set if you say okay I\u0027m going to use SR LG set one you don\u0027t include by default SR LG set 0 because you\u0027d end up there\u0027s no way to cancel out the existing SR LG\u0027s in the default SR LG set but that seems like a reasonable sort of compromise given the semantics of SR LG\u0027s so this is a the most concrete use case for this kind of scoping that that I have seen so far for scoping of any of these link properties either T attributes or SR LG\u0027s I find this one the one that\u0027s that\u0027s most relevant to the actual problems that people face now when you work through this example using this encoding it sort of works naturally so in networks that deploy lots of SR LG\u0027s it\u0027s quite natural to have some sort of classes groupings of srl cheese and one example of groupings is that you have links you know IP router to router links that correspond underlying they have either an intra-city fiber or they can also have intercity fiber and also say intercontinental fiber underneath depending on you know which of those fails determines what sr lg\u0027s they belong to and so it\u0027s natural to take this grouping of SR LG\u0027s and assign them to the srl or assign s or LG set IDs to them and advertise them so that you can then do you sort of take advantage of this natural grouping of the these classes of S or LG\u0027s so in this case we want application X to take into account all three types of SR LG\u0027s while application why should only take into account intercity and intercontinental sr LG\u0027s so they get advertised using the sets jumble oh one two and three and the application takes the union of one two and three for application x and y just takes the union of two three as the SR LG\u0027s that it\u0027s going to consider as constraints and use use them however it will when you want to add another application applications II in this case which is only supposed to take "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:45",
    "text": "into account intercity and intercity SR LG\u0027s it you know you don\u0027t need to touch the the routers that are advertising these s or LG\u0027s it\u0027s already advertising the appropriate information and this is especially the case when you have a centralized te controller where you know you don\u0027t even suppose E is a central controller you never touch the network at all in order to deploy this new application so we think this is an improvement on about four okay so draft Ginsberg proposes to eventually deprecated the existing te link attributes in TLB twenty-two the use cases presented so far I don\u0027t think justify doing that better to use an approach that has built in backwards compatibility I think the proposed encodings limit the attributes to particular applications and I think that approach actually restricts application development it\u0027s better for routers to advertise properties and applications decide how to use those properties and it\u0027s also not clear what the definition of each of the standard applications should be I\u0027m going to jump to that one because I haven\u0027t really addressed it so at this point we actually have eight seven or eight applications that are using these T attributes and s or LG\u0027s we have distributed RSVP traffic engineering centralized RSVP traffic engineering RSVP based fast reroute at the PLR RSVP base just disjoint paths from the ingress router LDP based fast reroute centralized SR based traffic engineering and s are based fast reroute at a PLR or TI LFA I think these are all different which are using these so in this case are we going to define a standard application for each of these and what about if we have two centralized SR based traffic engineering applications which one of these is the the standard centralized SR based traffic engineering application so I\u0027ll leave it there and have the discussion how do you want to handle the I think if let\u0027s do you mean I don\u0027t know are there going to be people that no one\u0027s lining up yet so maybe there\u0027s going to be no discussion we\u0027re just a small one but yeah like the minute people we need glasses we can address questions from the audience I have a I have a sort of clarifying question in that you know I just reread things today and they just kept a cup hitting and so this seems like uh I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:46",
    "text": "understand it\u0027s more than just a simple and caps TLB format you know encapsulated we\u0027re in an encapsulation encoding thank you it\u0027s a you know it seems like an encoding difference what the problems are kind of solved the same the solutions are very similar and it\u0027s just how do you how do you encode that solution I see like there\u0027s a more like you\u0027re addressing the defining the applications are not the stuff I was talking to less earlier about having the default be more non-disruptive it\u0027s just like these things I\u0027m looking to get less as a draft that is working group adoption call right and he\u0027s correct even those numbers weren\u0027t that the rough consensus is generally was less traffic I think Chris has some good points I\u0027m wondering if we can move forward with adopting the draft but not abandoning the ideas because at that point it ceases to be less as draft right and it becomes is ice working groups draft and we\u0027re allowed to do whatever we want with it as working right so it\u0027s not if I\u0027m not crushing any ideas here and so what am i curious things are Chris if we were to follow that path do you think that you get your ideas could still be adopted into his rap if les wasn\u0027t you know if if people if he wasn\u0027t able to shut you down by saying we don\u0027t want your idea is there anything technically in his draft that a book that keeps these ideas from being put into it I think that enable meant what does enable with me I wouldn\u0027t want to come back to oh well you know these are the requirements that the working group adopted because even those requirements I think are are pretty pretty rough so if if this is a starting point for working group work on it I\u0027m okay with that but if we get down to be party agreed on XY and Z and right well so working group adoption is not working for black all right yeah and that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of the point I\u0027m trying to get across is because we want to move this forward and I feel like you guys have worked together and you come to a head on certain points and maybe the working group can work through those so is that part of this well because those two I think I would like to agree on that that moving forward as well because these are as I see it now these are not conflicting they saw two separate causes well let\u0027s if I mean I think everyone else is gonna come on something else but less do you have anything quick to say like yes I\u0027m buying no I\u0027d like to talk about that more so there there are two significant issues to me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:47",
    "text": "in terms of what the two drafts provide solutions for one issue is there\u0027s there\u0027s no way yes as far as I can tell and I\u0027ve read your draft there\u0027s no way to say I have legacy advertisements on a given link and I do not want a new application I don\u0027t care whether it\u0027s standard or user defined or whatever I don\u0027t want a user application to use these you don\u0027t have a way to do that the second issue which I think is far more important actually and it hasn\u0027t I don\u0027t think that either presentation has at the time to make this as clear perhaps as as we could have is with Chris\u0027s proposal you do not have any standard dis assignments so all of your mapping between a given application and the value whether it\u0027s a bit value or whether it\u0027s a scalar value is done by dynamic configuration and if you do this then I don\u0027t know how you pass this information via bgp LS to a controller so a controller can understand that these values that were advertised there are being used by application a and these values are being used by application B those are the two most significant issues for me all right so my question was actually about the te protocols draft that my first presentation I I proposed working group adoption of the te protocols draft because it does not seem in conflict with your draft do you agree with that you\u0027re not I dunno I think it\u0027s superfluous okay if you use our draft you don\u0027t need the other draft provides no value so I mean given that response I have to say that that the discussion you had earlier about enablement is going to come back in these discussions yeah continuously and I do think that there is overlap I do think that lets me cover both cases so the the current text does not say that any fact it seems to say that it doesn\u0027t yeah well one place it says it does and then it says it doesn\u0027t so so so I\u0027m thinking it from the from the trying to move forward case of you know once it\u0027s out of authors hands and into working groups hands we can start making changes and make things clarified and if one of the things is we do want to cover enablement or you don\u0027t want to cover the angle and if we don\u0027t we decide not to cover an enablement and you want to draft that does cover that then we can bring that into if you want to just glued it specifically from the other yeah you know I okay well we\u0027ll discuss we\u0027ll discuss it so anything this is also open to everybody\u0027s comments as well like how to move forward Tony Tony P juniper like Chris uh frankly looking at the stuff I\u0027ll put them into a room give them pizza and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:48",
    "text": "start to slowly suck out oxygen until they agree on a common set of requirements we thought we did the last time but the oxygen part well so you didn\u0027t do it well enough I think adopting one draft without in the requirements being met where everybody agrees on you just you just have it no a different set of conflict so I would force them to come with a little requirements they agree on and if they disagree set of requirements which are orthogonal and then solve it with two drugs otherwise we\u0027ll just direct the stuff on it will become more and more of a festering thing suggestion huh nice gorilla Artie break one of those I would say habits that you get used to for working to along with Yakov was asking first can it be done using existing protocols right and it looks to me both of you you\u0027re trying to reinvent multi topology routing albeit in a te context right so may I ask you one thing in the te topology registry we have probably 99% unutilized as per today is IANA table so do you think it would be possible to allocate you know for Chris\u0027s seven different applications or for srte to carve out a code point from that topology area because then everything is clear all the semantics are there we don\u0027t really need sub sub tlvs we have a perfectly way to encode already being defined so are you clarification are you suggesting that for example for bandwidth that we have in different code boy it\u0027s for bandwidth no I\u0027m just saying whatever you want to advertise in RSVP that is today you know the legacy topology zero but grab something else a new topology ID for SR TV right so I don\u0027t see how that proposal differs functionally from either of our proposals we\u0027re putting something in front of the advertisements that says that scopes those advertisements to one or more applications right okay that seems to me what you\u0027re asking for I think we\u0027re both doing that right and I\u0027m asking why can it be done you see existing protocols why do every reinvent a new protocol why do we have to go down the business of sub sub kyoki\u0027s by by protocol you mean TLB right now III just gonna comment if you go down the multi topologies I mean granted we\u0027re gonna have some differences in coding in OSPF we\u0027re not gonna go that way I mean we don\u0027t have it implemented so we are not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:51",
    "text": "going to just to support multiple applications so that would mean divergence I\u0027m speaking as where we are today that sounded like a chair of speak to me there\u0027s there\u0027s very little adoption of multi topology and OSPF and it\u0027s only for OSPF v2 so Tony Peking so I emphasize Honus point I saw the same discussion on v6 migration on source destination routing every time we do in two years around and at the end basically empty has been used so take it as a data point I\u0027m not pushing for it right but Honus has a point over many many years okay so I don\u0027t I feel like we resolved this conflict but I do like Tony peas idea that let\u0027s make sure we\u0027re working the requirements are very clear I don\u0027t want a requirements document we can just do it on the list and we\u0027ll make sure that we\u0027re trying to solve the same problems and if we are I think we then we can put it in the ground without text to just go to but are we close we don\u0027t need so we we have very few actual use cases for this well use cases are about transitioning document I\u0027m sorry this is not accurate if you read the draft the draft specifies what is trying to achieve and it gives clear examples of why it\u0027s needed okay so use cases and requirements are slightly different use cases are examples of the requirements and I think Tony P\u0027s point was we needed to find the requirements that\u0027s like asking what problem are we trying to solve yeah and I and again volunteered to edit a document on use cases and requirements whatever we want that got shut down by you know basically an argument from less on the list without any real response to that so I still think that\u0027s the right approach you know people I\u0027m sure less will claim that I\u0027m just trying to slow this down but this is going to go nowhere without actual use cases so we have a real "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:52",
    "text": "problem today we have rsvp-te and srte and they are in some cases deployed in the same network and we have no way to separate the advertisements for application this is not a theory this is not something that\u0027s happening in the future this problem exists today I would like you to document those use cases very specifically you haven\u0027t you never yes correct correct I am ok so go ahead Ron Bonica Juniper Networks maybe a good idea would be to have a very brief interim meeting where we get just the use cases right get them documented not so much in an internet draft but in some yeah some emailed by the guy by you guys who are chairing the meeting and then once we know the use cases in the requirements really specifically and we might have the solution conversation well yeah around an interim meeting is okay so yeah I\u0027m not helping in progressing we\u0027re just trying to answer last question Hannah\u0027s mentioned multi topology which does allow to support different advertisement for a given topology there is no startup core point for that but I could under a to using multi topology so there is thought-out way to do it already so I think I think there\u0027s a there\u0027s a big difference between stating an idea and looking at what the current encoding actually supports and I don\u0027t think what Hannes is proposing is fundamentally different from what either of our drafts proposed you can define different bits you can define a different code bikini line a different hierarchy there is an existing build are there are under the Old West what Hannes is asking for as I understand it is I want a context and then code points both of our drafts provide that we got a honestest proposal and my proposal have built-in backwards compatibility this proposal deprecates proposes to eventually deprecated the existing advertisements I don\u0027t want us to attempt but that\u0027s absolutely inaccurate we have it is possible to deprecate the existing phone points we have it is not a fundamental part of the I\u0027ve literally eaten out that\u0027s all the slop and everything else including the time of Ross\u0027s presentation that we recovered we\u0027re gonna do reverse and then we\u0027re gonna do fine leaf and I\u0027m putting flexi at the end because it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:52",
    "text": "being presented in another NC camp so in case we run out of time it still will be presenting something so I\u0027ll try to be quick yet eleven minutes oh okay so I\u0027m Michael Abramson I\u0027m here because naming and Shane are not here so I\u0027m presenting this this is from distraught this or any originally about I think was initiative by the email I sent in 2010 so it\u0027s been going on for a while so this is the working group draft version six it updates based on feedback and there\u0027s some use cases added you can read here the remove this bit link overload link cap attribute and so on and yeah here it was first presented in as I then if a draft him ITF 79 in Beijing and this is November 2010 so the use cases are note and link isolation so that you can remove yourself from a LAN and everybody else don\u0027t can still use it as before and it\u0027s also but like when there is work going on on a line card and you know when do you send you of the ports on on that line card you don\u0027t want incoming traffic or outgoing traffic selective EMP can be used for AGPL the pieces sync when before is the ice is you can tell them okay I don\u0027t don\u0027t want any traffic on this link until held a peaceful is synchronized dan yeah generally you can influence the the incoming traffic on on that way so there is a new TLB here now I\u0027m gonna be you know deep into the details that I know well enough so I\u0027ll just leave them up here for everybody who knows this better than I do and it applies to multi to Paulo geez you can configure this locally to overwrite the the signal from neighbor this is work so both on land Sun which point support of T metric and subtly for C SPF calculation and on the land that dis note is it\u0027s doing the the worker for changing the metric from the pseudonym and on point point you just tell the other guy to add to the already existing mature um there is work here about OSPF and I\u0027m not a no SPFs for expert I took the AC yesterday to understand but it was doing here but it has similar there\u0027s part of the sole solution spacer that it\u0027s being done in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:54",
    "text": "those gaps well and as far as I know we did this is quite stable we have just a lot of you know comments and so on and we requested requesting plastified I don\u0027t know if you covered this in the use cases but the one that Peter Lawford recently came up with he came up with a different solution and the reverse metric actually solved it which was if you\u0027re getting a lot if you\u0027re getting a crappy signal on your fiber right on your end you know that it\u0027s bad so you can advertise the metric the up you know that the fact that it shouldn\u0027t come for it so there\u0027s the whole thing about if if you are close to your like prefect limit we\u0027re going to start getting bit errors you can say okay when this happens I want the metric to be increased so that there is no and so you increase the metric you\u0027re announcing and you\u0027re telling another guy to do that as well and so you can set like trade optical triggering sale signals if your and me you can have error counters trigger this and so on then did this is so yeah the main the main point is there\u0027s no way in the protocol to do that right now right just say that I\u0027ve got I\u0027ve got a perfect signaling to out to my neighbor but I\u0027m getting crap from him so this this addresses that to him yep so I was just gonna move to the it has been around for a while just a get up general feeling of the room does anybody object to this going into last call do we think we have more work to do on this AC Wyndham this is just a question for that last use case can you talk to the reasons you would use this as opposed to have automatically taking the link out of your out of service odd not out of service the audio so did so basically this is in my reload 2010 email it\u0027s like I have bit errors on my link I don\u0027t want to use it right now and but it\u0027s not bad enough that I never want to use it and if my redundancy goes down my 0.1% packet loss is a lot better than 100% say yes but but I\u0027m gonna use it I want to use it in an emergency I want to use it but well in Russian yeah but you\u0027re also saying take it out of service right this is addressing only one direction right because I mean take it completely off yeah but but I\u0027m saying the case Peters interested in which is the interesting case is that you have two fibers right there unidirectional and you\u0027ve got you\u0027ve got bi-directional concavity but you might only have crap on one direction right so I don\u0027t want to take the link out of service because it works perfectly fine that way okay and it\u0027s bad this way yes so I want to keep using this okay so I but the question again was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:55",
    "text": "does anybody object to to last click going to last call this and that no one raises their hand so do people think it\u0027s a good idea okay we go not as energetic as the last time you didn\u0027t ask everyone thinks it\u0027s a bad idea as well yeah what yeah I so I was asking if people thought it was a okay to take this last call yeah okay I asked him different ways I think it\u0027s okay to take it the last call well you know I guess we have to ask on the list again that\u0027s all right I just start the last call right yeah okay okay so we\u0027ll do that up all right next up thank you so the next up is finally no not not this one yet I\u0027m sorry but unless you come next because you\u0027re gonna present in C camp and if we run out of time it still gets presented right yeah I know - hasn\u0027t caught up with what I was juggling sir communicate yeah I\u0027m not communicating okay this is what I\u0027m going to cover so the draft was first published in November of 2015 we introduced a new version in March which introduced the leaf set advertisement to to allow leaf nodes to direct traffic away from the spine notes from a particular spy node when you don\u0027t have full connectivity you\u0027ll see more a clear example of that later in the presentation we published a new version in June borrowing some ideas from Russ\u0027s fabric path we included a tier level so that nodes could automatically detect what tier they\u0027re at at least in most cases and we also made the reduced flooding an option that if you want to deploy it without that you have a way of indicating that so this is what the new TLV in hollows looks like and we introduced the tier "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:57",
    "text": "portion of this to indicate so that a node can indicate what tier it\u0027s operating in in the topology and there\u0027s a bit there\u0027s a chi bit to indicate whether that value is valid or not so while you\u0027re still discovering what tier you\u0027re at people can know that you currently don\u0027t know what tier you\u0027re at the the lines in blue are sent by the leaf nodes so a leaf node will indicate with the bit that I am a leaf node and it will it also can optionally indicate for an east-west path that it can serve as a backup default gateway again that\u0027s optional and the green is sent by the spine nodes so as my node can indicate that I can be used as a default gateway we introduced the use of a circuit scope del SP ha RFC 7356 this is sent in both directions potentially the spine node send it I can look this way when the spine notes ended they advertised the list of the system IDs of all the leaf nodes to which they currently have connectivity and the leaf nodes can send use the CSL LSP to send a request this is used by default the leaf nodes will use any spy node that it wants as a default gateway but if you have a spine node that loses connected partial connectivity to some of the leaf nodes then we want a way for the the leaf node to be able to get reach ability first of all to know which spine nodes have full connectivity and which ones do not and also potentially to get specific reach ability information so that it knows which spine oh it may need to use for a particular destination when the default is not viable ok the extension basics so we start out with 2 layers at the aggregation layer we\u0027re just doing normal is is normal flooding normal exchange of PDUs the leaf node will send a hello to the spine and it will indicate that it\u0027s at tier 0 and it\u0027ll set the the bit that says on the leaf node it will flood its own LSPs to the spine and optionally you can use a circuit scoped LSP to send an info request to the spine note the spines "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "will include an indication in their hellos that G you can use me as the fault but they will not flood LSPs to the leaf nodes by default there\u0027s a way to turn that off and they can use the circuit scope del SB to indicate here\u0027s the set of leaf nodes to which I currently have connectivity the leaf nodes will then only use default route to the spines to forward traffic and you have routing above the the aggregation layer as normal and okay sorry I didn\u0027t do the animation so I don\u0027t know where it stops so here\u0027s an example of what happens when in a link and or node goes down and you have no east-west links so again we\u0027re flooding normal is is between at the upper tiers and the leaf nodes are indicating that they are at tier zero they send their own LS B\u0027s to the spine but nothing else so we have a link failure with because we have s for what happens to this yes but I didn\u0027t do these so oh ok so we have a default route either via s3 or s4 and okay so s4 has lost connectivity to l5 and l6 and because we have an exchange from the spy nodes that says these are the leaf nodes that I like currently reach the leaf nodes detect that there\u0027s an inconsistency but not all the spine nodes have the same set of connectivity and so they can end up rerouting traffic to since s4 no longer can reach l6 al4 can direct traffic via s3 for the destinations that are reachable via l6 yes here\u0027s where the link goes down thank you sorry yeah yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:01",
    "text": "okay anyways the general idea here and I apologize for the confusion here is that we\u0027ve introduced a way to since we\u0027ve reduced the flooding the leaf nodes no longer have the full link state database so by default they just go to any spine node for any destination they want to reach but in those cases where you don\u0027t have full connectivity rather than flood the entire LSP database to the leaves to cover that case we provide selective advertisements so that the leaf nodes can know okay this by node can\u0027t reach the set of destinations I can go buy another spine own but we only have to send the information that is not available on on the all of the spine notes so through [Music] so what are we trying to achieve here we\u0027re trying to achieve extensions that are specific to datacenter requirements flooding is the big issue there because one topology change can literally turn into hundreds if not thousands of duplicate LSP updates we\u0027re doing this with the well-known IGP so we\u0027re not requiring an Additional Protocol and we have available to us all of the existing features that are available in the protocol and it\u0027s possible to also do traffic engineering if that\u0027s required we\u0027ve now introduced in the latest version of the draft Auto tear discovery this is again from the open fabric draft we incorporated this this helps with Auto configuration so that you do not have to actually go into each node and configure what what tier they\u0027re at Russ has some additional extensions the only thing we\u0027ve put in here is you have to configure the leaf nodes and say you\u0027re a leaf node but all the nodes that above the leaf nodes can figure out what tier they\u0027re at basically by using Russell\u0027s original idea of figuring out how many hops away they are from the leaf nodes yeah you could say that but with with his permission yeah so we do have we have nine minutes left for the flexi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:08",
    "text": "hello everyone this graph is about a it\u0027s about fishing for facts Ethernet okay so first of all this have a quick review yeah okay oh yeah yeah yeah flex is really short flexi it\u0027s a technology that can support a variety of you know it right now you can either migrate that may not may or may not correspond to you the same fair rate this is achieved by detecting the you know even your fire rate and mac rate so flexi has three major features first one is pounding just like lack multiple interfaces can be bounded into a single pipe to form or nurture and foster interface is to provide a mobile ways and this is how flexi support McCreight quick than faded great and the sub rating and channelization are two technologies that can be used to support my crate listen physic great but they are the reason to address different use cases flexi also introduced a concept of slot based on our calendar it can be an effective and the israel ethernet floor can be dispatched to chris pound snot and xcode currently only some each salt has a quantity of 5g but based upon more granite granite granularities in in the future exam twenty five gigabit granularity is considered in of\u0027 incretin implementation agreement version 2 so here are some terms about this flexi the first one is flexi interface it\u0027s a boundary interface that is can consist of 1 to 254 1 gigabit interfaces and flex interface can be generalized into molecules of interfaces and a link that connect to text interface is called text link yeah ok so a links that connect to taxi sub interface is called "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:09",
    "text": "flexi sub-link mark would it be a good analogy to say that what you\u0027ve done is you\u0027ve taken legs plus the number of other proprietary layer 2 features and you\u0027re attempting to standardize them with flexi briefer net like this channelization a lot of people do this in proprietary ways right now right yeah maybe yeah so there is the non proprietary race it\u0027s I have a cheap omni pond okay you\u0027ve got about five minutes left I don\u0027t know it\u0027s a just kiss for taxi it can be you can use text you to do interface on language Network slicing for example can actually link can be sliced into multiple sub links a trunk and the city of taxi links can be allocated to a user or service to form arm slice network that have dedicated resources and the earth feeds off a user or service can be established over those link and for example through the RCP our CPP signaling or by always similarly with this measure we can provide interface a link based a level isolation it\u0027s better than no traditional example TV based a solution so actually but I\u0027d prefer the advertisement actually there to type of limbs first one flexi link and uh and other one is like three siblings from four flex healing it\u0027s it\u0027s same like it\u0027s just like a to advertise our normal healing but we need to introduce more link attributes for example first one is great granularity and and the second ones how many available slot attending can support this information can be used by you know keep on that path we\u0027re taking entity to computer path and other gaits relevant fun ways to PHP and so that affects his sibling that actually there are two options for advertisement first one or something can be advertiser as an individual link so there\u0027s no that no requirement to do something to do a parking extension but with this matter it required to configure IP address and to running I\u0027d be particle or a link if this is sometimes considered not scalable because there may be a lot of saplings per flex CD so another way to do faxes sapling advertisement used to to advertise saplings as a members link of taxi link so with this way we don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:09",
    "text": "need to configure the IP address and and running protocol over the link so here\u0027s a example how this kind of information can be advertised to use the based on and investing a tier VIII cherries the left and the left side is a sub theory that is used to describe switching capability of an interface so for the factory we just different new subtly to describe flexing interface to include information as a set before you know previous sites granularities and the available time starts and this camp this information can be used by to compute our PRT thoughts and yes and next step so we need actually the extension is under consideration there may be many other options for example this one maybe someone maybe think it is not maybe it\u0027s not it\u0027s - it\u0027s not a fails let me not you we know is not useful if you can defend a compact encoding to to carry its kind of information and also we have word to some enhancement and optimization to how to advertise to us flexi sibling example to support a similar thing oh and the rock Saxon and yeah the trap - well actually there are some requirement from the ID and SECAM cheers they ask me just print on the track here and also let simply grab maybe alarm to that work and grow okay even a marriage so my first comment you already mentioned it is to discuss gmpls extensions within jim penetrated groups explicitly tease on or see camp my other feedback which could have been waited further presentation but since you there I\u0027m raising this right now the is CD in GPRS is men mainly to identify the technology layer you switching so as to identify the type of label you are going to use to create your speeds which is not this use case you\u0027re trying to address here so clearly there is a strong mismatch between the you proposed from the protocol perspective with respect to the program you trying to rest so clearly you need to split them there may be some work related to your use case some flexi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:10",
    "text": "within Jim P lash which I think it\u0027s already tackled somewhere else also but I don\u0027t see them clearly matching their yeah true I think yes it\u0027s much general solution movies need to try to tie this kind of ignition not just for you know to design for switching or something like that right okay I think we\u0027re out of time so thanks everybody and keep your ears peeled for that exciting interim meeting we\u0027re going to have and otherwise we\u0027ll see you as another villain just by nailing this that\u0027s right you "
  }
]