[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "welcome back to tease this is our second of two sessions we heard that there\u0027s some people were having problems getting on to etherpad I was able to get in but I\u0027m getting in through a VPN I don\u0027t know if that hell that helped or not but other people are saying that they couldn\u0027t get in but please to try to join and help us out with the minutes as we do in every start of every session we show our note well and please remember that anything you say during the session at the mic is part of our record our permanent record and is considered a contribution to the IETF all contributions to the ITF are governed by PCP 79 you can go read that and also if you\u0027re interested in in looking at learning more about the policy though the URL at the bottom of the page as before as always we are streaming audio video we\u0027re also recording the video and we published after the meeting when you when you come to the mic please speaks speak your name and we just had a conversation with chairs and someone pointed out too that there is no need to state your affiliation just your name for agenda we\u0027re gonna start out it\u0027s funny this froze there this last time hopefully the screen will catch up we\u0027re gonna start out with taking a few more minutes on the last agenda item from our previous session well apparently our laptop is having the same problem slides that did last time okay no hat there for a second I should let Kevon Drive this time right so Sergio\u0027s here is going to talk about the the path computation yeah my last computation the second set the rest of the second session we\u0027re gonna just steal five minutes from different presenters and we\u0027re actually thinking some of these will go faster anyway the other thing is is we have moved the enhanced VPN earlier in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "slot that\u0027s it for the intro LaVon I guess okay which slide would you like to use one so I don\u0027t know if you want to cue up those people who are talking when we broke before lunch yes we could you are still here that\u0027s good see who did not come back from lunch yep which slide would you like so we have a discussion was it over he reminded me about discussion we had before so it\u0027s it\u0027s basically my fault but the difference is that if you configure a tunnel in pre-computation mode and even if you specify that timeout for how long you keep the state the server can remove the state after the time after the timeout but the configuration was still supposed to be in the intended configuration data store and it needs to be explicitly removed well if you do it while RPC this is not a problem so the authors think this is an important difference and it can relief certain paints from the client so I have no objection my question is in the seconds next slide I\u0027m drove yeah so coming to this I I\u0027m little surprised by why you want to mandate that this RPC should only be used in a variety a Heike of controller fashion to be RPC is just an RPC and we should allow it to be used by whoever who wants to invoke the RPC and that should be fine so why and especially also from the model point of view I think the the change that alleyway was asking to allow the same RPC also to be used in a peer-to-peer fashion was a small change but did not require a big change in your model so why should be mandate like what\u0027s the main reason that you wanna feel that no this document should not satisfy the need of anybody who wants to use your RPC in a B RPC like fashion is not mandatory assumption in fact this is the the point of the discussion so the question for the working group that read the drafts we suppose that we can use that also in case of independent of the architecture that use it the question that is coming in the next slide the working group if they think like the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "working group think that is needed to have some modification on the young to cope also with aspect or not and well and if it is needed to have a specific description of the use cases or just say independently of the architecture this RPC is used to make a request in the panel of the fact that is a sequential slide distributed architecture erotic this is a next life exactly this is the is the question that we want to highlight to the working group drop again my suggestion is I think it should be it\u0027s a very small change though I I like a CT and I prefer that approach but I we should not done that this RPC should only be used in a one approach if there is a comment coming in the mailing list and somebody wants to use your yang model in a different way and it\u0027s a small change I think we should allow it there has been some suggestion to use flag to to say yes this is distributed or your article nashwa we are not sure that this is needed we can discuss further anyway our our position would be that the RPC should be used independent of the of the architect this is the point and the picture that is in the English life before strike to the peaked anyway how we can cut also with the representation of me SC and PN C typically in the capacity and contest let\u0027s just to be clear of the take away you\u0027re planning to support both hierarchal and and non-hierarchical it\u0027s the only equip the only question right now is whether you need an explicit flag or some explicit indication of that and you\u0027re not good right and you\u0027re not convinced that it\u0027s even necessary that the current can do both yeah okay great thank you next day this one okay so then we have an issue about the request that our computation is able to support the protection part the case can be or that you have already a path and you want to set up a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:23",
    "text": "protected part or you have not tunnel and started from zero you have protecting a protected part computed well we have we have two possible turnin t\u0027v in the young model one alternated with a single request to compute working and protecting but related to a single tunnel or to have two requests to compute a working path and the other that is dealing with protecting part of and with association between the two requests within the same RPC this is more or less the approach that is also if I\u0027m not wrong easy in the in the episode contest so you have no directly path computation for both but you need was achieved the two computed paths well we next slide we just compose a table with trans and cons from our understanding okay we can go through I don\u0027t want to commit and leave the comments to the working group basically the question that is putting the red and the bottle is general question if we it is it is possible that any way the path computation can be used without the eternal model with another connection and a model and so our PC is not mandate to have specific semantics that is related to the tunnel mode this is basically the question on the bottom and this is a some comparison of the two possibility to modify young model we color with the same color the dual possibilities of for example in case of pros on the single tunnel request you have implicit support of the other Association young proposal in the tunnel model light be directional and and instead in case of tour request you need to define specific mekinese but on the other side they the fact that were to Pat request is basically following what is the structure of the path with the Pat complication without imposing any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:23",
    "text": "heavy modification hazzah instead is the case in yellow in the Casa in case you follow the option one so this is a just a summary table I complete and then I live complete before we leave that did you have a recommendation there I well we have opinion personal opinion but well sure but but you\u0027re allowed to have an opinion so the authors who are working on it do you have a recommendation to the working group or do you think it\u0027s a you know from your standpoint a coin toss or or the author split you know that\u0027s that\u0027s useful information so you\u0027re doing that that\u0027s great that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s useful information thank you to me it seems like a no-brainer but you know obvious one person also yeah so yes here we summarize the situation of the open issue we have the our github that summarize all the aspect and tracking Yavin issue we have closed three open issues since the bangbang god meeting we have audio on eight one eight the three three specific for path computation three are related also for other for tunnel model and the last two one is Victoria so is a review terminology we receive a comment from the mailing list and the other is a yes isn\u0027t any issue that we need to fix in the text to put an example of the young model as soon as the model is completely stable and then we want to add a specific example to depict out who\u0027s his work so we acknowledge some people that help us our work and a part color Francesca that help us technically with there are also some help from the discussion both for the changing that we made in the young model for the past eight and also for the discussion we thanks Olivier you are Adrian and yang to help the discussion about this topic regarding hierarchical aspect or distributed one in the contest of Pat computation next step so obviously we we want to resolve the open "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:25",
    "text": "issue and we have a weekly cooperation with tunnel model and topology model Otto\u0027s and we need to provide guidance for technology specific of temptation for tunnel fruity and tunnel and w.zahn in the contest in the summers also flexible the tunnel autos well we have in our mind it is not written here what a possibility not for the next meeting but for the week after what will the position as Law Review so that all right so that would be Singapore one thing you didn\u0027t talk about is resolution of issues raised at the last meeting that were not discussed on list the biggest one I remember as we had a long discussion and related to policy and providing all all objects well did that get resolved I didn\u0027t see it in the document but I really plan I may have missed it yes we have we have discussed in the Middle East and the open issue that has been so and then the the three one that is remain one is the older one related maybe you remember that about that the attributes that is used in all the attitude that is used to make the request in the tunnel model that it is not so mandatory in the context of that computation there as well that was the discussion there was this difference of opinion there yes we have solved the issue with a specific grouping for complication that is the basic one for the possible petition request so the it sounds like the resolution of the discussion from Bangkok is that you think there\u0027s agreement to go with what was in the document which is only provide a partial list of attributes not all attributes okay well be good to see their response from the floor I may have distracted Igor cuz I\u0027ve given him a second topic to talk about okay so basically this open issue we discuss it there was several exchanges I personally do not like the option of having separate requests leaning together mainly because not only have to link them but you also have basically describe relationships how this result in pass would be related like for example what kind of juice goodness you requires whether it\u0027s a sorrel Gigi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:25",
    "text": "goodness or integer goodness what happens if as a desired assuredness is a whale is not available but a lesson is version is this one thing but the other thing is you will duplicate quite a few of quite quite a few parameters like there\u0027s common source destination there is a bandwidth requirements common affinities exclusions things like that okay so if you just provide a single request then this is all taken care of and finally obviously there are a lot of algorithms that actually compute paths simultaneously and not you know you can solve that but it\u0027s a bit awkward rather than to have it in a single request about the outer woods that is repeated twice for to have a double request we put in the table it is listed there can we go back to that slide this is row which one the way the comparison between tunnel request and two path requests I have a different opinion from Igor a little bit spacely from the sense that I want to retain two path requests because every time you ask for disjoint that doesn\u0027t mean that they are going to be part of the same tunnel so if you remove that that you are taking away very important feature that you currently provide that even two unrelated parts can be diverse from each other and I want that free to still be there so whether you want to go with a new tunnel request I let you and the working group decide but don\u0027t take away the thing that you already have in the document which is to pass request via a spec so okay Himanshu from Siena I have a third opinion why not support both I think both has marriage like what Igor was saying and drew said I think it would be quite flexible if we can support both I mean you can start let\u0027s say you started with unprotected tunnel and later on you want to add the protection the two to path request gives you that right and for the same reason what ego was saying the diversity that what kind of diversity you want and all that it\u0027s easier with the single tunnel request so I think it would be nice if you can support both if I\u0027m not mistaken the parts of what Igor said is actually supported in this in the alternative of two separate requests because they\u0027re sent in the same RPC so it\u0027s possible to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:25",
    "text": "compute through the single commutator is that do k paths so that\u0027s their the other point though that Iger had was is that you end up duplicating information and that certainly is a valid point particularly what happens if you get like some of the information conflicts it does make it harder but I think the point of being able to add protection later so that sort of drives you to both yeah is hugely valid yeah you Jake I\u0027m going to follow my predecessor there I think it makes sense to support both for various reasons some of them were already stated also there are various algorithms to be implemented underneath that could behave differently depending of single common request or separate requests so I to believe that boss mode should be considered julienne you want that we work more harder just to answer loose and a human chess point basically when you get protection it doesn\u0027t mean that you forget about the walking past or if you have to still do both things you still have to consider the desert nurse and sometimes you you reroute the walking path in order to that protection so this basically it\u0027s it\u0027s a it doesn\u0027t diminish this request so I don\u0027t mind to have a separate request I thought that for example when you compute paths for different tunnels it\u0027s a different program so that could be solved differently like through tunnel sets with the relationship between tunnels this is not just the joiners there\u0027s a lot of things that maybe like a common optimization problem that you for example want to have the shortest common course rather than basically a shortest course for each of them individually but it\u0027s a separate part I don\u0027t mind to support both as long as we have this option to compute with a tunnel request ie thorough speaking I\u0027m not feeling comfortable with supporting both it\u0027s creating potential nightmare in on interoperability personally I prefer the option that I don\u0027t like to be selected there to have two options because otherwise we have one vendor support request on us and the other vendor support request paths and then you have issues in the interoperability and I\u0027m fine I think all the issues can be solved with other options is it\u0027s just a matter of whether the RPC should make a request to want art animation requests marker pattern we can find a solution to to make sure that the same cementing are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:25",
    "text": "the same features that we have we can avoid option one it can be done with option two ambassador so in my opinion I don\u0027t see a real showstopper or one option versus the other I\u0027m just it to be comfortable with two options because it\u0027s becoming an interpretive 9 thank you um Eric again sorry I haven\u0027t reread the draft very freshly so maybe it\u0027s taking but assuming we go for option one do you see a way to prevent me from using the past computation module to achieve Q by myself I\u0027m not sure you can prevent that so assuming we will find a way to do option two you need to support up to one for some use cases on I\u0027ll do option to my way wherever so maybe you shouldn\u0027t prevent it from happening so we should try to bring this to a close because we do have other things on the agenda so is there any other feedback you\u0027d like I\u0027m sorry just for one thing so you can always consider computing paths for different tunnels as just who\u0027s unprotected tunnels right and this is also than auction right so it\u0027s automatic option - right but but you can even consider things that you have protected tunnels which could be different in a very different ways for example only working password which is doing but not protection and stuff like that so that\u0027s why I think basically option 1 cause everything so we should get some feedback maybe I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s worthwhile to pull or not it\u0027s actually remember as a working with document it\u0027s the UH it\u0027s the editors responsibility to gauge what\u0027s going on in the working group so would you like to do some polling or do you feel like you had enough folder feedback I think that work can help or anyway some other we have get up and we can also track with many lists some people when we do posters for here and there it\u0027s cheap so we\u0027ll ask about just option one and option two and I think Julian\u0027s comment is a good one is is that keep in mind if we do option one option two is or is gonna be implicitly supported so how many are in favor of including option one we have s you slowly hit more hands or coming up it\u0027s just a few how many think that option two is sufficient I would say just slightly more they\u0027re clustered to the front that\u0027s part of the reason we don\u0027t come here because we can\u0027t tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "the difference between anywhere where people sit but it\u0027s just slightly more thank you okay okay this is common and I\u0027m going to present as a applicability of young models for a city in work so we\u0027re in shorter time yeah as first as I I can\u0027t yeah please next page great so the motivation of this work is to explain how the different types of young model IPF develop being both may be a couple of working groups here are applicable to the ICT instructors and this has been working group adopted for a while and from last meeting the main change actually it\u0027s not big we just add some description on the service provisioning EMPI and we update to the first Pony reference so let\u0027s see what is happening after we updates the work so basically the on the accept tetra we specify okay to interface the usage for different IDF models into interface the first page we focus on the CMI part so we have a few of them actually this part states and change it with previous meeting including the William Model T service mapping performance mentoring and they are one two three service Model T topology as well so this part is stable at this moment and the next page will show the usage of young models for MPI and this interface is basically focus on the network configuration and the interoperability format winders what we have a deal so far is a service provisioning and we added to use a client signal model in secant working group and the t tunnel model which is developed in this working group absolutely besides the teat Hana model actually technology specific more tunnel models may also be used to do the service deployment and we have also adds this kind of description so on the corresponding interface T Square so okay we are very quickly actually so we have upgrade in Bangkok that we this work will be processed to working group last call after the T G network models so we would like to she wraps experts here to move on and so the generic was first and then this what that\u0027s all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:27",
    "text": "thank you thanks for being quick that\u0027s great roof yeah so I\u0027ll be talking about actn vien yang model and remove the word AC the end there it\u0027s just there in the file name now that\u0027s our biggest change that we did based on the feedback that we got that we removed the tight coupling that we had with the AC thean so now we call this is as a V and yang model a Scythian is still the primary reason why this primary example of how to use this V and yang model but we made it Chernykh and we removed the actn container wherever we had in the yang model so that it could be applicable for other VN operations as well so that\u0027s the main change that has happened in the document so this is basically just a refresher where does the V and yang sits the VN yang uses the PD topology model and it\u0027s built over the T topology model but it is from the point of view of the customer and it uses the single node abstract single node connectivity matrix heavily and uses that using that it explains how the customer view of the VN is there so basically the main thing here was that we are reusing most of the things that are already there but creating a wrapper over them from the point of view of the customer next slide so this is giving you what are the other models that we have so from the TE point of view we have tunnel topology and VN and we also have another work which will be presented later which is the T service mapping which are which which creates a grouping and augments that grouping in the various service model so when you create an l-3 SM service what is the underlying information that you can get wire that augmentation and it gives you at various levels and depends upon the choice whether you want it at the VN level or you want at the topology level or at the end-to-end tunnel level so this kind of gives you based on what abstraction that the customer needs and at that level you can provide the traffic engineering underlay parameters next slide so we while we updated this we also have some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "work to do so we just wanted to give a heads up that this is well this is what you should expect we hope that we could have finished it but we couldn\u0027t so but this you should see before the next idea so what are those things we had various people who want to use VN model asking us how to use connectivity matrices can you explain this in a much better term that what is the relationship between the two because when they think of using a model it cannot be used on its own you need to have a little bit coupling also create the T topology single node so how do I use different yang different yank messages via net convent restaurant first using a CT and VN model and then using the T topology model and how things comes together that is the part where people want little bit more clarification so we have started writing the text and hopefully this should be seen in the next version people also ask the question that why you create a VN model one of the main reasons is the service so we wanted to maybe borrow some text from the service mapping as well and say that we are creating this because of this l3 SM services or LTV SM services and this is where the VN model could be used so only the part of the VN we might borrow from the the service mapping model as well then we have enhanced VPN and other work coming in which also says that it reuses actn concepts so we wanted to describe how this VN y and modeled can be used for VPN plus kinda use cases as well and use references wherever is possible but carry that information within the document so that anybody who comes and reads this gets the context where we are coming from specially since we have now removed the word a CTN and these things we wanted to make it a little bit more clearer how it is a generate VN model that\u0027s our next step so heads up if you have any suggestions how to do this please reach out to the authors and we will post this pretty soon and definitely before the next idea thank you that\u0027s right thank you for doing the work and continuing read closure thank you thank you this is young I present traffic engineering and service mapping young model on behalf of many authors and contributors to give you some overview of what is T service mapping I think drew Canole gave some precursor Indian context we have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:27",
    "text": "several service model layer one connectivity service model layer 2 layer 3 SN and we have you know T service mapping types we separated out because this is a common service policy or intent per se as to what kind of relationship my service I\u0027ll have to do with respect to a viren\u0027s tunnel whether I want to have my own service isolated from others and what is my availability expectation so this is kind of intent or policy per se and and how so we kind of separate out that service type and and I think the decision was instead of having one model you know providing this tea service mapping we separate out each service model and then we argument and import our tea service in metal type into that Augmented model so in this draft we have three augmented models layer 1 layer 3 SN T service mapping layer two and layer 1 and and we provide underlay a references of how my instances are created in the underlay in terms of in the tea service I mean T eternal or topology or even the N so that the service creator can see some visibility of a list ID of might eternal creative or service instance so that they can find out more about how they are performed so basically this tea service metamodel provide seamless service operation with underlay Tia Network in terms of visibility and control so that\u0027s kind of an overview so here we created a map type so to speak we submit type basically I give how you know my VN and tunnel a selection policies are related you can as you see on the left side new VN and tunnel binding in there we can we allow customer to specify isolation constraints or intent like for instance hard isolation with deterministic characteristics means I want my paths isolated from you know sharing with other people in other services and I expect some kind of deterministic characteristic and and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:29",
    "text": "some other level hard and soft and also VN sharing customer could request a VPN where tunnels can be shared with other existing VPNs and the internal modify means this allows to modify some properties of existing tunnels in terms of vendors and other selection mode and I think we added before being adopted availability some customer want to express my service to be available in terms of six nines or five nines and so on and so this needs to be translated into Network level policies in terms of protection and rural policies but intent doesn\u0027t dictate that it\u0027s up to the network operation to meet this requirement or intent so update since last ITF this was adopted after ITF so there\u0027s name change and we added general applicability statement and so we kind of tone tone down a CTN context it\u0027s actually never meant to be a CTN context because the tea service mapping we put a little more text that this is generally applicable in any setting any service model setting and underlaid tea setting yeah and we had to change some model because HTTP in the end top container was removed from VN model just to VN so I\u0027ll clean up a little bit of young model so this is I think this is just the beginning of in terms of maturity I think it\u0027s a long way to go and many operators actually contacted us that they want to express certain intent and so on so if you are especially operator or please you know contribute what kind of policy or intern you\u0027d like to add on to this model we\u0027ll be glad to work on that and and in in the meantime we try to progress to mature young model so that it can be ready for young doctors review sooner than later it would be you was a call during adoption from sorry there was a comment during the adoption call from Tom patch and it\u0027d be really good to respond online on the list to him yes so last I saw I believe he said like no one\u0027s responded so it\u0027d be good to respond yes absolutely yeah I wish I had time to do that but at this time I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:29",
    "text": "told him that I will yeah and we will okay great thank you and availability construct do you have any reference or is it something that I think we can find some reference in maybe we need to dig up but yeah I think some operators express those but I don\u0027t know which reference might be the best I don\u0027t know that the ITT I don\u0027t know what wasn\u0027t that came in from a comment from the last discussion made me remember wrong I think come on shoo or someone made that comment and that\u0027s what I thought that\u0027s where this came from but still we need a good reference maybe I\u0027m wrong I think a reference thing is what tonpetty is chasing after anyhow I will try to address yeah maybe again it may be my memories off thank you see so this is the one we moved out of order or into the right order okay good afternoon everyone a decision mhmm Hawaii and here is to give some update about the enhancement uniform of document okay a little recap this document describes a framework of the enhanced vaping service the perverse is to support the requirements of some imaging services in 5g and in January can be also used of us other scenarios but not that tightly coupled with object and this document also summarized them candidate technologies which can be used in different layers to provide this kind of enhancement for example the enhance the data plane we can have different mechanisms to provide a different level of service as a recurrent ease and for control plane considering to use a hybrid of the centralized and distributed mechanism which is can take advantage of both kind of technology and for the management plane basically it will provide some 10 and dynamic creation modification and the deletion of the between services with the require asari it also covers the OEM and the resiliency considerations okay this is a give an overview of this enhancement architecture exactly basically in the bottom this beauty with um and data plane technologies we call it enhanced and array which can provided different mechanism for the resource reservation or resource partition and on top of this we have a middle leader we can use it for to create a different to virtual networks and to integrate the overlay connectivity with an area network source "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:30",
    "text": "to provide a guarantee to service to a customer then on the top we need centralized control and management system but you can can communicate with the customer about the service request and also to report the status of the service here are some updates after the last ITF ok basically after the last IDF we made a merge with some actn he has VPN and analyzing drops or made them part of the management section so that we can make a complete framework including the data plane control plane and the main plane in this single document we also have new Co authors and contributors added to this document then we have some editorial changes in this version the after that or this problem has been adopted by this working group and we have a new revision after the adoption basically this version mainly to solve the comments received about as a scalability which I we talked about two mechanisms with the first is we consider that the enhanced VPN will not totally replace all the existing services in the network that will only cover a subset of the services which require the enhance the characteristics so this can solve part of the scalability concerns and another thing is we can also use some kind of application to bring a group of enhanced VPNs which have some similar behave similar heuristic requirements together and so that we can reduce the state needed in the network another thing is we also pointed out we will try to avoid that the proposed state in the network so that we can have better scalability and in this version there are also some editorial changes to improve the readability okay about the next steps first the way will appreciate the review of this document and to solve the comments received and we also consider to add some description about the inter domain inter layer scenarios we will also add a operational consideration section and improve the security considerations in the last things we also need to work together with the causes and working group to polish the draft because we have to merge and have that maybe we need to review each section about how to we can make the content consistent and to is on the update of the previous drafts we need to see whether some update is needed in this one also mouki I think that\u0027s awful oh this one good progress thank you there\u0027s a draft that was submitted to the LS our working group and it\u0027s actually going to be talked about there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "today no this week gotta get this one and it\u0027s gonna be headed our way and I suspect has some overlap with this document so would be good too if anyone\u0027s available to to go and see what\u0027s going on over there and then moving about synchronizing the content I haven\u0027t looked at it enough I just heard learned about it this week also I\u0027ve been learnt read it to know how good a match it is or whether it really is independent work but it\u0027ll be good for you know to be aware of that and if you\u0027re if you\u0027re able to go see it and talk to the author that\u0027d be great okay I know she\u0027s here it\u0027s in the second LSR session yeah Thursday afternoon AC thank you a thank you and I know I know the author is here I\u0027m sure she\u0027d be happy to talk to you okay okay at a glance on that document I think that might specific to some second morality based am a prism and this one is more generic like the framework oh maybe for this one I think they they apparently have a quite a bit of generic text and right that\u0027s for me that\u0027s part of the reason why the LS are chairs or would like to see it done here is because of the amount of content that\u0027s generic okay we would talk offline about them great thank you thank you again this is what I\u0027ve been asked alright great thank you a short-ass Bella hi I\u0027m Adrian this is I would say this is an update on the design team but it\u0027s not really it\u0027s a initial statement of what we are and what we plan to do unlike nearly every other presentation in tears those slots this is not about young models except it turns out that young models will form part of the work we do so the design team is quite a large design team maybe a bit larger than we\u0027re used to for a team so it\u0027s going to take a little bit of cat herding so I think the the chairs were aware that there were other people who wanted to help as well but we had to draw a line I said sorry so those people are not on it but there will be opportunities to contribute and and make your voice heard later so what are we doing 3272 was published way back in 2002 and actually started its work in 2001 and it\u0027s called overview and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:32",
    "text": "principles of internet traffic engineering which is which is quite a glorious title since then I think te has developed significantly in the internet where it was a an emergent technology before it\u0027s now commonplace and the techniques that we use to deliver it have developed broadened stabilized [Music] additionally we found that the term te is getting used in a number of working groups which is a good thing but this there has been some debate about what people mean when they say te and I think that\u0027s what kicked off the initiative to look at this it seems that the definitions that we have in 3272 are not adequate for today\u0027s world and additionally 3272 points at a lot of interesting but very old preferences and there are now better references within the IETF that we can use so given all that we plan to revise 3272 that is to say in IETF technical terms we will obsolete it so a complete replacement but we will use as much text as we can because we\u0027re lazy our Charter chart is actually three paragraphs that these are the two that matter update 3272 through a full revision strengthening definitions introducing new definitions bringing it up to date with current best practices and making lots of references to other existing or ongoing IETF work and then so that\u0027s the core of what we do how we\u0027ll do that is make regular updates I love the word regular updates so that\u0027s once every 27 years yeah chairs yeah so we\u0027ll make regular updates I think that the plan is really that will be fairly frequent and we\u0027ll talk about it here in Prague and our intention is to have a draft by 105 in Montreal so that the working group can pick that up and make it a working group draft and my design team can fall back to being normal IETF participants how we\u0027ll do this we have a mailing list it has an open archive so you can go and read the emails that we send to each other in the team it\u0027s a closed list so you can\u0027t send to it well you can send to it but it hits my moderators queue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:33",
    "text": "and the intention is that the list is for the design team to have a conversation we\u0027re going to work on the draft in cramdown on github and that means I have to learn two new technologies at once I\u0027ve been kicked dragged kicking and screaming into the 20th century we are starting with 3272 which I\u0027ve turned into crammed down and we will edit on that we expect to remove a lot of text and then add sections for new technologies and new work where those sections are relatively small we do not expect to explain how each section each technology works we expect to mention it and then reference we will publish draft revisions as we go along it\u0027s not our intention to do all the work and come up with a finished document have then publish it and I think we\u0027re worried 3272 is 71 pages long that\u0027s a big document it\u0027s a hard read frankly and we have lots of material to add so since we do not want to end up with 150 pages we will be deleting and editing and compressing I mean compressing the text not compressing the bitstream you can contribute so as I said the list is closed but we want to hear what you think I think the best approach is to wait until we push out the first version which will be fairly rough and may have lots of empty sections and then scream about it scream about it on the working group list or in the corridors or private emails or whatever and and do you feel free to send text I don\u0027t think anybody in the design team really wants to spend their time writing text so if you send it to us that would be great if you\u0027re a little less enthusiastic but you\u0027re you\u0027re concerned then wait until it\u0027s a working group draft and contribute in the in group as normal the design team is gonna meet on Thursday so that we actually sync up on who\u0027s who and who\u0027s doing what and how github works and then we\u0027re actually going to get some real work done anyone have a question about that thank you stay tuned we\u0027re gonna quite something at you later next up yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:47",
    "text": "this is here again this model is basically customer are subscribing to performance monitoring data of their interest so that they can subscribe to and be able to see their data in terms of VN for genetic level and also t tunnel level and in doing so we also added autonomic scale scale out mechanism also subscribed by customer so that some automation some level of automation can be done in this context so we basically use a young push mechanism Netcom young pushing mechanism to subscribe to allow customer to subscribe certain key performance index performance data and be notified through the yunkish mechanism we have a 2 module 1 is T level and the other one is I think we call ICT and never bought a TV to replace as a VN level that\u0027s what it meant and and autonomics for scaling in 10:40 Eternals and for two networks basically are setting exact condition when our tunnel or VN should be scale in scale out based on not just one parameter but it can be multiple parameters at the same time and operation can support and/or min max depending on their performance parameters so we allow that so as I said we have a 2 module one is a VN level alone is a theater level just give you some brief steroids I think one or two ITF I presented and at the time we got some good support and likewise last ITF but there are two pending issues raised up one is packet loss and delay variation these are living more pack eccentric so we deleted from this model actually we didn\u0027t t-type actually they delineate this packet for this non packet so we input a tea type you know performance metric so we depend on that and now it\u0027s cleaned up so we don\u0027t have these two parameters anymore to stay as generic and I think poppin asked me how to how does the scaling mechanism works and so we added a section and also I\u0027m going to present in the next slide yeah so in terms of scaling mechanism let\u0027s say client wants to scaling out operation as an example based on say two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:48",
    "text": "performance pipes to a delay and utilize bandwidth this is just arbitrary pair in men are make sense but as an example 48 hello so ending so it can set threshold time this means duration for which the criteria must for it to true so it can be 1 hour it can be 1 year or whatever so customer can specify and cooldown time is basically duration after scaling action has been triggered there should be no further operation and cooling down so that we avoid some kind of hysteresis type of thing and scale out operation type this is kind of you know and or min max you know okay you know for bunch of type def defined and then we have a list of conditions as a list so you can put multiple performance parameters per say it can be one or can be two it can be multiple within the confines of different performance type so in this case leads to one say two a delay and performance type is - a delay and then stretch your value is thirty three hundred two hundred millisecond and these two years utilize bandwidth I\u0027ll say two hundred merripit so if my tunnel put as a reference there meets this two condition please do scale out likewise we can define scale in depending on the operation that you will not say so this allows the client to set what they want to see their eternal ovn from their perspective from their performance criteria perspective to allow them to set so so this is a short time I present hopefully you know we are you know authors believe that we address all the concerns that are commented on this draft for last three ITF and we think that it has a good base for working group adoption this time comments um DITA Bella Nokia when I read that draft I thought that I will learn something about or subscribing to telemetry and about some attributes that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:51",
    "text": "can be monitored by a client by subscribing to telemetry then I read something about this scaling in scaling out and cooling down and there in looking into the body the main body of the document it was really very hard to understand what these straps is all about so I think the draft in its current state really needs some significant improvements yeah I think that\u0027s a fair question I think we explained within the young on the description but not in the main body so that people has to have to read young before they understand but I agree with data that a lot of description has to be spelled out in the body of the draft so that people wouldn\u0027t get you know lost yeah but really frankly speaking I don\u0027t want to search for terms in the yang in the yang code and read the descriptions there I think the main body of the document should actually describe what this draft is all about as a search and if you look at the view I think people should be able to understand what it\u0027s all about I don\u0027t know that\u0027s my thing he agreed with you yes I agreed with you just said yes there were a couple of comments made the last meeting that don\u0027t seem like they were fully addressed about I think we\u0027re okay about making things technology separating out technologies layer I think we\u0027re okay there but about being careful about what thinking about what\u0027s really a CD and specific and what\u0027s really generic there and being careful about that so here in your cleanup that you\u0027re talking about in the intro writing just keep that in mind and then translate that and let\u0027s let\u0027s see what the next version is and let\u0027s try to talk it about it between now and Montreal on the list and if we get good agreement that enough has been done what we can look for adoption before Montreal if it takes another discussion that takes into the discussion you know great thank you so you\u0027re saying that though the draft need to be a little more updated avoiding the context in context and also the context that I do not have references right things like scaling and scaling out oil see if you can explain that outside of the model which if intersection we create a new section as I section 14 yeah and if you\u0027re defining something new you have to fully define it even better though is to define a reference which defines the thing so fold up soon or yeah that\u0027s definitely before it okay yeah absolutely and and particularly you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:51",
    "text": "know I think Peters comment as right as is as you read it it\u0027s really hard to figure out what you\u0027re doing so get that intro text in there okay just as a co-author Daniel King of the document you know I appreciate that yeah you know readability improvements you know will help with the document but this is you know this is a document that we\u0027re working on now for the best part of two years so trying to have something which is you know perfect and then sort of cool for working group adoption just seems sort of a bit tough I mean clearly telemetry is kind of a hot topic there\u0027s requirements from the AC TM framework we\u0027ve talked about the need for a customer subscription model previous working group sessions so if then summarizing the chairs at this point we\u0027re only going to adopt when beta is no we\u0027re gonna adopt when you do when we do the things that we\u0027ve talked about previously some of the comments that were mentioned at the last meeting weren\u0027t cut weren\u0027t addressed so I don\u0027t think it should be a surprise that we\u0027re saying go do the things we talked about before okay and you know dieter did bring up a good point and that\u0027s a that is something that would be great to address before I think if we go look at the guidelines for yang models you\u0027ll find that it says don\u0027t use just the yang model don\u0027t show the whole tree give some narrative as to what\u0027s going on yes yang is about readability but give the intro so you know I don\u0027t think we\u0027re saying anything that primarily the biggest thing is I\u0027m not addressing the comments from the for the previous meetings okay that\u0027s the biggest thing and this this other one is something that has to be addressed before it\u0027s published does it have to do before adoption that\u0027s why I said let\u0027s see where we are at the next version good okay so we\u0027ve got some calls yeah people Eagle that won\u0027t work well we\u0027ll do it all right I\u0027m eager Thank You Cheers okay so uh I will present a quick update on the document that we presented for the first time or the last ATF in so the idea is very simple basically what we\u0027re saying is that there are numerous models today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:52",
    "text": "that describe how the packet once classified to be part of a particular service would be put on the transport tunnel to deliver to get delivered to the service destination there are many examples for the services Jon just presented one there are others all these models describe such things in their own source specific manner and all of them as far as we know I relate refer to the tunnels by their names basically bodies that can be used to go to the respective data stores and extract the information about tunnels these are very simple obvious and straightforward approach but it has problems the problems are that for one who\u0027s to say who\u0027s to say how many services both possibly many types you can put on a tunnel or set of tunnels and so that disorder so will satisfy the SOS what happens if one or several services require more resources suddenly that we are pre-planned right how many other services could be put on the same set of tunnels right what happens if donal failed and it cannot be restored so you have to basically put all the services on the other time so the the basic and important question is this is client required to do the remapping every time when the tunnel infrastructure get changed so what we\u0027re saying this doesn\u0027t have to be this way so what we suggest instead of mapping services to go exclusively to tunnels you can wrap them implicitly to tunnel pools or children but tunnel pool Paula okay so once you do this you can forget about service mapping and remapping and concentrate only on managing talent pools so what is it tunnel pool it\u0027s basically it\u0027s a set of tunnels connecting different destinations assumably with the same set of properties for example you may have a pool of fast tunnels basically the guarantee certain delay constraint for every tunnel that part of this pool so you can manage this tunnel separated from the services and what you can do is for example start with a single tunnel when it or it\u0027s been through civilization and if necessary you can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:54",
    "text": "add remove replace tunnels without any concerned about service or mapping you can add more sites to the services more destinations again use set new tunnels and that\u0027s it the sirs already mapped to the proper poles next so what happens since we presented it for the first time or we did some the changes we had discussions with some people especially useful ways why steam cooler guy will go from four-way who pointed out that certain parameters that we specified for service so for services and tunnels are redundant and we actually accessed through respective data stores right like say tunnel bandwidth or production capabilities cause things like that so we remove that and we left only parameters permit pertinent for service the tunnel mapping such as like tunnel encapsulation what do you want to put on a packet if you want to use a particular tunnel or client encapsulation what additional information you need to be multiplexed on services which use the same tunnel so the next steps basically we want to have obviously more discussions in contrary what adren said our yeast is not closed so we welcome everyone to join and we have one question for the chairs and working group so so far we are talking about making sure assistant wind tunnels where they implicitly or explicitly but there are situations when you want to have more for the service rather than transport connectivity for example some manipulation with the payload things like that so it is interesting to consider steering services to things like abject apologies especially service function aware topologies or enhanced appearance or slices expressed in any other way okay so so if it\u0027s an interesting proposal so should we use this framework that\u0027s what within this document or should we work as a separate work ethic so can you talk a bit about how this relates to the other service mapping document we have discussed this offline but I guess we just want to talk about it all this service metal documents when they map services tunnels they basically specified specifically tunnel mates what we are saying that it is possible to add to this capability to specify instead of tunnel main tunnel who are you I what Pavan was saying was sort of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:55",
    "text": "more not in response to your question to the chairs but a more general but no no it\u0027s it has nothing to do with a question today just asking okay sorry sorry sorry sorry maybe she but the truth yeah I drove here the one I actually think this is needed but the weird thing that we have done in the group is that we kind of started the tea service pumping something like this where you had an independent model where you had the tea on one side and all the services on the other and we were creating a model but we as a working group thought that no we should augment the service models and include all the information there and we went and did that in the piece of his mapping but now we are creating a new model called te pool and where the pool ID where on the left hand side you have the services and the right hand side you have the tunnels so it is a small subset of what we were doing before it has a you scale I\u0027m not saying it doesn\u0027t but we have just gone drownded round a little bit so it would be good if we can focus a little bit and see one solution that can solve both the tea service mapping as well as the steeple solution if it is possible rather than two disjoint solutions out there the the semantics are quite different so it\u0027s solving you know really solving a different problem here now there may be there\u0027s may still be value of bringing these things together and figuring out how to optimize the complete solution rather than looking at them piecemeal you know the answer what we came up before was based on a very very specific scope of one-for-one mapping actually but that was my friend mapping what it was and it wasn\u0027t the pool but it wasn\u0027t the pool concept even in this pool concept I think the main thing is like there are multiple tunnels though in the document I see that they can say that this tunnels can be shared across services I\u0027m not disagreeing there but from the yang point of view that says such a tiny little change but we are creating a brand new yang model again to solve this one problem that was where I was yeah and it goes to actually interestingly enough it also goes to what we do the srte discussion that we had earlier where we\u0027re not creating a single model we\u0027re using information across multiple models in order to do a composite and useful information so there are two we\u0027re taking the distributed one so you know we write but he\u0027s talking about a different document he said that the other yeah no no I I was trying to say that we\u0027re basically it\u0027s not like we complement your solution we\u0027re helping you with a particular problem that you didn\u0027t consider for example what happens if actually there is a oversubscription right so if you put more services on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:57",
    "text": "tunnel that they can carry okay so should you always remove this services on done also in such cases so explicitly yes so let me answer that question in our the way we were thinking of using it we had another abstraction called VN so our thinking was that that the service is getting mapped to VN and the tunnels is like your tunnel pool where they can come and go and get created and things can change but you have a much bigger abstraction called VN which doesn\u0027t change as frequently so same problem being solved in a different way here we are calling it a tunnel pool earlier it was BN oh I\u0027m not talking we didn\u0027t have in mind over your model right so for example there are like a layer 2 VPN service layer 3 VPN service mapping signals to like a Ethernet town that\u0027s home Yun presented all of these things require services once qualified to put on one tunnel or many tunnels and there\u0027s no easy way to actually define or purple and how this would happen without remaining afterwards during the operation to make it brief basically so that\u0027s what we are suggesting and what we\u0027re saying we\u0027re going even further because it\u0027s not just into internals that could be like a you can steer sure two slices for example okay so it\u0027s it\u0027s much more general problem I think it girl one point is Joe which I want you to realize is that there is still an overlap we cannot say that like when you are implementing this on one side you will implement the tea service mapping thing and then you will also implement the tea pool Terrell pool so I want to carroty which one I\u0027m supposed to use when and that part I\u0027m not getting right now what I\u0027m saying is that we put pool between Connells and your services okay so good is missing right now that\u0027s what so will make it easier to manage that Himanshu from CN I have a question do you cover the tunnels going to the same destination yes yes so in that scenario how is are there any discipline with respect to list feel most fill random field and all those for distributing the traffic on these tunnels yeah so basically what we\u0027re saying is that what\u0027s the sewer system up to a ton of a pool the device can take any tunnel from the pool which goes through the necessary destination okay so how you do multi pass it\u0027s a separate question if you want to basically whether you use like that they entered the labels or whatever it is it is a separate issue but the important thing is that you do not say which exactly tunnel you\u0027re using you you just say use quick down or to get to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:58",
    "text": "whom uncial but okay but there is no way to yeah we do not go into this this problem is solved right so if you want to if you are concerned about break and say say like a TCP flows and so forth that\u0027s not our concern no not that I was thinking more in terms of distributing the for load balancing right so if you if you\u0027re subscribing the services are putting the services on the tunnel which tunnels to choose with respect to which discipline you are using do you want use the most filled list filled random feel put it in any of the tunnels or first fill up first and all then go to second tunnel and things like that but this is a multi-part problem right okay we can take okay yeah so we still have these two documents that do talk about mapping client services to transport so there even though this sort of complements the other one there seems to be room to put them under the same umbrella so I would encourage the authors to talk to each other and see what they can do over it so I have already one model that basically I stopped working on because chairs forced to actually to get with somebody else for which I think was no no problem it wasn\u0027t in this work and go right but but what I\u0027m saying is that we have provided like common infrastructure to mean it such model so if we combine we need to combine all of them into one umbrella and then we\u0027ll have that otherwise it should be a separate work in my opinion so sorry asking you forget with the other authors and come up with a proposal for the working group okay and in terms of the other question you had I think it would be interesting to bring up some specifics it\u0027s a little hard and abstract so I think an abstract if you have additional information that is not sort of the traditional network te piece but you think makes sense to integrate into the model bring it forward and we can talk about it and one of the things we may say is that piece of information yeah a fine augmentation to what we\u0027re doing it augmentation to a te model but it\u0027s not really for it\u0027s not really our group that should be doing it or we\u0027ll say that there\u0027s no group that\u0027s appropriate and make sure our eighties agree and we\u0027ll do it here so but we are doing this a in council appearance for example right yeah we\u0027re already doing that all right so for example if I want to put a packet on the hands appear and I want to keep it within this regardless how its processed right so it needs to be somehow still maintained on this idea yeah so the sort of the inner working function the entry function into the te network where do we define that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:59",
    "text": "and you know do let\u0027s say we\u0027re talking about a evpn model or an l3 VPN model that we want to map to te and we\u0027re probably talking about we have to decide whether we\u0027re talking about an augmentation to a T model to do it or an augmentation to a best model to do it and based on the proposal we can talk about where\u0027s the right place to do it and either way we\u0027ll have to synchronize across groups so I think the in abstract the answer is well let\u0027s see that but let\u0027s see some specifics that you want to work on and we\u0027ll judge in the alright in the specifics rather than give a categorical no or categorical yes Eric so basically the discussed already this that we will have to still practice not just to tunnels up to certain abstractions and we\u0027ll provide that thank you if you can pull the mic up or you can sit down okay this is how Mian and I\u0027m going to introduce this work interworking bit of the tree NPR\u0027s control and centralized controller system okay so in the beginning we started with the motivation of this work again and this is try to reveal what is the previous three NPR\u0027s control playing with a distributed format so as a left hand side of this one and composed by a group of protocols including the rsvp-te or X OS PFD and Arabic but with the emerging of the controller systems actually we introduce further controller hierarchical control hierarchies into the full system but the control playing and data plane still remain unchanged so new technologies introduced to the includes a steam controllers the net conf and the rest Colosseum model and also the PC protocols as centralized control functions so centralized is always you know we have two inter work with distributed ones and the traditional solutions so this workgroup gives a description of how these two groups of the protocols can be worked together so this work was presented in Bangkok and migrated from second to T\u0027s so from after Bangkok meeting we have made two updates based on the comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "from love technical advisor and the chairs so in particular we change or something especially for the a CTA this is not a city a specific draft and we try to use the term as only an example of the implementing for centralized control but not the only one that means so we don\u0027t restrict to the worked be a CTN and we also press correct some of the description on the usage of the existing solutions like OSPF t is place would be on the devices and we also add some considerations on security and metric penalty considerations as well so currently we the next steps the first step is to ask for our group adoption because we think we are in good support as previous two meetings in two different working groups and there would be still one pending issue from the Lu on the mailing list to provide more detail the description of section 7 of our scenarios but I think we reach agreement with chairs to address that after working groups adoptions so some more whether you know that was agreement from an individual if the word if it\u0027s others want to state a different opinion they certainly yeah I\u0027m sure these are you done yeah I\u0027m done okay so I have a question on one of the previous slides where you showed the different control things that one yeah yeah Lu Anderson is there an obvious reason why LMP is not part of those tags why not LMP you ever tries it\u0027s not part of the other stack I\u0027ll get the astonishing I can don\u0027t understand why LMP is say link management protocol and you need that in those type of stacks don\u0027t care well generally we we talk about the say discovery signaling and routing functions they are actually solved by this group of protocols I Mozza orders or we should remove aren t here I say Olympian that left stack is fine it struck me there then I asking why is it not part of the stack to the right yeah the question is the functionality provided by LMP how is it I trust another obvious reason why it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:04",
    "text": "not there there could be there as well yeah but it\u0027s not the folks our main focus of this work it\u0027s just well cooking together okay yeah think about it I don\u0027t know thank you for reminding yeah okay how many people have read the draft and this is actually a trick question I\u0027ll tell you the trick so the the trick here was to see how many of our design team members have read the draft because I have a question to them does it seem Adrian\u0027s design team I think we only have one design team right now there\u0027s other design there\u0027s other design teams in the ITF but not in this working group unless I miss something so the question to the design team members who who have read or haven\u0027t read is does it seem to you that this work actually folds into your work because we I know we have explicitly talked about wanting to do fully decentralized fully distributed control fully centralized control and hybrid and to me this is a description of hybrid and so the question is is does it make sense to roll it into yours in some way and by the way some way could be yeah publish it individually and we\u0027ll point to it that\u0027s also some way this is Adrian commenting that the camera is placed beautifully so I don\u0027t have to be able to see Lou I do not speak for the design team even though you just assigned it as my design team I think I\u0027d lead right yeah yeah exactly yes I lead from behind and I don\u0027t think fold-in is the right word I would not if you look at the size of this document I would not expect to encompass this document in 3272 abyss should 3272 abyss have a couple of parrot paragraphs that say yes there are different ways of operating with T Network and one of them is distributed and one of them is centralized absolutely and that actually I talked about that this week with a couple of people on the team already and then a reference to this okay so I think that this this document falls in to scope and it\u0027s actually quite useful and then can be a something that gets referenced okay other comments as Adrian "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:05",
    "text": "point out it\u0027s he\u0027s not the only design team person in the in the room and and others who are on the design team raise their hands as I said it was a trick question if anyone else would like to comment you\u0027re also welcome I\u0027m not trying to exclude anyone I was just trying to put them on the spot that\u0027s all other comments no sandy malice yeah I have read the draft and I think it is quite useful especially when describing is as Adrian said hybrid systems and I would certainly like to see it go forward okay great all right so the the one issue that I think is a major issue for going forward although it is not necessarily a blocking one is that the description says that it a CTN is an example but then everything else is a CTN and like like we\u0027ve said before is unless there\u0027s something that\u0027s truly a CTN specific we shouldn\u0027t make it a CTN specific we should make it so it allows for anyone to follow that and there are definitely te controllers out there that don\u0027t follow a CTN there\u0027s no reason why this work shouldn\u0027t cover that yeah actually III can\u0027t agree with this and we in the last iteration of the revising we did to remove some mobster you know terminology used for its it in specific than the replaced by is those kind of controller system or some similar terms try to we know protein the the usage of the centralized you know a technology yeah so I agree with you that this is not a city and specific work of course and if there are something missing and should be changed again we will do that okay that\u0027s good with that so how many think this is work that the working group should be working on so it\u0027s a reasonable number how many have read the draft I looks like almost the same number I can\u0027t tell if it\u0027s identical how many people think this is a reasonable starting point for the working group I think that\u0027s actually the most so we have maybe more than who think it\u0027s interesting work thank you and the last too many who thinks that we should not be we should not accept this document as a starting point I know one so that\u0027s that\u0027s very helpful feedback "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:05",
    "text": "we can take it to to the list I would ask that the next version that you issue which ever one it is other than if it\u0027s labeled zero zero include an open actions list on it okay thank you thank you next is Jeffrey so this is a document that was presented in MPLS working group before since we are already progressing the RSA vrm our base document here we thought we should progress this as well Jeffrey will introduce it to T\u0027s and we\u0027ll take it from there okay thank you first I want to point out I actually made a mistake on this first slide it\u0027s the trap is actually now in that here at cheese group so it\u0027s T\u0027s our MRCP Co MP and this actual version 0 2 so this is about the optimization which could be we could do to set up our CP TP 2 MP um resilience mock us tree we presented the in the mus group before it\u0027s rehome to here and this is my first time presenting here I requested the comments on the mailing list so far had has not generated discussions there hopefully this presentation can trigger some discussions and then I will burn this towards the one group adoption so first the traditional activity appeared on this signaling we\u0027re here I\u0027m using a ring topology but imagine this is a just general topology the way the traditional are with us with TPP works instead the set of one survey RSP for each leaf and in the control plant that\u0027s one service officially but in the pig the dead will actually generate merged 14 states so that you don\u0027t have the individual foreign state towards a sheep but that doesn\u0027t mean that there are lots of redundant paths and reserve a state near the panelling grass in this example in r1 the tunnel ingress you would have three pairs of pass residue States on art so you have two pairs and so on so forth and also the each Li is explicitly listed each sub recipe optionally can have with own explicit paths and if you want to the panel to panel action you would need additional state as well on a ring topology this all this could be optimized the way musical and using the arm are mr religious organizations the the first optimization is that you only need a single LSP to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:07",
    "text": "set up a ton of example in this case if you have art Hawaiians that tunnel ingress and r2 r3 r4 and r5 are then leaves you could have a single SPE going clockwise all the way to our five alternatively you could our one could set up two hours of us peace one clockwise to our for the other one counterclockwise to our five so but this to a severe speeds in two to four different directions is not for protection progress just to reach different set of leads in different direction so that you have better paths or better latency here notice that we don\u0027t really need explicit path you all you need to do is just sent along the ring another optimization is that you don\u0027t even need to list the leaves anymore you can allow implicit leads in a case the past message is simply lists the ingress is soft as a leaf and you send it plasmids messaging along the ring while the girls are wondering if a leave notes that it should if a node knows that it should be a leaf then it will send a resume city tour towards the pure hop and then there was set up the state we you could allow both explicit easily lives or implicitly allowed lives and also notice that whether it\u0027s explicit lives or in in facilities the traffic stop at the last leaf even if you\u0027re sending a plasma around the ring is because the last leaf was saying the resident as digital towards the P hub and then the last leaf will stop the traffic there now state protection you do not need additional signal state because you could just ton of the traffic in other direction when there is a failure and that\u0027s before the global repeater finishes after Theatre in this example let\u0027s say we have a tunnel that was R 2 R 3 R 4 P in the leaves and then all of a sudden the link between our 2 \u0026 3 bricks then r2 who was sent the imply traffic before the global repair finishes will send traffic Canada traffic in the other direction using the ring USP 2 R 3 and Austria will continue what Henry\u0027s done can\u0027t it\u0027ll send its harmful load protection is similar it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:09",
    "text": "just you send it to the next next node and live live protection in those situations you don\u0027t need a live live production anymore because as soon as you detect a feeder you just ton of a track to get around around along the ring in the other direction the traffic restoration should be really fast if you really care about the live life the detection for your mission critical scenarios yes you can do that but that would assume that application or the downstream leaves the off the ring or piece a responsible for removing the duplications to do that you just set up two opposite direction somewhere else feeds to reach all the leads and send traffic in both directions and now the leaf will receive duplicate traffic because your is recently in two directions and you would deliver the trafficking that the duplicates but rely on the the next note our coffee - TC to do that discography wickets and with this you can also - MP to MP now if they are the plasmatic also carry a label useful down Sereno three cents traffic upstream then there you have a MP - MP found out there and if you the ingress happen to set up to several speeds in two directions instance just one direction going down the ring then the ingress note being the route is responsible for sending the traffic into the other direction from the therapy you\u0027re receiving so though what I talk about is just the general procedure of this description on how it could be done and there there will be some related RCT objects or the RM our object basically in case that we want to do harm our optimizations here it would be include ring ID and the wind direction it means that where you want in which they\u0027re working on same traffic and then the existing SQL sub P descriptor list which typically this explicit leads now it could also leave at least ingress itself to indicate that it\u0027s actually also solicited impressive lives and and also the postman\u0027s you could carry label objects for mp3 and Paterno\u0027s so as mentioned before this was presenting enjoys the group before this rehomed here basic comments and then after some polishing record requests working group adoption in fact "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:10",
    "text": "at this time the authors believe that we are already in a state ready for the adoption but for the working group I would like to see more discussion suggestions comments and then go from there can request talking about adoption whatever that working group yes ready all right thank you questions comments so this document is like the other rmr document where it\u0027s a little different than a normal individual contribution is it\u0027s actually being sent to us by another working group who thinks it belongs here my memory is the last time around it\u0027s not that they had fully reviewed or vetted it it was just that they believed it belonged over here and I suspect that it\u0027s the same here I\u0027m looking to Lola to either nod or disagree so he\u0027s nodding he\u0027s saying yes it\u0027s not that they said that they want it published by tease it just rubber stamped by tease they\u0027re saying it just needs to be worked through our normal process here that said we did we do have the other arm our document as a working group document so it seems like a reasonable companion so with that said the mpls chair is going to the mic so I must be mischaracterize something so the RMR document I like the placement of the camera sorry Lou Anderson the RMR documents are in we have to in MPLS the base document that is waiting for an update of the working group last call so there is no reason to for the bit because of other documents to wait for accept in this document if it\u0027s okay to accept it you can do with that the there is also an LD P document in MPLS and I think there will be a point-to-multipoint document going to is more like a mount point Moulton framework document viewing to MPLS and then there is potentially a document human to the spring working you for same dropping detroit channel quickie really correctly that\u0027s what you said last time the clarified the under multicast or PNP site indeed there is another informational documents in the NGO s working group generally talk about ring or in a topology with rings harmonicas could work whether it\u0027s native multicast or MLD p-peter Matano are apt to be done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:12",
    "text": "is a informational framework kind of document just describe how things could work there and this one here is specifically about our speech if he can be tunnel optimizations including the procedures and and encodings things like that okay great thank you so going back to asking for comment how many folks in the room are interested in our mr in the topic in the topic okay so we have just a few how many have read this document and that could be anyone maybe one more maybe a couple more how many think that we should adopt this document about the same but I\u0027ll note maybe some different hands how many think that we should not adopt this okay we have a person who thinks that we should not of course that means that we should ask them why hi I\u0027m Adrian I\u0027m not opposed to the work but adopting it seems I just went to the mpls list quickly to see how much discussion they\u0027d been on this before it came over the wall and couldn\u0027t find any and I\u0027m just a little nervous that this is maybe premature do you know that we have another RMR document I know that you have another on our document and also that the mpls working group so I\u0027m not I don\u0027t I\u0027m not thinking about where it belongs it\u0027s just this specific multicast R\u0026R seems to have had a dearth of discussion gotcha okay thank you good feedback I strongly support this work because this is Mancha from Siena many of the mobile networks mobile wireless backhaul networks are ring based and we we see the scaling issues and we really need this type of solutions I had actually asked Keerthi maybe a couple of meetings ago to revive rmr stuff and I\u0027m glad that you know this work is now coming along so I I strongly support this in fact I want some more stuff I will talk to you offline yeah I agree with so our comment from the floor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:12",
    "text": "was please use the mailing list I wholeheartedly agree is the multicast support included in the base MPLS documents based on arm are enlarged document oh yeah he does not mention that it does not mention MPLS to me that\u0027s a little more problematic the best discussion is is it would be is there a reason it doesn\u0027t belong there no I think initially was just poking some down on the unica side so we didn\u0027t want to would later on with that or looking to a market solution I\u0027m Karen Mar at that time we didn\u0027t want to disturb the existing uniqueness document so we do have another mpos RMR or document specifically talking about the magis options and how it works with various continent technologies is that an adopted working group document or an individual it\u0027s individual I think is I\u0027m also going to request people to comment on that and we also request or congroo of adoption I didn\u0027t plan to present it again because then there is no content change yeah I did address a lot of very a lot of comments from from Laura thank you very much and so that\u0027s the auditorium so low Anderson again there is a reason why we haven\u0027t started the working group adoption Paul because we think the document already food to be adopted but we wanted to wait until we had done the conclusion or the working group last call on the aura or base document so again there is no reason to not adopt document here before because of documents in in MPLS but you need to do that on their own merits and on this document here if the base definition of how the data plane works isn\u0027t a isn\u0027t progressing in MPLS I don\u0027t think it makes much sense for us to be doing work here on it the Ford in place is no different from from pain MPOs at all whether it\u0027s our own there\u0027s even put our mr unique as a soft there is no change in the photos so I\u0027m not sure we\u0027re arguing about anything that is gonna really matter if it\u0027s gonna move adoption in short order and mpls you know if you if well you think it\u0027s gonna be adopted in MPLS soon we don\u0027t have to are you talking about the informational document yes the base document is true "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:15",
    "text": "what he replies call weight of update yeah that the dark the multicast one day what I called it must cost framework actually talking about how it could works with different about control planes that document I think will be adopted in the MPLS in the near future okay it seems to me that polling the control plane document after that adoption happened seems like a reasonable ordering okay so you want okay yeah no I understand here so you want to have the order we conclude the working group last call on the base base document then we do the information on document adopted that in MPLS and then you do the adoption here the first part the first part is something you\u0027re saying that\u0027s you know that\u0027s your own process and that\u0027s fine I\u0027m not I\u0027m not commenting on that internal process that MPLS working group process the second one is is one the adoption that I\u0027m refer okay that\u0027s fair and it sounds like that\u0027ll happen in short order and also will provide a reasonable reference point for the work we\u0027re doing here so do you know it doctor draft that actually talks about soon it was written bikini bacteria okay so it\u0027s the same author that period alien talked about be awaiting for an update however I talked to Kate his co-author here and he promised to start address in the comments in the coming weeks so he should be doing it fairly soon look forward to this your who\u0027s ever definition of soon and hopefully way before Montreal thank you we should move on thank you thank you and Hitler Busey and prepare presenting a rough describe insomnia model for my recipe and the other to say act next please okay what was the problem statement we had the face we added to support some capabilities to do discover to false discovery at Anna set up a fabulous temple SDP Network especially the use case that we had face was a multi domain layer neck where we have OTO networker and ample stp capabilities on top of it so we have to set up OD antennas exposes of the antennas as links in the MPLS TP topology as a top and precipitous over it and the scope of this idea no impact on the other side but we notice that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:16",
    "text": "were some missing information to to provide the address the fit apology and the MPLS TP Turner cetera so we are working on own data next one don\u0027t press none press okay sorry okay what was the approach the approach was the fact that we take it a can defy the temple SDP is a profile of mpls with that he features so the intention is the temple SDP topology and tunnel model sugar mint at the generic at tea topology internal models which are defined in T\u0027s and what we did we did basically a gap analysis what were the existing MPs TPD modest and we look at and we add and develop the minimal set of attributes that we have not found in the tea or MPs to be modest a so far so from it topology perspective what we have is the network topology from I to R s and the T topology model is okay and we had the tormentor the T topology model with the MPs defeat apology we do not find any MPLS t topology model so maybe that\u0027s why we did that for just for TP but they didn\u0027t release it for the next steps so allow that analytics after the same with edit eternal and we augmented from the MP SDP tunnel because we noticed that what we needed for that specific cases was not available in the existing IDF draft and the next test may be it since dpnt are basically one profile of hatch maybe we can the idea is maybe we don\u0027t need to develop a temple SDP topology and tunnel we just need to make sure that the MPs DPT topology and tunnel models are capable to be used the internet pstp network so what we can do we can\u0027t a deep DP topology as a starting point to develop the T topology or we and we can merge the appropriate attributes that we have defined in our TP tunnel model into the existing athlete under model and next please so what are the gaps that we have identified for the topology with we have basically we need to do all the augmentation for the technology specific case in the topology and the idea for the use case that we had we said we don\u0027t need to augment the key level for topology because the scenario that we have single domain tunnel and the label allocation is done by network elements so there is no need to report to the controller what are the restrictions on the labels that the network address supports because at the end is the label on locating there the label is allotted a magnetic element the control has no control of it and if this is a generic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:17",
    "text": "applies to every MPLS networks we can keep it otherwise we can work on augmenting those for the D band we have to report the maximum bandwidth on the link the maximal or cell value on the link and what is the RSL banner on the linker so we have created a case MPLS DP to be added to the generated topology to report this type of bandwidth and also we have to report in the TTP and India kidding what is the maximum LSP bandwidth and we have also created a case over there that\u0027s one piece and for the timeless etapa basically what do we need to do is when we have when we report the computed property so what is the path that has been computed for an MPLS tblsp or for primary secondary or for the LSP then we need we have the label of hop object which has contains a label and we have a case that we have added the case for the MPLS TP label which we reuse the MPLS label defined by the archetypes and then for the Bendel of the tunnel when you set up a tunnel we we have a direction of tunnel symmetry so we have only want bandwidth and we specify on the tunnel and we specify what are the CIA Arya yaadon all these attributes from the tunnel perspective yes please okay over so sorry we\u0027re already over time okay okay I will yeah I\u0027m almost done so okay so death that\u0027s most basically those attributes insufficient for the use case that we add now if you want to go and merge with an MPLS the modus you have to think about some of the subtle technical issues so that are some of the differences which between DP and t1 is the directional SP and my feeling is that all the be relational LSP options that are defined by ethnicity are already supported by the eternal so basically no impact just make sure that this my feeling is correct is more than enough we have a problem with ecmp when when you when you set up an MPLS de piel SP the pad computation should make sure that selects only links which do not perform ICMP so there is no miss ordering of the packets over this as an SP so this is something that has to be taken into account if you have a common topology between T and T P so some links which do perform ecmp can be useful used by par computation for LSP D but not for TP PHP also if you want to set up an LSP without peace you have to make sure that the link that you select to the last node that is capable not to perform PHP and also if you want to do a yeah maybe when you set up the path you want to make sure that the nodes in the know along the path that you are setting up are capable to recognize the Orion packets with a girl I don\u0027t think there are other issue that has to be addressed in terms of topology and Tanis adapter or the other diffuses are in the OEM which are otoscope here but if I have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:17",
    "text": "miss any I will be happy to know and so these are the few items I don\u0027t think there is any showstopper here just do the work next one please so they are the open issue I see is the first point is do we do we agree as a working group that we should have only MPs typically Motors that covers both the ntp and then basically what you can do is based on that we can address all the open issues that are the opinion thank you so unless the MPLS chair disagrees you know what our perspective is is that TP is a profile of te not its own thing so unless there\u0027s opposition from the te in the MPLS working group i would think i would expect that it would be best to integrate it with the existing te models yeah yeah I get I won\u0027t just will make sure that that that\u0027s the core working group yeah is there anyone who would like to disagree in the minus two minutes we have I that so that seems like the direction to go okay I think it would be great if you send any changes you think necessary to the list you just discuss it there okay yeah yeah of course yeah yeah great thank you these aren\u0027t we\u0027re just showing but it\u0027s easy to what act we can do now we can pull it out put it into separate topics on the list okay as discussed each one okay good and I resolve it that way okay thank you thank you thank you very much appreciate both sessions we will see you in Montreal I think that it can\u0027t render "
  }
]