[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:56",
    "text": "Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:20",
    "text": "Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:34",
    "text": "I mean, not this morning. What again."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:17",
    "text": "So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:48",
    "text": "Alright. Bio all. Thanks for coming. No. I'm kidding Yeah. Karen panic. Gonna start shortly. So finish up and then mask up."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "Oh. So we're gonna start in a few minutes. I see a couple people getting their Qr code. I do I would like everybody in the room to please do that because that also help us with the counts going forward. And we're giving a little bit of extra time for people to finish eating and put their masks back on for those who are uncomfortable. Being in a room with so many people without masks. So there you have it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:58",
    "text": "Alright. Okay. If we could Go ahead and get started. Get people to come in, sit down, put your masks back on. Or if you're eating finish up quickly and put your mask back on. And stop talking. Alright. We ready? Okay. So welcome to the working group forum at Ie f sixteen team despite the fact that the email I sent out said I f one fifteen, I I really did mean one sixteen. This is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Can I do what? Wow, that was more effective than me. Alright. So in any event, this is the working group form at It sixteen. This is definitely not a group that I need to put the note well up there, but here we have it. It is the note well. Our meeting today is a little bit abbreviated because we wanted to give your time for everybody to finish their lunches and put your masks back on. If you have any questions about any of this ask your fellow working group chairs? This is our agenda for today. It's I I just had a quick update we're moving Greg to the end instead of the beginning because he thought we were starting earlier than we were. So we're gonna swap him out. And with that, Spencer, you ready? Always ready. Sorry. I failed the height requirement. I'm miss mister Documents and I was working with Meredith en. Who has a repo with a adopted Eighty core working roof back and we started using labels beyond what the starter set is. And math asked me if we were using the right ones and I said, I don't know."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "So I asked on the Brooklyn group cheers mail list probably about a month ago. And it doesn't sound like there is a right list. Which is fine. And then I wondered if we could do you any help at all. So I'm not talking about writing a Bc or picking color or really anything else. I just be trying to be helpful. So I was going to ask if your working group has one or more is that they have labels that work for you, then please send me a pointer via email. Thanks. Catch? Hi. Just wanted to be clear, I'm not sure if I really is following this specifically or or is using Github specifically in this way? Labels you're talking about are the tags that can be assigned to issues or merger crust. Right? Right. Okay. So And just kind of giving people maybe more of flavor of what I'm talking about. Some people who replied to the thread on the working group sheriff's mailing list said, This is, you know, this is for future stuff. This is our. Some stuff was we know, So for the stuff I most likely to use is when with an issue or Pro request is likely to be discussed. So putting the ones down for the next It meeting or next virtual living room. Turns out to be helpful. To me in knowing where to focus my my attention. But yeah. Jeff. So my easy feedback here is that These labels are for the people that actually pay attention to the issue. Which is a very small subset of people."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Reason why these aren't standardized is because what you're looking to do is optimized workflow of people that are the consumers of them, and that's gonna vary based on how people use their github. As an example, an enhancement is a tag that we use in the know, Peach b one because that's the thing that we decided means we're not doing this right now. And the audiences is for the people that's actively working on this stuff. Enhancement may mean something else at a different working group. So I'd suggest is what you're really looking for here is a little bit less about the labels is in your repo, write up a little of how you expect people to actually interact with your hub. That that is that is excellent advice on on a related theme. Thank you for that. The The thing I was gonna say was, if we were able to point anyone at all towards any list at all, of things that working group chairs felt were useful for their working groups. That that would be a little less like letting a hundred flowers bloom and maybe only fifty. So that's... Like I said, hey. Not working with chair s me, and I I knew who I I talked to myself, I knew who to ask. Hey. Lucas Fad. I I saw your email on the list and so thanks asking the question. I'd probably like type to view different replies a couple of times and delete them because I didn't know if they would help So especially with tone, yeah like, I don't wanna sign dismissive, but, like, I am the... What are the coaches of the quick working group. Have multiple different github underneath us, each with the different authors ship team. Or who have various levels of experience at the Etf all have different ways of working. It's all who actually has seem to have different labels. It's easy to get, like, label explosion and be like super micro with your labels and and things. And I think the only thing I can say is prices, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "pick the labels that help the workflow of the authors and editors. Something github doesn't help with is that only... So the only same people with the right permissions could set the label. So see for gap or you just a drive by opening up some issues and you you would might be helpful to label let me comment anyway. So There... There's possibly something we can do here. But I don't know maybe it's just labeling something design or editorial issue. Or norma issue or just like a nice to have but maybe older the rest is up to the the team. To pick and choose themselves. Go and look at other examples. Like don't look at a list we're gonna provide for you. Look at examples of other graphs that may be working. A similar way to how you would like to achieve things. Just Yeah. And and thank you when I was actually hoping somebody from the quick working group would send up. Thank you. Take in your email, you just suggested, you know, a catalog or something didn't say here. What are you thinking? If you get a bunch of stuff as to how you might communicate out your work as you that would go on the chair wiki is ideas for working your chairs? Or do you have any thoughts to what you're trying to be helpful expected up what might be? So and I'm happy to send you what we're and learn from others, but what's the... What's the forum. So... Yeah. I mean, so so two things. My experience, which is not cy with Github is that people in working groups that I participate in. Who use Github start a repo you know, as individuals, and it the documents might or might not move out simply someplace else. So we They were... You know, if people were thinking, and maybe this is the best guy something we could give, If people are thinking about what's useful,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "to start using rather than some... Yeah, rather than Mean if it's the same thing, you can call it anything you want, but if you call at this, people more people will be too likely to guess what you mean. So I'm I I'm like I said, let me my suggestion is let me see what I get. And see if that's more looks more useful for one with the responsibility of the working group or not? But the first the first person who asked me if there was a recommended list was not a working chair. He was not gonna hit. So in terms of brainstorming and Could since you asked for, like, uni cast mails, or whatever I say this now and the brainstorming. Some working groups recommend people when they create drafts to say clone let's say Martin's tools for generating the draft. K? And so for saying one use beautiful places say, in your read me file, I'll talk about what the late are Then maybe putting something there that's like resources for working group carriers to clone, whether it's in Martin's repository or something alongside of it that people can clone and edit whatever, might be a good way to advertise it. So just thought Thank you for that. Anything else? I I I I appreciate the feedback. If anybody is is if anybody is really proud of their labels. People people have people have sent them to the mail the working room materials mailing list already. So following up on that thread would be was the the thing to do too? But like I say, if I get this up to look useful, I'll report back and if I don't, Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:23",
    "text": "Tell you what I'm gonna do this. This is much more comfortable. So the the original plan for today had been for us to talk a little bit about the new participants program here. Was just gonna give a little bit of update of what is and how it's currently organized and some things that are coming down the path. And then Michelle Cotton, who has been working on the new participants program was was going to talk more about that. Unfortunately, the last minute she wasn't able to be here, so I'm gonna cover both. I've also saving that any mistakes here mine because I did not coordinate effectively. With my c chairs or coco coordinators. So with that, the next slide. So the the was it's been around for a little while. It's it's been reorganized and reform added a couple of different ways. It actually grew out of the original edu team. And the mentoring team that we had a number of years ago. And also some of related outreach type activities. And a lot of it was in particular, like outreach in various regions you remember when we were doing there, there were some regions that were doing things like It hubs and things like that. So that was The idea was to collect all of these activities under a single umbrella that they could be better coordinated. Not that Emi emo would do all of these things. But that this would sort of help with coordinating making because they're all sort of targeting the same kinds of audiences. And so that was the motivation for setting it up a number of years ago."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "And then, of course, the pandemic hit and, you know, there's a lot of confusion and a lot of churn. And And then the most recent set of turns is we are ren remaining it but we decided to wait until after this this meeting. And then that way we can rename it and get and we wouldn't mess up data tracker and things like that, but it's gonna be renamed to the education and outreach directorate. After this Atf. But it'll be the same thing. The only thing we're doing is ren it and and moving the tooling over, but it'll be the same set of activities. So basically, the mission of this directorate strive to enhance the productivity of the expand the diversity inclusion of the. All with the ultimate goal of writing better technical standards. We defined early on three. Sets of audiences. I'm gonna focus mostly today on the new participants and potential and new participants, but I did want call out the other audiences, so people have an idea of of how this is know the types of activities that would fall under here. Some of these activities are are going pretty strongly. Some of them have really sort of fallen by the wayside and it it's up to the community to decide whether we wanna go back and start, you know, rei imagining how some of these things could be done or if if we're happy with them continuing to stay sort of dormant. So the three audiences our potential and new participants to the the current Participants and Leadership To next slide. So basically, is about the coordination of those doing those activities and not us actually doing those activities. And when I talk about some of these like, you'll recognize things that, you know, Greg would in his role and the Llc has been doing a bunch of stuff. The guides program, a number of those those activities there. We do have currently have three coordinators. It's Greg and and and myself. And Durham is new since last And we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "deeply thank him for joining the team, and he's doing bringing a lot of new focus and energy in particular to outreach, But at this point, we're sort of at let's get the name change done. Part of this. If you're were in London, we did do he did do a side meeting in London specifically on outreach. So we do have a wiki that wiki also points to some the outreach wiki, which some work has been done since the last meeting. And we will have a side meeting on Friday. This one is gonna be sort of focused on brainstorming what materials we need to bring in the next generation of Ihs participants is opposed the kinds of things that we've done in the past. Next slide Okay. There we go. So I I wanted to highlight some of the types of activities that fall into the different categories for the three different types of audiences and talk a little bit about them. The working group Chair training and, Greg has been here a number times talking about the live training that's been provided it, There was some done last year they were sent in. A year or two before that. Some of you participated in the small focus group that he had to help guide that training and that training was developed externally by professionals nails see provided it. That's also evolving to on demand training, and and Greg is gonna talk about that a little bit at the end. And then there's a working group shares forum, which is this. This is an informal activity. That started out as training, it used to be, like, hour long tutorials given in lunch specifically top targeted at working group chairs and then and evolved into a form of this type where we talk about different issues. Sometimes we are training sometimes we have, you know, people speak about specific things. If you may recall, in London we had the the two new lawyers that are on staff common and introduced and themselves and talk a little bit about that. The one thing I did wanna say about the work their chairs form is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "we would really love to have at least one more person helping to share it. And any ideas and what topics that you guys think are important? Because you know the the question unit no. Lunches are expensive and and time is expensive and valuable. And so we need to think about whether this is is how valuable this is to do continuing. And so anybody that's interested in helping Shepherd this forum forward. Please come speak to us afterwards. A couple of people asked in the chat about you know, the. One of the things is that this shows up in in the data tracker and in the meeting tools under. We've talked about getting that sort of tweaked at a later date, but that's why it's showing up as. Because this this activity currently falls under that set of activities. And the other thing that's been ongoing for leadership is the sort of some of the Wiki and website improvements. Like that in particular Greg has been working on. If you've looked at the chairs wiki, any suggestions anything that comes into that. Please. Speak to him about that. For current Ihs participants depends. This is an area where I feel like we've really kind of gone pretty dormant, we're not doing a lot at the moment. We used to do a lot of technical tutorials The Ie has coordinated recently more recently some deep dives. And there's been some work on improving the process and tools documentation If you've looked at the Wiki and you've looked at any of the data tracker quick, quick guides. You, like, you know, I need to do this one quick task. How do I do it? Mary Has driven some effort to develop a number of quick guides that are being published. So those are the kinds of things that fall into that set of activities. And this particular one, I think the you know, the current energy has sort of gone out of the room. And so it's sort of... Do we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "but have anybody who's interested in working in this space, that would be great? The next set of activities are the potential and new participant activities. And I've divided these into two categories. One is the outreach activities which is is looking at externally and bringing people in. So it's it's Atf and the region and those kinds of activities. At this stage, we are really just getting that activity restarted. And I mean... Durham might wanna come to the microphone a little bit later and talk a little bit more about what let's planned there, but the what we've got at this point is the beginnings of a wiki the idea is to to provide resources to people that are speaking externally about the and encouraging people to come to the Etf. Provide them those resources and also to provide a list of examples of of where those kinds of activities are ongoing. And then the new participants program and that was the primary part of of where we were today. So for the new participant programs you wanna go to the next slide, The new participants program is probably It's one of the strongest pieces I think we have at this point. Michelle Cotton is now our new participant ambassador So she runs a small group of us that you know, coordinate in the run up to an It ihs meeting. Planning the activities for that coming Meeting. We did recently change the name because name changes are thing to do, I guess. We changed our name from newcomers to new participants. Because the the feeling was is that a lot of people that are coming to the for the first time or not necessarily like newcomers in the sense of people that are fresh of college, but they're more like people that are new to the It etf, but they're not new to industry are not new to the technology space in general. And the the new participants program does a few things, just some stuff in advance."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "And then it also does some stuff at the It ihs meeting. The stuff that's done in advance, there is a new participant mailing list just like there's an attendees mailing list. And that mailing list is we're being... It's being used a lot more proactively now in addition to just reminding people a specific things, It's it's almost a weekly set of messages to the people that are registered as newcomers, giving them tidbits of information each time. You know, pointing that to tools they might wanna learn about and that kind of thing. There's also been some informal virtual coffee breaks before the meeting that are just basically open door if somebody wants to come and join and ask any questions and there might be one or two people that are there to ask those questions. And then, of course, again, ongoing web improvements. And then the next slide? Is the guides broke. So These are the activities that happened during It half week. We do still have the guides program, which is the formal mentoring program. I know a number of you have participated as guides, and the current coordinators of that program are west and Poland race and I think that is is moving that that is also pretty well founded. And there's a lot of tooling to support it. And then during It week itself, there is the new participant overview, which is the... Basically, the former tutorial it was given on Sunday given on Sunday, it's a tutorial of all of the things. Later this week, I'm just gonna send a link to them most recent version so you guys can get a look at it and see the kinds of stuff that we're where telling new participants and and feel free to feel free to provide suggestions, especially suggestions that might make it a little bit shorter as opposed to a little bit longer because over time, it seems to have grown in size to be. We were sort of originally targeting like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "forty five minutes or so, you know, and fifteen minutes questions and and now we're up to fifty five slides, so you can imagine that that does not quite fit in an hour. And then there's a quick connections. I know a number of you have put participated in that. And there's a new participant dinner, which is just for newcomers, new participants. That gives them an opportunity ming monks themselves. And then We used to do a feedback session what we have now is a new participant participant social hour, which is where we get get our gathering feedback. And we're looking at different ways to do that. To get both you know, anecdotal evidence talking to people. And then also ultimately getting some survey data that gives us more data over time about how the new participants are interacting with the. So the next slide is just some feedback that I... That we've gotten from the new participant program of anecdotally at this point. But I think it is I think we've struggled a little bit over the years with the image of being not a very welcoming place. And and I do think... I mean, we don't have to support this, but we have we have an anecdotal evidence that that is improving that it is becoming a more welcoming environment for new participants to come into. I think that's critical for the future of the. Also the new participants are getting the message that it really kinda need to be prepared for sessions and so that they the part about reviewing the drafts is really important. Also the observation has been made that they wish the agendas were posted earlier, which we all do. I I wish I posted my own agendas earlier. We all we all wish everybody else's agendas who posted earlier. So there there's a this last few weeks are always a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "chaotic. And the new participants would, you know, would like a little bit more engagement between meetings. We've talked about trying to do some sort of virtual support online support of virtual support for them between the meetings. And I I didn't I said, Michelle was supposed to be here. So this particular set of bullets are from her. I'm not exactly sure what the improved remote participation experience was. I think we I mean, there's always room to improve these things, but I think we we do a pretty good job. So I I think I need a little bit more information on exactly what that was about. And then the last slide, I think. Was sort of some to next kinds of questions. Doing not time. Looking ahead. What kind of changes are needed to to the program. I I think in the last year or two, I think getting secretary of support getting the shell in place as the new new participant ambassador to sort of keep us on a strike narrow and getting things done is has improved things a lot, but, of course, there's always room for improvement. And so we're kind of interested in in what year interactions with the new participants have been. And what you think some improvements would be. And then what do you see missing in their onboarding information that would make them more successful? The And with that, yes Somebody's in the queue. So Three people in the queue? I am leaving through. From Okay. Three. So So this is a comment about the new participant program Is it still defined as the first five meetings? No. We actually did away with that definition and now it's basically self defined. We don't say it's one meeting or or more than one meetings. It's like, if you want... If you consider yourself a new participant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "you're welcome to participate in new participant program. Okay. In talking to one of the new participants, she was attending it only the second time, She was of course missing the tag, which might be a choice that we decided to get away to show that she was a new participant. She was not even a aware of the fact that the some of the programs were still open to her. So is she she did not attend the newcomers meet and Greet and did not know that She even go for dinner or any of the other programs that still open. Alright. That... That's useful to know. We'll have to look at our messaging and see. But the the intent is that it you you define yourself as an a new participant. If you feel like you still could benefit from the programs then you are welcome to joining programs. I don't know I don't know if anybody from the secretary is here. I don't know if the if the tags are self appointed like or whether they end up on there. I I don't know if it's if you if people are... Do they get their own tags for new? Oh, yeah. Because Rich is wearing when. I know. They they hand them out and they say you don't have to wear it if you don't want to. Okay. They it out okay. Based on people who checked Okay. Great. new attendee on the list. And and just as a this is has nothing to new with people in the queue. I don't know Greg if you're in the room yet. I don't wanna say that. Okay. I I wasn't sure if they if I saw him in the back. So go ahead. Next in you. Hey. Siobhan I. Just wanted to say that I found the quick connections be event to make extremely useful. Both for myself and people seem to like it as well. So Yam, let's continue doing that. And making sure that more and more people care about it. So just a plus one for that. The the other thing was that I I research group along with chris Chris and we we often try to get folks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "who have never been to an idea of meeting to come and present? And this is useful for what we're trying to do, but One consistent feedback that we received is that the fact that the agenda is or the overall agenda for the Idea is only published like twenty days. Before the meeting, makes it really hard for them to figure out I mean, not only traveled, but the fact that they... When they have to wake up or they have to schedule this? As part of their overall week, like that makes it extremely hard, and we've had, like, several people drop out. Because of the fact that, you know, they can't do that on such short notice. I don't know if there's anything that who you know, we can do here, but that's some feedback that you received. Right? At aim. Yeah. I think the overall agenda is is not something I mean, I I think I mean, agenda scheduling is is really really really hard. Yeah. For the for the main agenda for the Is. For the working groups putting their own agendas is up I think we could probably all do a little better and I know I could. So Thanks. Note to self. Hi, Drew here. Just wanted to mention that the wiki page for outreach, have put in the chart, And Will send out a mail on the mailing list as well. Maybe after the site I was hoping to get more feedback in the site meeting about how we structure the various type of outreach that we do and some examples of the recent outreach. So within this community, if folks are aware of how we can improve that, Please reach out to me. And give me feedback, and this is ar key. Not my. Thank you. One other thing I didn't really emphasize that you know, for for folks that go all the way back to edu team days is that that is is meant to be open. Anybody it's an open mailing list and and We didn't do a very good job between London in this meeting, but the idea we have open meetings that people can participate in. My feeling being that we don't... If we don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "open it up, then we we can't get new people in to help us. And so we can't complain about not having new people in. So it... It's not a It's not a selective small group of people, feel free to join. But anyway next, jeff. So a thing that I've gotten is sort of site conversations this week. Was sort of red unexpected is there are people that much like we have our... What how we used to do the newcomers event where all the chairs who just hang around tables and, you know, eventually get of my people they're interested in you don't do that anywhere. People are started of looking for a flavor of office hours. You know, it was like went chat with somebody about, you know, your topic and have sort of a gathering space for this sort of thing. And Alright. We're all we're all very busy through the course that we don't know how we can actually fit something like this in, but there seems we need for it. Yeah. It seems to me that there there are more and more office hours being offered, but they're generally at the area ever and not at the working group level. But but that is an interesting point. There was a lot of discussion about The one you're talking about was that newcomers may greet, which used to be basic the big party for... Was sort of, like the social before the social. And and the frustration at the time was it was the social before the social for all the leadership get together and great people that haven't seen in the last several months. And so that was why the feeling was quick connections was more targeted to to new participants. But that would be excellent feedback for somebody to take to the leadership. Hi Andrew Olson meeting Id. So at one one five, I had quite number of interactions with newcomers, and I was getting a lot of kind of process questions on the rest of it. So this time around to show up the new participant instead and see if they were similar questions being asked. And I found it really, really useful to be there because there was a lot of good interaction"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "and a lot of process questions, a lot of questions about how things work kind of from beginning to end etcetera and the impression that I got from that is that interaction with chairs and Ads, etcetera. Does seem to be something that they appreciate and they do have questions, etcetera? And while the participant dinners obviously they're mixing amongst themselves, I think a forum where you've got a whole bunch of eight working group chairs or whatever. And then as a kind of one sort meeting maybe with thinking about doing, because I certainly found that I've got a lot of questions there that were easier to answer to a halt table of people, were getting the same thing then one on one in the corridors but that's just an impression. Well and this is just my brainstorming here, but perhaps if we did something and that wasn't on that first day when everybody's seeing each other. Then you'd be passed the initial greeting your old friends and and you'd be more willing to spend time with Like like, if you opened up the the dinner a little bit more, I don't know. It's okay. Just Yeah. It's it's possible. and who's next. So if I if I can just reply briefly to the topic at Pal, We do not have the hack that actually starts on Saturday And so that's our people usually catch up after not seeing each other for months. So I think in a way, trying to go back to the tables of the various areas of topics introducing people I think would work better this time than it worked before we had a Hack them. That that's a good observation. Yeah. Go ahead, Margaret. Margaret cohen from Payment Security. I think that one of the problems with newcomers is you know, we do train them in the process and we try to go, yay. We're so happy to hear. But it's very hard to engage in ongoing working groups."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "It can be very hard to figure out what the group is even doing right now? Because the charter are like from two years ago and there's milestones that have already passed it's obvious what the current work is. It's like a list of documents you don't know really what the status of any of those documents is beyond one big, like, it's individual or it's working group? Like, vince. And I wonder if there's... I don't know what the right answer is, but I don't feel like any amount of social stuff is going to help people engage in the working group. So I've been in other organizations where And I'm not suggesting we moved to this model, but we're like, there's actual membership in the group, and now that you're here, you're gonna vote and they usually actually have ways of bringing people up to date, in the group, like when they join, people meet with them and help them understand what's going on. And I wonder if there's anything we could do for that. Like like, forget a social, but maybe when people come in and they're gonna join certain working groups, we could I don't know whether it will be the chairs or somebody else but actually bring them up to speed on those particular working groups because I think it's very hard for people to engage. They end up sitting and meeting after meeting where they don't understand what's going on. They're in jokes Yeah. And it's very it's very hard to engage here compared to the other organizations that I've been to. So I I think one of the things is that you know, obviously, there's different working groups at different levels of maturity there at different points in their life cycle. So you know, I I also think that there are there are new participants who come here, specifically to do something. And then there is new participants who come here too. Be, you know, to contribute to the And they don't know what they're doing. And it don't know where they want to be or what they want to engage with. And I think those are two different sets of people that have different needs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "But, yes. I know we could do a better job of onboarding. I'm just not sure. What? You know, I we need great ideas for people to think about it suppose. Bob. Go ahead. Hi. Bob Hi. So I'm just trying to make this to be a rant. But I found that those newcomers leadership things before the social were extremely useful and productive. And I was very disappointed when they stopped. So I would strongly encourage whoever has control over this to put it back the way it was. The value of these face to face meetings is the networking you can do and being able to for me to be able to talk to other chairs the Ads and newcomers at the same time was really productive it I think and it was a net loss to stop that activity. Okay. Take that. Daniel you're gonna gilmore more. So I just wanted to reinforce what Paul said about the hack. I think the Hack is an incredibly useful opportunity. If you're a working group chair, and you are not showing up for the Hack, you are really missing out. The Hack found is a place that can help bring people in You can talk to people who are in related areas and make interest Them mean the work that's going on in your working group. You're using to show up and say, I'm, you know, I'm here for this. And even if all you're gonna do is come to the Hack and work on, you know, mass the drafts that you've got going through your working group, it's an opportunity for you to meet other people that are interested in and to introduce new people to your topic area and and bring them in. And we should not only be attending the the hack as chairs, we should be mentioning it on the mailing lists that we are active on and say, we will be here we will be doing that. Like, that's the place"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "you can have those conversations that people are talking about. Okay. Had My name's is Donald Lee Lake, future way. What a second Thing. What thing I wanted to mention was that people should look at Rf c four one four four. It talks about joining organizations and how to... And, you know, engage with them and stuff like that. Okay. Slide Hi. Pete Rose. So to margaret, I think the guides program actually actually is a good entry point for that. And I mentioned the chat room I would love it if the guides program didn't make me have to volunteer each time because I'm here, I'll be a guide. That's fine. And I'm pretty sure other people would default into it if if they were willing to be in the program. And having more of us as chairs and experience folks I happen to be paired up last meeting with men or two meetings ago, and it worked out great because it was... We happen to be in the same area and he was right on coming to meetings and getting involved in those particular things. I could keep him up to date on how to get involved in the specific groups he wanted. And if there aren't enough guides in a broad enough set of areas that makes it hard to match people up. Can be that introduced. And I think that's a little easier than a sort of a formal introduction to the group thing. And just to comment on Bob's thing. Although I was okay with that sort of broad chairs and newcomers together, it did tend to exclude newcomers from certain conversations because we would get all excited about stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "The the speed dating kind of thing if that could be expanded a little to have a little free time after the speed dating bit. To to make it a little more open socialization that might bring back the essence of what Bob's is looking for without bringing back the... Getting into a corner and talking to you know, chairs and and eighties only. Right. Next. Don't know which one of you said, do you wanna Oh, Alexander. I'm Alexander, and I was first in the context of onboarding new participants, An idea, I suggest we explore is to make a list of low hanging fruits issues, which are beginner friendly, such as maybe proofreading some text drawing some flow charts in some markup language and so on. So the idea is to have more experienced people think of what would be an easy task because a newcomer may not yet be experienced enough to see whether they are a good fit for a problem or not. Yeah. I think you could probably generalize that to ask working group chairs to think about things that you might need help with that would be appropriate for newcomers. And and and put those forward. Robert. Robert Sparks. So since the working group chairs have a very high degree of overlap with people that are participating in the guides program as guides. I really encourage you you capture any frustration you have with the whole experience like what pete just mentioned, as issues feature requests and the repository for the guides tool. That tool is also quite small. It's easy to understand. And it would be very easy to contribute to and since you're the people that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "are feeling the pain, you know, jump in and make it do what you want. Okay. So with that, I think I think this is has been helpful. I I'd like to remind everybody that we Well, first of all, Greg, did you make it in So to wrap up the this last one if there are anybody that's interested in helping with working their for, please contact us I'm just gonna put greg's two slides up here, and you guys can look at them later and then we will vacate the room. The first thing was the F chairs training. He gave us a number of updates on it last year. And you can see the number of registrations and the on demand classes are coming soon. The next slide is about the the wiki migration, and the bottom line is Track is going away very soon now. And everybody should know this, and I'm sure greg but have had more useful things to say about it. You have it. I'm assuming Robert, this is you from the last time it's not You're not new in the queue. Right? Okay. Just double checking. So on that note, we are one minute over if everybody could take your lunches and leave and keep your... Keep the room clean. And Well, I mean, if you're in here you can stay, but you didn't expect to talk for the whole time"
  }
]
