[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:42",
    "text": "yeah okay friends let\u0027s get started we only have 90 minutes and there\u0027s a bunch of things to talk about the blue sheets are going around Sara and tail are gonna be taking notes I assume you guys can be using ether pad Sara\u0027s at your plan - okay already there okay great okay so welcome again this is me daddy jonshorter it mature iron so let\u0027s just wrap the Tufts IT f-106 session not well I think you have been already familiar if not please read it out and maintain you have some links there you can click Anakin you can read on Emily\u0027s a time so this is this the agenda so we have some issues review I think we\u0027ll go through the github and then we have we have like Brian talk tech talking about Tufts architecture and interfaces and then Tommy will be an implementation so that way updates then we have one IT a plastic off we got some comments that we would like to converse to some conclusion what to do I think where our Aires has also like try to sale resolve the how try to come up with a solution like arteries of the issues and then we\u0027ll have some discussion on the mile because we have a couple of - attention to you and we have some plans for that one document status as I said there was like one document on the IPO plus last call so we have been on 80 follow up stays and we have Phillip doing the shepherding thanks for doing it and you have I think you have a quite a good experience looks like is this a fast shepherding of document okay so that\u0027s a good experience and then there was a fan interim but we cancelled it because we didn\u0027t find a much of things to discuss so we said like yeah let\u0027s meet on this meeting and there it here is how it looks like the milestones so we have like two deals and I think okay next slide so like I said in the there\u0027s not next slide oh you didn\u0027t update the slides I that\u0027s that\u0027s interesting okay will it\u0027s a surprise hold on a second you know what we\u0027ll come back to this at the end basically I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:43",
    "text": "have I drafted a schedule to get us from here to March with getting working group last call for the three drafts with some notional weeks for calls in timeframes for doing working group last calls and so ideally I wanted people that the authors and such to look at their calendars and see if they could support the schedule get a commitment from folks and we will hold on a second I gotta first I found the room and yes I beg your pardon Corey first I find the room and yes I commit to this this is a gang core is in that doesn\u0027t matter he\u0027s in that it\u0027s that much more meaningful I\u0027ve got the slide on my my laptop here hello that is an excellent question okay so here it is it\u0027s a it\u0027s kind of aggressive basically the basic structure is we try to do working group last call for a different document each month starting with the most mature right so we go arch then interface and implementation then in the subsequent month we figure that there\u0027s going to be stuff that comes out of the last call we have to do a Rev right and so when in December we work in group last call arch then in January we rev it and January we\u0027re working group last call interface in February we Revit again in implementation in February and then we rib it for March and then we do an interim call I\u0027m I\u0027m so this is I guess I need a little bit of feedback from the community is like well should we do the call you know what what\u0027s wrong with the call oh yeah assuming we will have stuff to talk about otherwise we we would be done now so I am I\u0027m I\u0027m gonna disagree Nagori I\u0027m strongly in favor of you know in call I think this is the right number of them I think we probably need to do to all this because January 13th is not great for me in February 10th I\u0027m not gonna show up at because this is not as interesting as the mountains are I haven\u0027t checked March 23rd yet but I think it\u0027s okay wait when when do we actually know first the IETF yeah but you know okay so well what I wanted to do is was pick a week and then doodle within the week so that we don\u0027t have to try to pick from across the whole month and so can we try to narrow that down now like so December 16th does anybody have a problem December 16th considering that a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:44",
    "text": "question yes so I like the idea of the calls yeah I just I understand the January February March ones because those are after working group last calls when we\u0027ve presumably received comments I don\u0027t understand the point of the first one if we haven\u0027t started a call do what\u0027s the agenda for that it\u0027s for things that we don\u0027t get resolved here today okay that might have to go into the other documents that are not yet in last call it\u0027s like we don\u0027t have to only discuss the the documents that have been last called in our interim meetings right we can talk about the other documents if there\u0027s stuff that\u0027s unresolved so they\u0027re kind of placeholders for now but that\u0027s one of the things I wanted feedback on or not I just wondered whether there actually won\u0027t I just think whether if we do architecture working group last call and with then we we try and revise it and we try and get good text we probably have it ready for about January the 13th or so and if we do implementation we do working great last call in February then so before you go I want to I don\u0027t know in the first thing you said you say it again Julie so I think the first okay I may be thinking exactly the same as Tommy but I\u0027m just not going in my head yet but um I think the UH the architecture call needs to be in January after we do working grit last call we get some feedback we\u0027ve done a detailed read through with our brains Rhys inked and and it\u0027s kind of almost there a book we just need to get it there and on the next one this or the one of the beginning seems to be like before we\u0027ve got this process in stat right and then there\u0027s will have to be one in MA racially you are making the same comment that Tommy did let me go sit down stop no no let me makers I don\u0027t understand if you have an objection yet let me try to explain my thinking the thinking is that the interim calls are not just to discuss last call comments but they\u0027re discussed open issues for documents that have not yet gone into last call the idea is to have a more frequent cadence than IETF meetings for us to talk about things that are unresolved right it doesn\u0027t have to be to respond to less call Clemens let me let me be a little bit more blunt I think that the January 13th beating is for the last call the February 10th beating is for the called the December 16th feeding is a forcing function to make sure that we like actually get off our butts and do the work because we\u0027re gonna assign a bunch of issues today and we need an intake we\u0027re gonna make them do for that call where that needs and and it\u0027s probably better to have a call so that you you you have to like so that we yell at each other for not having actually done the work that\u0027s what that calls for thank you yes that\u0027s I know you didn\u0027t want to say that as chair because that sounds kind of like you\u0027re like fish but I\u0027ll say it but when you when you look at the calendar right after December 16th becomes January first very quickly yes it does and so then there\u0027s two weeks before the next call and we\u0027re in that time period we are doing an interface working group last calls so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:44",
    "text": "we\u0027ve got to basically get those first two documents done good into the next few work weeks can I propose extremely selfishly that we push the January call one week and that we push the February call one week so because I can\u0027t make the February call it the can\u0027t recall I could make either of those two weeks but that also gives us the ability for those of us in you know who live in countries with like reasonable holiday schedules who actually do take time off over Christmas um like a lot of us don\u0027t come back until the sixth right like we disappear on the 20 mumbles and we come back on the sixth means you\u0027re not working on these documents on your vacation I can put you in touch with my family about that one they might be awake do you want to call so I\u0027m not seeing anybody else staying if the microphone is EV other people sort of thought about their calendars and whether you guys can support this like people who might be starting a new job or something Theresa today\u0027s I think odd I think I can do this yeah and I your author on the implementation document do you want to speak up on this before we it sounds like we\u0027ve got kind of a consensus on it or you could do it in jabber if somebody\u0027s looking at the that jabber there she is was a button somewhere yes hi just trying to check my calendar so the February 17 week is actually difficult for me is it is the whole wheat blocked I think that we\u0027re running out of weeks in February if we try to avoid Brian\u0027s yeah actually the whole week is a bit difficult so we started with February 10th and we and we ruled that out in February 17th and we rolled that out so we can go earlier later I suppose so the week of the if the Friday and week of February 17 is an option that okay alright why don\u0027t we just I\u0027m gonna jot that down while we yeah but we\u0027ve done that before I think that I think that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:45",
    "text": "well there\u0027s one there\u0027s one time window that seems to work for you know from Zurich to Simcoe okay whatever u.s. west coast any other loud gripes about this schedule here so we can move on this is one of these things where it\u0027s much easier to do it face to face than to try to do it online alright then okay gory these are these are weeks and we\u0027re gonna do except for we\u0027ll do the time for the last one but we\u0027re gonna do a doodle for the day on the mailing list so I guess what the minutes only need to say we\u0027re going to doodle for them really okay going first and I really like the idea of the schedule of pushing and getting the arch done cushion going the interface done I\u0027m slightly hesitant that implementation will arrive in February from previous experience just nothing to do with maturity of it but to do with the type of month ages I\u0027ve always had problems with February personally it\u0027s been slightly shorter than I expected and people stick one thing in the middle and the whole thing\u0027s gone I understand yeah so what would you be really upset if we try if we thought when we get to February whether we prioritize finishing in arch all the big ones I would for all these things I would prioritize completion over moving on because I want to get the completion and unless we\u0027ve got like some interlocking thing where we want to get the implementation experience and feed it back in I would definitely agree that that would be the way to go alright so we can figure that out in February there\u0027s not a big dependency but the implementation stuff can just follow because it\u0027s just a matter of writing great text all right I think this is this is close enough and we\u0027ll find out what you know is what it is okay now we need to switch the monitors again so we can get back to the slides [Music] I\u0027m sorry can I best render bibs and I suggest we start with security because I have comments on architecture that kind of depend on security good can we come in a little more on this edge will you head well at the expense of actually talking about technical stuff I realize it was a little late yeah so common plugins that that to me seems aggressive its intentionally aggressive "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:45",
    "text": "yes I was just too aggressive okay I mean at some point our students are going to graduate and disappear among other things and also we\u0027ve been we\u0027ve been sort of working on these documents for a couple years now so we should finish them yeah I mean we let me put it this way we\u0027re making up for some lack of aggressiveness over the past couple years yeah okay all I\u0027m suggesting is if do you want certain of the office to read the documents and comment sensibly and that timeframe is too aggressive okay I hear you so Phillip T\u0027s directly commenting on that I think the schedule is aggressive but doable at least for interphase and architecture I don\u0027t believe it I think it\u0027s too aggressive for implementation but we can at least try to get close to it right right so two aggressiveness on arm like as a weight I forget I\u0027m an editor of which of these architecture and interface right yeah both cool okay so with my editor hat on for those two documents I intend sort of generation of text to working group last call for architecture to be if there\u0027s an open issue on architecture that we can\u0027t find somebody to put text in today it\u0027s closed about it\u0027s closed on results it\u0027s like multics nobody cares enough to do it I\u0027m gonna do it for interface if we can\u0027t find people kind of by that December 16th call it we\u0027re willing to commit we\u0027re gonna type text over Christmas then it\u0027s like hey it was a neat idea it was cool we probably should have done something about it but we gotta move on great like so the perfect is the enemy of the good and your anything oh yeah yeah see we can actually see what\u0027s going on yeah so yeah I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s how I intend to run this with my editor hat on is we\u0027re closing stuff it\u0027s like the train is leaving the station because we\u0027ve had a year of not doing anything exactly I would like to be done I think I can\u0027t tell is Anna waiting - no I cut her off sorry Anna get back in line if you want to say something I thought you were in the queue I think so right thanks so hi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:55",
    "text": "guys max rank it from tio Berlin and I\u0027m just going to talk about our pipes implementation and mostly what we did at the heck of fun and so since Brock basically what we added our protocol and remote endpoint racing and frameless there are the big things that have been added interface election is almost done I think and mr. hopefully going to it quick at some point and so the framers did in our implementation now are a bit different from the ones that I specified not specified at an example in interface implementation sorry not interface and main difference is that data frame message when they arrive instead of when the application calls received that for us was just a choice to make but it\u0027s or not that interesting and it can do much more than just transform messages obviously and so thanks to Jake we also have multicast support interrupts so we can receive muriatic receive SM multicast streams so until Saturday or until today actually we thought we wouldn\u0027t need a anything API no Michael had we had discussion on the open floor case that we might actually do something and need something in APA but yeah there\u0027s an open plea request by Jake about how to do multicast for now and the way we do it is that the local endpoint if it is a group address on the local endpoint and we just assume it\u0027s multicast and then we require the application to specify in the transport properties that it is a unicast receive a unidirectional receive and then we on a listen call we can send out and join request and the application gets multicast packets and if it\u0027s trying to do Nate it will throw an error right so I guess the question would be if there\u0027s discussion on multicast probably issues that something the next thing one source in ASM is that counted for like I want to start in the SM group but because I\u0027m you\u0027re doing the SM model but I only have one source that\u0027s also okay as in aasmaan SSM our restrict the number of sources but I also have a single source a s7 groups well so I can\u0027t just choose except only one source is that Jake talk yeah yes so the proposed text regardless of whether there\u0027s one source or not you would be joining the the group using an ASM join and therefore if if the packets do get routed somehow to you then they would be so if somebody else sends to that ASM group you would receive it if you are if you join with an ASM this this it may be that this inter that this couples two things together that should not be coupled together "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:55",
    "text": "thank you that\u0027s nothing but I can now look at the text conference just to clarify as is with this API is it possible to send without joining a group you can well the join isn\u0027t explicit it\u0027s implicit so if you have a multicast group as a local address then the taps system will send to join okay so there have been implementations of multicast that send without joining okay okay right Jake again the the send doesn\u0027t require anything this is not a multicast operation this is simply a sent to a remote endpoint that has a group address there\u0027s nothing different about that than ordinary UDP for this is this is restricted to the receive as long as it\u0027s possible to send to a group chattering yeah you can send a group the other thing and it\u0027s been a long time since I fought about multicast so maybe I\u0027m misremembering there was some sort of sauce filtering features in some versions of multicast release it\u0027s yeah yeah you\u0027ve got the right flexibility to handle all the different rights Regan yeah if there is a remote endpoint then you filter by those addresses basically okay I\u0027m not sure that was only SSM but maybe I\u0027m misremembering yeah yeah okay nobody uses that as far as I\u0027m aware I\u0027ve never heard I did ask around I\u0027ve never heard of anybody using it it\u0027s like theoretically possible in the specs I I would be shocked if it works but generally like okay so on the endpoints today if you try to do an a normal socket and an issue the the sock up that you set your options are to do an SSM join or to do an ASM join and you do it by setting a sock opt and providing the EM rec or the the would see their own code that and Marcus or something I forget but the those are the only options that a normal host has today so in the same sense this API only provides those operations to do something different you\u0027re gonna have to like construct an IGMP packet that does something funny okay that\u0027s fine we should just document that that\u0027s that those features are not expected to work and we\u0027re not Spokane okay so that was the multicast only part of it what we introduced in plumeria order "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:55",
    "text": "hackathon explai we did Jake has a protocol right now a draft for protocol code ambi which is a way to check the integrity of multicast packets which creates an out-of-band TLS connection along the multicast receive so we implemented it as a framer and what we\u0027re doing is that under start initialization of the multicast connection object the framer also creates a TLS connection so there\u0027s two connections one is inside the frame and one is the connection exposed to the application and then anytime a packet arrives the multicast packet arrives the framer gets many failed by the framer gets manifests all the time from the MB generator from mu manifest generator and then it checks if the hash for that specific multicast packet is in the manifests and if it is it just returns the message itself like the multicast message it doesn\u0027t do anything to the message so the question kinda is is this a legitimate use of a framer because right now the text mostly says encapsulation encoding and message transformation but it doesn\u0027t do any of that it takes the message as it comes in and puts the same message out so if it should be a legitimate framer maybe at something to takes like also analyze or just change something about the text to make it clear that this is a legitimate use and if it isn\u0027t I\u0027m not sure why it shouldn\u0027t be basically Tommy Polly Apple so I mean I\u0027m not sure how we gauge legitimate having framers in our implementation I have definitely done essentially the same thing it is a like once you have that shape of thing it\u0027s very easy to do and it\u0027s very natural to do that so yeah I I think it is a natural outcome and I don\u0027t think we should prohibit I don\u0027t know if we do we need is it are you proposing text for that use case we\u0027re just gonna let it kind of happen right I\u0027m not sure like if it\u0027s because it\u0027s not interpolation encoding or transformation so and that\u0027s I like two things that get mentioned so maybe I\u0027d like something like analyze or something to do the tickets because it that maybe make it more clear that you don\u0027t actually have to do anything with the pic yeah so yeah if we can have some text you say now to include that use case that would mean good to clarify I thank you right and that\u0027s oh right that\u0027s not it and we also like fun about right now in the API it says like the frame object gets created once on the pre connection and it\u0027s really editor on the pre connection but it\u0027s not right clear what happens if you call isn\u0027t it because then you only have one frame object but the listen can spawn many connections and there would like the listener wouldn\u0027t really have an option to create new frame objects itself right because it doesn\u0027t necessarily know how to create them right but but how does it get him like in API probably something in interface and implementation to like explain how to do it yeah and that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:56",
    "text": "basically it that\u0027s the link send high competence um I I wonder that we don\u0027t have different very different views of what framers are magic to to to me a framer is a much simpler thing than that and maybe I maybe I\u0027m in the rough on what the consensus is yeah I thought it was it was it was passing and you said the architecture document was done well this is why I said I\u0027m not I thought they it was too aggressive tell me Akali so I think if you look at what the architecture does say for framer it is certainly smaller and a tighter definition of it and we have moved all the implementation details to the implementation documents or even the interface is the the thing I think that Colin is thinking of the simpler version to your point when you are playing with these you realize you can do more with it and it\u0027s it\u0027s an expansion point so I think once you start using it that way it potentially goes beyond the notion that we have in the architecture of a primary so I I would prefer to leave the definition constrained because that\u0027s all you need to do and I think these other use cases end up being maybe some other doctrine of how to describe you using them from but it\u0027s not really part of its it is it\u0027s an outcome of the way we build them more than a fundamental property so yeah mostly that I\u0027ll you know I\u0027ll answer the first question up here is this a legitimate use of framers with it doesn\u0027t matter all right like so the architectural document is designed to be sort of a framework for understanding the interface the interface document is designed to be as abstract as possible um the fact that framers are kind of the only real bit of implementer accessible extensibility that we\u0027ve put into the architecture because we need it but because of you know how framing and D framing works with a message based thing on top of street based protocols you can\u0027t get away from it it\u0027s going to be where all of the I don\u0027t wanna say abuse happens but they\u0027ve creative use innovation yeah abuse ennovation same same it\u0027s gonna be where OB innovation happens so like is it a legitimate use of framers who cares are you I mean thank you for asking the question um but you\u0027re also the one with your hands on the keyboard so like right running code "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:56",
    "text": "Trump\u0027s um rough consensus every time cool thanks : I think we care a little to the extent if there are going to be overextension points we should probably hint that there are likely to be such things rather than forcing everyone from the beginning to clutch rings into the architecture saying we we know they say this is incomplete and we expect implementations to grow additional stuff in the middle which is not necessarily framers but perhaps looks a little bit like them if you squint but we expect this to evolve would be a useful thing to say rather than just saying yes a framer when we know it\u0027s not really a sort of pledged extension that happens to fit in if you squint bit Philip teasel I would like to add upon doesn\u0027t say I think it would really be helpful to add at some points in the document where we see the extension cause I think everyone should go about this and make pull requests for that I explicitly say is see that for example framers there could be an extension point saying that framers allows certain protocol transformations and thus there would be a way to annotate that I think it doesn\u0027t have to be in the first revision but at least having this kind of there could be at this point at be added later on makes sense expects we\u0027re all talking about pull requests for their architecture document right not had not no all right okay so we\u0027re going to talk about the security document next write-up we have Anna wants to say something yes hi I just wanted to add I I think for the architecture draft we should avoid putting too much details into that one and keep it on the concept level you have a whole reasoning or thumbs up agreeing with you Anna okay good because this is actually something I noticed also when I read it the last time that maybe if anything maybe we have a few too much details in there because we whenever something you feature got added there was a tendency we want to mention it in the architecture draft but maybe that is not not necessary so yes good but then we all agreed okay thank you so we have a 56 minutes left in the session Phillip how much time do you think you\u0027ll need ah we want to go less than 30 minutes and depending on the discussion maybe also less than 15 minutes okay so maybe let\u0027s try to keep the discussion on point so that we can sort of try to get a plan together for our now aggressive schedule yes so I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "just being here at the shepherd of the document and in the last month\u0027s we had a working group last call we did I did the Shepherd ride ride up the idea review was done we got rivers from Canada and sectors that saying the document is ready we get an e Anna review okay and then we got it should not be published in its current form from to in or should not be published its cursory should not be published in its current form sorry by ekr and [Music] christian Bettina and this is the reason why we\u0027re discussing this here ah let\u0027s wrap up what the criticism roughly was so first its it started with this general skepticism against the tap side here so too ambitious pushes against implementations trends like quick is really integrating everything in the application while taps was trying to move that out again to replace make transport replaceable no matter what this is I think we need to briefly make ours up our minds whether we really want to iterate this argument over and over or whether we say okay this is approach to do these things it might work it might fail we just want to make the documents for if it works so on this point I would have a I would buy that argument a whole lot more if like quick wasn\u0027t actually turning a LPN into a protocol stack identifier so like I think we can like I mean too ambitious task yeah we had a couple of boss about this the first one was harder than the second one um it\u0027s working group um so if we\u0027re gonna have a line of people arguing with Decker and Christian who are in the room I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s productive yeah it\u0027s probably not I\u0027m just saying I think I think that we can safely move on to criticism - I agree basically Kyle rose Akamai the I think the the the criticism against against an API that some people might not want to use is it\u0027s something that will be solved by whether people use it or not right the when it comes to when it comes to security or safety I think those criticisms are warranted and I guess I\u0027m guessing that\u0027s what criticism too is and I think that\u0027s where we should focus our effort yeah Tommy probably definitely agree on that oh sorry you\u0027re in lying before Magnus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:01",
    "text": "ah there yah sorry Magnus so just to cut to the chase a little bit for people in the room we have published a new Rev I\u0027m sure you\u0027re about to get to this I think potentially as we go through these things I want to validate that this revision that we have done a the group thinks is a good idea but also that we think it addresses some of these things so just to kind of briefly quote from that well we\u0027ve clarified now in like an on goal section is to say it is not a goal to allow software implementations to automatically switch between different security protocols essentially say the scope of our tapsa fication of racing things is not applying to the security aspects and I you know hopefully this does address this concerned it\u0027s saying we\u0027re not touching your stuff okay Magnus thank you yes I just want to I mean make clear I mean for my as an ad here in this protective I just think that you need to it\u0027s I mean it\u0027s fine to push back against criticisms wait and with argument saying yes this is our task what we do what we have to be sure to do with cetera and of course these people who haven\u0027t been involved or maybe was at the boss and didn\u0027t like the outcome with the Citroen that\u0027s I mean that\u0027s not nothing position discusses as Tom Thomas yes state is like okay clarify a bit to scope when it helps that\u0027s good but otherwise it\u0027s fine to push back that\u0027s just but want to say so we don\u0027t need to you need to comment and answer things but you don\u0027t need to address necessarily yeah thank you thank you in Crete t-shirt so moving on to the second criticism first security protocols are special and saying security probably not but must be integrated deeply into the application and must not be automated or raised in sepsis and I think with your revision you already address the second point my personal opinion is you could also have argued that there are use cases for that but that\u0027s the choice of the authors and I can definitely say it\u0027s available choice and said transferring network security a fundamentally different yeah somehow they have to be integrated somewhere and which steps we are acknowledging that they\u0027re part of the stack and that they\u0027re not always somewhere outside the stack and some special at ons historically they have been but I think the time that we can go without is over and therefore taps has to integrate that and I think at least for my reread of your changes you\u0027re pretty you\u0027re addressing these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "points pretty clearly and I would just ask the room whether there\u0027s different opinions on that Kyle Rosa Akamai so the I don\u0027t know how many people read the new draft but we added a goals and non goals section at the beginning and the non or I don\u0027t know if it was the non goal but a non goal was to race different security protocols or assume that that a security protocol any security protocol that a tap system might choose would provide some magic you know fairy dust or whatnot that would make your application magically secure we\u0027re instead making it clear that we need the we need implementations applications rather to explicitly choose a security protocol that you know that fulfills their requirements as far as security goes right so it\u0027s it we\u0027re making it much clearer than I think the doc was before that we\u0027re not trying to erase the security protocols against each other um having this now the question is whether this needs reflection in the at the interface draft later I don\u0027t want to discuss this now but I just want to put this on the stack for for the issue discussion so the other criticism is its security work outside this sec area I can definitely say yes it is somehow but what other choices do we have so asking another area to just do the work for us it\u0027s just difficult and therefore I think we have enough expertise and it makes sense to say okay we did this in the other scope perhaps we should have consulted them more but I think it\u0027s not really a point for long discussion now do you think as an author so I think this criticism mostly applied to us giving very detailed descriptions of the security protocols and like cryptographic details and we he chose to basically delete this from the from the draft because it was giving the impression that we are trying to give like a comprehensive security analysis of these protocols and we chose that we will not attempt to make this comprehensive analysis but instead applications that choose a protocol have to go back and treat like the original RC or whatever documentation of the security protocol and then make a conscious choice of what the security properties are and be aware of limitations and we cannot do this for like a number of security protocols in this one draft and so we took this out and so I think the short address the comments Spencer I think Magnus may have been in front of you all his life yeah so but yeah I I don\u0027t see a problem I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:03",
    "text": "mean working groups outside of security obviously need to work on security related to the protocols etc so it\u0027s it\u0027s I don\u0027t take that first or anything I think and I think Teresa\u0027s comments maybe it\u0027s more spot-on for what what issue was singer so and I I haven\u0027t read the new version yet so I haven\u0027t figured out if if you removed too much or not but but let\u0027s see okay did you have more okay it\u0027s not Spencer Dawkins and what Teresa said about pulling out their detailed descriptions is brilliant because it was not super easy for the transport people to agree on the transport trade-offs back and for you know characterizations and trans in and in trade-offs and things like that back in the day when taps was starting so that\u0027s the right answer having said that former area directors can be blunt this is chartered work and it was discussed within the isg when I chartered it period Thank You Spencer Chris yeah Chris wooden I think we need to resolve this by just removing basically all of the fluff from the document and I think we can just move forward with the new stuff I\u0027d also like to comment like Magnus said like quick is arguably probably should have been done maybe in the security area it\u0027s done that\u0027s moving right along okay um yeah the last criticism is that the document is a mixed bag of things which is somehow true for transfers so for mean set this was a split of documents now it\u0027s one document I think if we get more criticism on that we might want to change or we might want to decide to split the document again but as now for the rework most of the security and security analysis or security feature spotting has been removed I don\u0027t see the reason for that anymore and to clarify that you\u0027re saying you don\u0027t see a reason to split them yeah several documents okay yeah me neither please keep them in the same document and let\u0027s move it forward Chris would Chris okay Gouri first exactly one document much better to have these together okay so I think we are out I\u0027m out of discussion points and with cleanly seemed to agree that most that the edits Mosley\u0027s at least try to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:07",
    "text": "address these issues the question is how do we continue so I have a suggestion okay sorry a quick chair interrupt here so one of the roles of the Shepherd is to work with commenters to get feedback on the resolution of their comments so I think a typical next step would be for you to summarize or maybe the with in collaboration with the authors to summarize the changes send a pointer to the new diet meant to Christian and Ecker allow them to respond to the changes and then we work with our area director on making a decision on how to proceed after that these are informative comments we\u0027ve responded to it it sounds like people have given a lot of thought to making changes that are responsive to them but I think that giving the comment or a chance to make sure that we understand their concerns correctly is is typical yes Thank You Erin for that part and I would also request because of the rather large amount of changes I would be glad if someone beyond the authors would actually review the new version and say does this work for the working group etc still the committee can we get a volunteer Brian has volunteered thank you Brian the Shepherd I expect you I don\u0027t hear you I\u0027m already warranted for that yes so I wanted to ask the chairs is due to this change since we did go through working group last call are we okay do we need to go through that again or are we okay essentially asking the whole working group to please review it as we are going forward with it and have specific people look at it yeah I think that this is this is you know my sort of opinion as chair and odd can Wayne if he wants is we didn\u0027t know working group last call it got that feedback we\u0027ve done ITF last call we\u0027ve gotten that feedback it\u0027s like each time you incorporate feedback you don\u0027t have to start back from square zero so I think we\u0027re in a process of continuous refinement I think it you know we should make sure the the working group gets notice like a summary of what the changes are and it can encourage them to give another look at it we\u0027ve got at least one committed reviewers I think that\u0027s sufficient III think I agree with that we I mean now we are discussing here and it\u0027s meeting and then we have some volunteers working on working on the changes so I think we\u0027re fine yeah that sounds Chris what that sounds great if this were just the reduction in content I wish we could just move it forward but because there\u0027s this new bit about what the interface is to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:07",
    "text": "applications which is sort of different from what we had before it\u0027s like rephrased a little bit differently having folks like Brian and particulars that were working on the implementation or the API Draft would be really great and having those reviews before we move forward with you know for some definition move forward yeah I think I think yeah from my perspective you\u0027re gonna have basically two weeks to comment review these changes and and I mean I\u0027m hoping that you also that you manage to get feedback from a Korean and a Christian in that time frame because that\u0027s roughly where I mean I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna have an ISDN call within the next two weeks and everything it\u0027s two weeks until it so I will see how it looks next week and then see the side of mine scheduling for dynasty okay so that this these were non-blocking comments right there\u0027s not discuss on the draft at this time is that right Magnus no this is i flossed cole comments and we need I need two story for say I need to know that we have addressed or these consider those comments etc and and that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing now and that\u0027s why I got it we need you at least I would like to see some feedback from occurring christian on this because they were the main main people otherwise it\u0027s i think you managed to dress those etc but it\u0027s and and therefore i also give the working group the time because the change is to review this before it goes in front of their history and they make a decision so okay great thank you thank you thanks Phillip I folks in the room take a look at how much fun it is to shepherd when these drafts because we\u0027ve got three more opportunities coming ok so then next item is Brian and [Music] the open issue reviews so we have labels got it yes yes yes yes architecture is it is it a multiple select thing do I have to unselect yes I do alright well we\u0027ve been talking I think Corey\u0027s got a guilty conscience what while Brian\u0027s work and what he\u0027s doing and the change in the security document is kind of fairly large in terms of text change yes yeah like people in this room have a look at it quickly to see whether it really is the same thing that we wanted I think he probably is but he\u0027d be nice to have told the working group such I think he says the same stuff I\u0027m not complaining but I\u0027m just saying there\u0027s a lot of text change we should look at it and give encouragement to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:07",
    "text": "chair that we all support it if it turns out it\u0027s been long enough since I\u0027ve seen this thing that I forget it so I\u0027m just gonna be looking at it with new I\u0027m not gonna look at the change and you\u0027re gonna look at the document with new eyes and figure out what the what the situation is yeah so Brian as we discussed on the list my personal goal here is to make sure there\u0027s an owner for each of these two either driver to closure or remove it all together great so we have number 45 we\u0027re gonna were the oldest one first Wow one digit issues just came from quick so this is you do digit issues still Tommy I\u0027m making you feel guilty enough to just go write the text for this like I mean like I think we know what you\u0027re clicking it and I call you see what we great we had a pretty long discussion about this also be nice to get back in 2018 helping on some of these things right so if we scroll down wow this is referring to things that we delete Lee added in and deleted yeah a lot of this is like we\u0027re not gonna do it we\u0027re still not gonna do it we\u0027ve already done post London yeah yeah so we\u0027ve already done various pull requests for it we just never fully closed it okay it looks like the last date we have on here is comments we had from our side meeting in March yeah about just rewording so I think this is something we can we try to get done this week okay together we\u0027ll sit down and do it wordsmith it um can you can you assign me to this one as well go up to the top Bri Trammell with two L\u0027s yeah brick Ram yeah which is no no click it again click it again click it again there we go good yes fine now click somewhere else and it\u0027s gonna take a while and there you go okay computers how do they work okay okay um yeah so yeah then go back this is stupid does anyone know how to go to the next issue or the previous issue in the list that you came from does radar do this to have like the you know go me through my yeah okay all right you know what I\u0027ll Drive let\u0027s watch people learn how to use a Chromebook alright wow this is slow who who who built this operating system oh wait no I accidentally do API and okay sleep oh this is so painful can we actually plug my machine into the is there a give it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:31",
    "text": "using your spot in [Music] all right so labels architecture labels API Wow looks like a Chromebook all right um so architecture privacy and security considerations ready for tax yeah Krista this one has been ready for text for a very long time I think there\u0027s like 30 pings to me on this yes you there are um we should just sit down this week and do it yeah so yeah on Friday let\u0027s do it all right I\u0027m Friday correct great it will happen on Friday excellent that is a sign to Chris I can\u0027t oh right define the server-side equivalent of racing this somehow this is ready for text even though I have no idea how the hell would do it the PR from yeah from PR number nine oh no that\u0027s that\u0027s a PR from Teresa Owens and coke oh I see great listening a multiple interfaces address it by default need fees best buys that I think for architecture all we need to do is put like a line of text in there yes for interface we probably need to put a line of text in there right it\u0027s like you\u0027re not really racing anything you\u0027re just listening on multiple things and like whether or not one of those two things like injects delay for some reason is up to that I don\u0027t think we should suggest to people that they do that right so there\u0027s a line of text in each doc and it\u0027s a sign to Tommy and callin and callin is confused well I\u0027m frequently confused I\u0027m wondering and of course I have read all these issues three recently and wouldn\u0027t care it relates to the rendezvous stuff thinking okay we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:37",
    "text": "may need to think about this a little bit more to make sure the run it\u0027s we\u0027re not closing off the rendezvous stuff which we know needs work rate let\u0027s punt on this one it\u0027s still assigned to the two of you if we don\u0027t get a chance to talk about that this week then let\u0027s try and do that before the next call no ha ha the back button works API needs a way to handle start TLS this is assigned to me even though it\u0027s still marked discuss this Tommy now actually this is this is free more abuse yeah this is another things why frame as a critique ray well I think that I think that this discussion is actually what drove us to make the framers bigger and then we made the framer smaller again I as the owner of this issue and inclined to close it without further close it with a shrug or assignment Jonathan ok but so you\u0027re saying that there will not be a way to for a taps using thing to do start TLS in a way that you know that\u0027s not what we\u0027re saying okay what we\u0027re saying is that there won\u0027t be a way for taps to abstractly and generically represent an interface for defining start TLS like semantics at a layer other than the application layer you can use a framer to hack it but we\u0027re not going to put a a protocol stack mutation hook into the architecture because start TLS is a stock mutation right right yeah I mean this was sort of I used as a sort of like an instance of things that need to do stack mutation rate and what I would say is that start TLS is an application sorry and WebSockets is an application right it\u0027s a the application modifies a stack and that\u0027s a problem but taps is more taps is more important doing stock selection at connection time than it is at mutation time and you could possibly have an implementation specific thing this is by the way this stack is mutated all to this other stack which is actually kind of implicit right all http/2 connections that look like they might have a WebSockets in point at them or mutate of all the WebSockets taps doesn\u0027t need to know it\u0027s not HTTP to also do connections are probably hopefully it will be a two people on one conduction spending what what server does yeah right so but this is all but this is all things that need to get bubbled up the app tap so absolutely shouldn\u0027t be down in that space yeah unless we want to reconnect it which we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:37",
    "text": "don\u0027t right taps is focused on the API looking down and lot of the confusion is because we\u0027re talking about concepts that happen within the implementation so tell me Paul here probably Singapore it to the point like this issue right now is labeled with arc and API and I certainly don\u0027t think we need text in the architecture for this and with regards to the API what we did with the framework essentially modify the taxes that we pushed the details of how you do dynamic modification into the implementation yeah and I think what is there is sufficient to do it the only caveat there is that the implementation unlike the other ones is informational and so it doesn\u0027t have any normative text saying that your taps implementation must give these hooks to let people do start TLS I think in practice they will but that would I almost argue it\u0027s a follow-on document that maybe we should start looking at standardizing implementations of protocol stacks and having like interoperable ones that we have defined with yang models as secondary activity after we get the chord arguments done yes you can do start a less than our API so it works so everything\u0027s good 2:49 is now closed do we need a terminology section and architecture assigns to the entire work and actually if we scroll down I think the last question on here is like now it wasn\u0027t this one like we thought we were done though it\u0027s needs confirmation why did he decide Gauri you opened this do you think we need more terminology than we have me reopened it my opinion is that essentially the the back half of the document is terminology and definitions already and we don\u0027t need another section ok this was me I mean this was connected to another comment because it was sometimes a little bit hard to understand this term these terms when they show up the first time because they were not well defined but now we have a little bit more this overview section so I think that actually fulfills the same class time ok it was just like closing it while Bryan\u0027s closing it I promise to do a very detailed read through this with no prior understanding to see whether we define everything so a solution that\u0027s breath and you\u0027re gonna open a whole bunch of new issues what\u0027ll be great yeah tabs architectural review two notes 25 March by Gauri let\u0027s do that this week there\u0027s no need to to talk about that vertical stacks that are not equivalent have no space in our framework only protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:39",
    "text": "stacks work will be safely raised trees even to talk to this one a little bit yes already architecture document before coming to this meeting and I was kind of confused what we actually consider equivalent I think we talked about this before but in the architecture text is not really clear so one interpretation is that if our application doesn\u0027t space if I what it needs like it says reliable ignore like I don\u0027t care if it\u0027s reliable or not then TCP and UDP can be equivalent and then the architecture says this is fine and it says it\u0027s not fine like there\u0027s two different places where we talk about this looks like phil has an actual specific remedy to this yeah which is what PR 327 is all about did we land PR 327 like a month ago or I mean we either we ever landed or reclosed it because it\u0027s not the one open PR we have right now and this was a change to the API doc it\u0027s okay we just needed to go do some architecture cleanup will we\u0027ll sit down and and take your suggestion hold on I need to find them just okay Oh max franca just real quick we had a lot of discussion on the mailing list during Montreal just to make sure so people know there\u0027s more than just an issue okay so the basic case was saying that if something matches that criteria selection properties specified by the application it\u0027s considered equivalent so if you--if if it\u0027s not so TCP and UDP can be equivalent if the application does doesn\u0027t care about any properties of the transport but this but this is clearly not a problem of taps but a problem of an application just not specifying what it wants ready so the real question is is if the if the application specifies something stupid that\u0027s not our problem right it is up to the implementation the implementer is to decide whether or not they want to be permissive or restrictive on that yeah right yeah there\u0027s defaults as well right like so and pretty much everyone is going to have their default be yeah here you get TCP because that\u0027s probably what you meant yeah so I think we should assign somebody for that and then also another thing that\u0027s why I wanted security discussed first so right now equivalent says oh and it needs to be like the same transports and the same security protocol and yeah someone needs you assigned yeah and actually because and I would say so please add that note on security in the issue and I\u0027d say since you have a lot more context on security than I do that it\u0027s it\u0027s probably actually that was that was almost a joke assigning you when you said someone should be assigned "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:39",
    "text": "but I think you\u0027re actually the right person to do it so there so I guess I\u0027d have is our HTTP 1 1 and HTTP 2 or I should give you 2 H 2 B 3 equivalent yes but just because we say they are well because they mutate to each other but I mean so obviously it\u0027s one of those some can do multiplexing and some of them can\u0027t so why are they equivalent if the application hasn\u0027t asked for it then yeah then it it doesn\u0027t matter right like you can you can have a multiplexing protocol stand into an on multiplexing protocol right right I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s how upgrade works so uh looking through this again I think Phillips point that it\u0027s mainly point one that needs clarification of text is absolutely correct because the other points are much clearer in saying that like you both things must offer the transport services as required by the application yeah and so essentially you must also have the same application features such as multiplexing as required by the application if you don\u0027t require them the fact that h2 has multiplexing you don\u0027t care about doesn\u0027t matter so in any documentation could even choose to say oh we don\u0027t have multiplexing so we make a connection pool of TCP connections and use this pool for multiplexing this would also be considered equivalent so events versus callbacks for security relevant asynchrony oh yeah so this is basically the architecture talks about events but then the interface talks about events and callbacks and it uses events for things that happen asynchronously and callbacks for things that happen because the security Association event happened great and the the should we explicitly specify this so it\u0027s not confusing and I think we should actually have both because a callback is different than an event a callback is a hey I yeah yes right yeah an event is something that doesn\u0027t have a context that you pass to it and a callback is and callbacks are very common sort of in the like api\u0027s that provide security that we\u0027re going to be building on top of um yeah there\u0027s a lot of yes there\u0027s a yeah I think we just I think I put a ready for text tag on this and I think I was right oh no I did not but let\u0027s do that now and I\u0027ll assign myself since ah thank you good up labels ready for text sign yourself then one bin is me okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:39",
    "text": "so I\u0027ll just write that yeah Chris would thank you please keep them separate yeah treating everything as an event has led to like very bad API in the past that has bitten me personally many times yo cool yeah so the problem is right now is like we keep them separate in the API and in the architecture we just sort of like don\u0027t say anything and that was what was confusing right like we\u0027re not talking about blending them together we\u0027re talking about like raising it to a this is an architecture level thing and it\u0027s there for reasons right and that\u0027s what I\u0027m gonna do yeah competency yes I agree be careful how you phrase this because both events and callback have lots of different meanings to lots of different people with different programming language is operating systems yeah let\u0027s avoid confusing people yep I think we I think we will not be successful in avoiding confusing people because people it turns out are extremely confusable but we will try ok so we\u0027re done with the architecture if you scrub sometimes you tell me how much time do you need for your presentation because we have like 20 minutes so we have a lot of issues yeah and almost all of them are yours that\u0027s yours it\u0027s closed the protocol selection that is future work which we\u0027re just going to go ahead and close so tell me it\u0027s still waiting come on almost time in need for us to descend here we\u0027re gonna skip the ready for text because well Tommy I know you\u0027re gonna rate text and then Jake is gonna rate acts a geek you actually have written some text for that you have a pending PR and um grace is gonna write text and write okay we\u0027ve already got we already talked about that one property for address privacy telling me oh do you want to talk about this one Tommy this seems pretty straightforward yes just do it this one\u0027s ready for text and more expressive multipath transport property so but for the private for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:44",
    "text": "specifying my private stuff we need to make sure that is visible to the rendezvous stuff yeah so cuz I did that with us right so a private and rendezvous is gonna be difficult no yeah yes yes but we look at what what about si si did great okay we just need to make sure it\u0027s visible so make sure it\u0027s tagged with forum to view some house remember this says it\u0027s ready for text Tommy you put that label on it this is more expressive multipath transport property you\u0027re you\u0027re actually vet okay cool failure of unsatisfiable configurations I don\u0027t agree that that\u0027s actually a thing that we want to do right like so yeah it it\u0027s up to the implementation when it checks for so we can close it so this is this is basic about specifying when the system makes the choice that you handed it a bunch of constraints that it can\u0027t satisfy and it\u0027s you know whether or not the system decides to fail before or after it you initiate is an implementation detail right that\u0027s the PES notified the Knox long as the personified the issue I also get exhausted okay I agree should be closed but I think there\u0027s a minor yeah clearly implementations may find better like interoperability across applications using different systems if they do have it failed later as we\u0027ve said here because you could imagine that something that on one platform is unsatisfiable condition is satisfiable on other platforms and so it\u0027s kind of a weird assumption to make but it doesn\u0027t matter yeah unsatisfiable now an unsatisfiable later not necessarily the same thing weighted which is we not wanting in an implementation to be able to sort of create a precondition hold on to it for a while and then at some point later try and initiates it even though it may not sit well so one thing one thing that might happen there two things that could happen right you could end up with a path that you can use a transport protocol on the stack on that you couldn\u0027t before or you could install a loadable kernel module that gives us CTP support and I think that we probably want the implementation to UM handle the first one gracefully and you get extra credit points if you handle a second one gracefully but we don\u0027t expect it and in either case I think this is like this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:44",
    "text": "not a um this is not something that we need to specify at the API level right like so when the thing fails doesn\u0027t need to be part of the contract the API does currently specify that there were two ways it can fail it can either you know return an error when you try to instantiate the thing right I would like unreliable UDP or no but that works I would like unreliable TCP right that works too but it\u0027s a hack right I know you built it it\u0027s awesome [Laughter] but we have to wait for the install the loadable kernel module event to happen right yeah so yeah we\u0027re moving on um clarification on queued receives you Tommy you were nominated to write this by Michael because you probably already have a solution for this because if you don\u0027t then people are complaining to you because it happens quite a while so so in volts will assign himself and then unassigned himself which is like some like hey let\u0027s do this together I was miss clicking and then things keeping track of the history of Miss clicks so this is so I think this is good and I think Tommy do you know what to do here yeah I I have a theory on why the last comment from Max probably probably is a non-issue but I think that is just something to take off and settle because we\u0027re almost done here we are like we are getting default values yeah yeah yeah default values default values oh it\u0027s how much time do you want fear for your thing this is very quick it looks long so this is just me copying everything because Corey said we should talk about defaults and after looking at the long list there\u0027s only one thing that he took an issue with and I guess that\u0027s gross it\u0027s having a short discussion about oh yeah okay okay everything else he was fine with [Music] parallel use of multiple paths default prefer yeah I think do you want to default ignore or default avoid I think we want default ignore okay yeah so there\u0027s there\u0027s text here that basically makes a generalization this will improve performance achieving greater throughput which is not supported by the research it\u0027s not supported by the research in situations where they were trying to actually make it work on unfavorable pounds and it\u0027s certainly not supported by the research when one of your paths that you\u0027re going to get your axe across is actually a tin can so I think this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:48",
    "text": "default ignore does anyone disagree okay so we literally are typing more text we\u0027re interacting more with github than we will with the editor to make this happen but good yeah I\u0027ll do it I\u0027ll do the easily sorry Michael I can I can I can I can I can aside you a hard one you know what you know what we\u0027ll do this one together all right we\u0027re good hey that\u0027s me like I do some stuff go back go back we\u0027re down to ten minutes and we\u0027ve actually finished the the architecture and API scrubs and I think that\u0027s a that\u0027s a pretty good I feel pretty good about that achievement all right thanks a lot so in our last 10 minutes just going over the implementation document so I will want to go through some of the issues but first I do want to refresh people on what we\u0027re doing here because we actually have gotten a fair amount done in the recent a couple months and I think it\u0027s the right direction and so it should make us a little bit more optimistic about actually getting this document done in our aggressive schedule yeah so recent changes we updated the terminology for our API mappings this is mainly thanks to Michael for going through and using kind of the official names that we came up with for what are the transport features and actually saying hey by the way remember these other documents we did so all of this taps API actually uses those mappings and defines those so I think that was a really strengthening thing it shows that we actually learned something so whoo we also added text for defining our mappings for SCTP so again thank you very much for writing that and then we also scrubbed the terminology to make sure it matches what API has become I think a lot of what\u0027s going to remain for this document is that type of work of just aligning it with the others and making sure that it\u0027s cohesive set so we also got some error reasons appendix "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:49",
    "text": "that was I think for max so thank you for doing that I moved the message framer over from API into implementation so that\u0027s where we stuff our start TLS hacks so that\u0027s good we have I think it was from Phillip we got some text around pooled connections and then we have a start on referencing existing implementations I think we want to fill that a little bit more but essentially say this is where we got this background from I think that is appropriate for this document and it will just want so essentially anyone who has been working on this I know we have PI taps we have our implementation we have the work that was done in neat exactly and I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s other work that we want to highlight from the post sockets efforts when Brian and you\u0027re doing with students but anything there that we want to add in please do that in the next couple months yes how would you see that added I mean what do you use thinking of so there is a section that was added in there that kind of lists the implementations and I think just kind of saying yeah this is the work they did this is the scope of the types of racing they did how they expose the API of useful so read implementation other paragraph or something to that blob yes fill out that blog that\u0027d be great thank you so I wanted to just kind of get a slide out here and you can you know we can go offline and do this but just when you zoom out to just the kind of outline of the document of what we\u0027re doing the goal is to be very parallel to the lists of things that we have in architecture and an API and just saying here\u0027s how you implement these things and let\u0027s get into the nitty-gritty of it so we have you know what are these objects how do we do connection establishment I think this is the biggest section with all the racing work we have sending/receiving data that includes frame we\u0027re now connection management connection termination caching and then that last section is the specific transport protocols and this is where we go and we use the formal mappings that we\u0027ve defined previously in taps say and here\u0027s how these things all play out we just we discuss different ways of doing it of scattering those mappings throughout the document or having them all aggregated in one place and what we ended up with is deciding that we want them in one place so that if someone is going and implementing TCP in their taps implementation they can see I here\u0027s how I do that one they can focus on that protocol if you have other opinions please write an issue speak up John thanks my only concern is that this is an informational document and that field that part feels normative to me yeah mappings okay it\u0027s interesting point I I\u0027m not sure how normative we can get with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:49",
    "text": "mappings because the different implementations could choose to interpret things differently that could be work that we want to do in future documents of trying to have like again interoperable yang models are these things yeah Gauri first I think I think the mappings are more UPS they\u0027re still abstract they\u0027re not concrete so yeah it makes it not normative to me okay Michael also +1 I mean it\u0027s just a reference back to the RFC that has two functionality to say you could use that to implement that okay so it\u0027s it\u0027s explaining something more Jonathan jorah yeah I mean I sort of disagree because I mean the fact that you know clone on TCP means open a new connection or as clone on messy tv-channel means a new channel and not a new connection is kind of fundamental you know that if you disagree on what those things mean then they\u0027re you know not doing this they\u0027re not doing the same thing and as an implementer I need to know what happens when I call these KPIs or otherwise they\u0027re just you know don\u0027t mean anything yeah I get that point that makes sense Brian did you want to comment on that um so I kind of like the fact that the implementation draft is informational I do too like I like it a lot and I think that what we\u0027ve bubbled up here is something that needs to come back we did such a good job of closing all the API issues but I think this might be an API issue that we essentially say hey look certain transport protocol stacks have this feature and this clone thing I think we need to kind of bind it a little bit more tightly because because Jonathan\u0027s right but I don\u0027t want to do it here the other option we have because I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s really API as well is to split them out and we\u0027ve talked about this before of saying these mappings of taps interfaces to specific protocols that we\u0027ve defined elsewhere are separate documents okay and it\u0027s almost like a registry of it yeah and those normative and we essentially just split this chunk out of the document and we I like that let the core three documents go and then we potentially talk about yeah bringing in Jess Cove of the Charter yeah damn formal mappings and then it allows us to have a template on which we can do formal mappings for quick as it continues to evolve yeah I like that a lot so we may want to open an issue to kind of D scope texture so let\u0027s let\u0027s take that to the list of what I think needs to be a little bit more discussion about that because it\u0027s like hey another document but yeah okay great so the conclusion is like you were gonna check on the yeah I think we want to have an issue and also a thread about it yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:51",
    "text": "one common and it\u0027s a I hear a lot of people saying already like taps so complicated and like that the reason why I don\u0027t want to use it right and taking the more concrete stuff out of here and delaying it further might actually give the wrong impression so I think that we should have this discussion all the lists there\u0027s more time doing yours yeah so I just wanted to highlight what we do have is issues right now some of these are cross listed so we already have the PO crest for multicast stuff that\u0027s great this is the issue just to finish filling out the implementations where I talked about that so please do that this is going to require all of us to help structure is essentially what we just discussed and I think this is the kind of the one niggly bit that\u0027s left open we\u0027re working on the privacy considerations like the one last one we want to highlight is kind of this proxying stuff we had mentioned that you yeah we you still have 30 seconds left so we have yeah thank you thank you so we do have the issue around specifying how much we do proxies we do have this I think we close this at this point but I tom was a sign I think he talked about doing stuff on this I I don\u0027t think he\u0027s here or yeah so he\u0027d been assigned to help look at some stuff about we essentially do have text about what you do with proxies we don\u0027t have any text about what you would do with tor but I think we can leave that out okay great so let\u0027s close that that\u0027s the one I wanted to get confirmation we can close boom done all right so I think the main thing out of this is we should have a good discussion on the list about the concrete mappings yes so the time that we\u0027ve arranged is Friday morning like essentially the site meeting session time like the 8:30 to 10:00 on Friday we can try to get a yeah yeah I could even can I open my new issue so we don\u0027t have time this opening like when while I was reading transports right I notice a very little about is yeah do we need to say more about this should I put an issue in please file an issue on TLS repo I mean no this is complicated I mean you were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:51",
    "text": "you\u0027re in quick this morning this is complicated this can be this is a transport a specific option that you want to use potentially so the problem the problem is is that a LPN is a stock identifier that the stewards of LPN do not understand is a stock identifier and will probably violently resist I\u0027m just you\u0027re the closest thing we have a security guy right so it\u0027s your fault and I get the sense they will violently resist being told that even though it\u0027s true so that\u0027s a bigger Longer uglier discussion we can file an issue on our issue what\u0027s our answer for people who say like I want to use tests and I want to use Le PN and I need an interface for it what\u0027s the answer so if we look at the way that we have it in our implementation I think with the others you have a protocol specific option that when you configure the protocol TLS you configure a Opa Opa and is defined only for the scope of TLS and none of our API or architectural documents give like saying this is API that exists only for this specific protocol and the architecture specifically says like that\u0027s not a thing that you do in the generic apps interface that belongs to the protocol specific options the implementation Jeff could maybe mention it but we don\u0027t go into the details of TLS mappings there so maybe this is another document maybe we have in our split off normative documents about how you map TLS you say you offer this option one so one thing we could do maybe to solve it is to use that as an example because we have some examples and then it would be clear to anyone reading it I think that would be great I\u0027m still asking should I open an issue yes that\u0027s the minute show me Ria\u0027s gonna open an issue thank you to our minute takers who worked overtime thank you and of folks who want to participate in the discussion further which will show up Friday morning at 8:30 and the room to be revealed and I was here to sit in and see what\u0027s going on in this transfer area stuff which I don\u0027t know anything about and "
  }
]