[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:38",
    "text": "Well, you're tilting, a slightly tilted there Hello, hello, can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you Thank you for more widescreen on the video feed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:47",
    "text": "Hi everyone, this is Charles. Can I see you in the room? hear me okay? I'm not hearing you in the room that keep up guys are perhaps muted Some microphone is open there because we can have me to take somewhere, but I guess no one is speaking back to your question Charles. All right, thanks Magnus. I see your remote as well Yeah, I ended up being... Hello, hello, testing Are you able to hear this? Yes I don't know do you see my video and is it blinking for you? It's thinking for me up being. Hello, hello testing. Are you able to hear this? Yes. I don't know, do you see my video and is it blinking for you? It's thinking red for me. Yeah, wonder why that is. That's going to be annoying if I might try dropping and seeing if I can get that to stop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:26",
    "text": "I guess. I'm sorry. I'm going to go you Thank you very much It's not going to be good Okay Okay Hello, in the room. I hope everyone's getting your lunch okay And it'd be great if someone in there can confirm the the audio is working on Hey, Charles so we can kind of hear you, but your voice is a little muffled Okay, not sure if that's a problem with the audio in the room or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "um i've asked there too i think i hear you quite fine as an online participant So I think it's part of the speaker setup in the room Do you hear me better than charles yeah you're a little better than Charles Okay. Is it bad to the point where I need to maybe find a headset or something or is it, can you hear me up? is it all right um I want say it's too bad. I mean, but if you have a headset that you might want to try it out all right i'll go grab that I don't know. We have a song for us. Thank you Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:26",
    "text": "Okay, I'm trying with that headset now. Is that better in the room? Can you? hear me more clearly? It became slightly better here also for me, so Okay, I'll go with this. Thanks, Magnus Yeah, and your video was still flashing so I guess you will might have to run it out video yeah I think I'll do that that Thank you Charles, if you're speaking, you know, hearing you at all now Oh, that's strange because Magnus can hear me just fine Yeah, that's that's do you hear me then Thank you hear Charles? Yeah, I hear my house Do you hear me at all? Yeah, you're softer than before and occasionally not audible at all Huh. That's really weird OK"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "Okay, maybe you might want to ditch the idea of having the headphone then Well, for me, Charles sounds better, so it's very strange that it's worse for you So how's it working now? Mahesh? Any better or any worse? A tiny bit better Okay, I'll just go with this Apologies, that it's not better. I don't know, doesn't seem there's anything I can change on my side at this point Hopefully you can also see the slides okay Yep. Okay I'll go ahead and put those in presentation mode and we will just go ahead and get going then. Thanks everyone for joining Hopefully you are able to grab some lunch. Hopefully it's a good lunch this time around And here's the agenda. Just kind of watch to go over a few things first of all the notes Let's see, we had a folks really help out a lot with the notes. Last time Spencer in particular did a fantastic job. The link here you can get it from the slides or it's from the meeting information If people can go there and take notes, that would be great That will certainly help me a lot And Spencer, are you online? by any chance? Because you did a great job last time if you're up for doing it again this time. That'd be great Uh, yeah, this, this is Spencer I am in the room standing up but I am in the room. Oh, fantastic It's always a pressure. Are you?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "up for taking notes? Not standing up Thank you. I will let someone else be in charge of that. Thank you You mean we ran out of the room for, we're okay, we're overcrowded in there. I can see that It's a sellout cloud, of course Yeah, we go. Spencer. Yes You've lost your excuse Oh, I think it sounds like someone just found you a chair Oh, damn damn Okay, well, fantastic Thanks for that. And others, please help spend it along as well Anything else to add to the agenda? We did get this one draft added. The 5QI, the diff serve, DSEP mapping. That's been added to anything else. Are we all good at this point? I have a thing to add, sorry, David, I can't have any joined the queue yet During the AOB period, maybe a question about store and forward that has come up in SA1, SA2 Okay. Okay thank you okay David okay and uh and David just to clarify what you said Charles the 5 QI2 DSCP mapping draft is on the agenda here only for coordination purposes, primarily to understand 3GPP's view of IE working interior. It's not on the agenda to discuss the merit of the draft oh exactly I mean that's that of IETF work in territory. It's not on the agenda to discuss the merits of the draft. Oh, exactly. I mean, that's really the point of this meeting is that court coordination between the two groups. So yeah, yeah, thanks for clarifying that. No, agreed completely Okay, great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Then we will go ahead and jump in liaisons And where we're at here, is I'm going to start kind of from the ones that have been hanging around a little bit longer and then we're forward to the ones that are that are more recent So this one from ESP to NetMod, there's been work going on in the net recent. So this one from SA5 to NetMod, there's been work going on in the NetMod in regard to NetMod working group in regard to this. Basically, there's a need with the 3GPP special been work going on in the NetMod in regard to NetMod working group in regard to this. Basically, there's a need within the 3GPP specifications for this concept of it is invariant and system created in Yang and there's been a lot of good debate within IETF about how best to address this and now there is a draft that has been adopted by the working group. You can see it here draft IETF NetMod, immutable flag and it's being discussed It's at the agenda here. My understanding is we're still making good progress on this especially recently since the draft has been adopted So I don't think we're ready to send anything back to the SA5 yet Probably when we get to a working group last call though we'd want to go ahead and do that and maybe just make sure that they're happy SA5 is happy and this really meeting their needs So I plan to bring that up in the NetMod session But other thoughts on this one? Okay then for for this one, this is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "related to DTLS for STP. And we've had a bit about back and forth between the groups where first some security vulnerability were basically found in our current approach TSBWG brought that up to the relevant groups within through GPPP And with this one, what's actually happening is a couple solution proposals or shake with specifically with SA3 and with RAN 3, both to make sure that those solutions were, well, to first of all make sure that we were understanding the requirements correctly, and then to see what they found of these solutions and if they had a preference on the path for forward, we got feedback back from them TSBWG is now working based on that feedback. There's a designing team that's come up working on a proposal and that my understanding is an LS will be sent back to these 3GPP groups as soon as there's a solution identified and with enough detail that we're ready for that to review it. And I see that this is a topic of discussion at this IETF meeting as well. Anything I've missed there or that we need to discuss on this call Charles sorry this Mahesh, I might have missed something on the previous slide. Is there any action item for the NetMod working? group for the draft that was adopted? There's nothing required at this time. I think that it was just a thought on my part that it would be good to um you know send an ls to SA5 when we're at the point that we think this draft is something the work group's happy with and to make sure that at that point before it actually goes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "further and becomes an RFC that it really is meeting the needs of SA5 But I just plan to bring that up in the Netlon session Okay, thanks Shows, this is Jahad here On this slide, I think this summer is returned well. I think there has been some updates by the individual drafts covering different solutions that has been provided so far to the design team so it's a work in progress so to say okay yeah and there's two TSBWG sessions, this one will be discussed in the session this evening right Local Vancouver time No, I believe it's on Friday. It's on Friday and I don't think, like, must to discuss about this status information. I don't know like if there is any other plans so far okay Great. Thanks glad to know it is Friday though so I don't know, like, if there is any other plans so far. Okay. Great. Thanks. Glad to know it is Friday, though. So, all right anything else on this one Okay Now the next one is one that was sent front by the Drick Working Group to SA2 and essay 3 This essentially came out of some discussions at the last IETF that we had in Brisbane and then you can see in April we actually sent this LS over to HBP. Unfortunately, it was kind of missed on the FGP side so it didn't actually get posted in time for the 3GPP meeting in May, but it is on their agenda now for the audience"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "meeting it was informational just to let them know that this RFC had come out But so just that's one reason why I've been meeting. It was informational just to let them know that this RFC had come out. But so just that's one reason why that group might not have received anything yet but this problem of it not appearing has been addressed We think it, you know, we have a fix for that now but unfortunately that this one was just missed so it was a little bit late and being shared with UGPP Any thoughts on this one? Okay, and then similarly with this one from T's to essay 2, SA3 5, and ran 3 this was letting those groups know that a framework for network slices in networks built on IETF technologies have been published as an RFC and straight to their attention so that they were aware of it This one similarly was missed on the 3GP side but it will appear on there as a contribution that's already set as a contribution for the upcoming meeting in August This one also just for information to them Okay, and then another one. This is letting those same groups know about a draft and it's sort of related to the previous one a realization of network's license for 5G networks using current IP IP-MPLS technologies And now here we actually do want some feedback We really want these groups to take a look at it and get back to us and let us know if the information that we've put"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "in here in the appendix is accurate And just because of where this draft is and order to keep it progressing in a timely matter, we've requested that feedback by the end of August This has been submitted as a comment contribution to these work, these groups and TGPP through GPP. The one complexity that I see that could come up here is because it was sent to multiple groups within SA, SA 2, 3, and 5 If they, those groups may want to coordinate their response and St. Sunback basically a single response in which case, what they typically do, is they provide that as input to the essay plenary in September and so we might not get feedback. I think if that does happen, then we'll figure out kind of some other way for just the individual feedback from those groups to be shared, even if 3GP hasn't really come up with a combined consensus on the specific information that that's coming a little bit later. So we'll try to get some early feedback is what I'm thinking we'll do For RAM 3, we shouldn't have that problem They should just be able to send it directly Any additional thoughts? on this one? Okay And then one more. This came from the SA Plenary to matthew quick working group. Basically what was happening was this was the result of some interaction between SA2 and SA3, where SSA had actually sent an LS to SA3 asking them to look at a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "solution that is based on this draft, IETF quick multipath and to ask SA3 to provide some feedback on the security aspects of it And SA3 responded back to SA2 saying, that they were sort of not ready or able to do that. They had some concerns because this draft didn't even have a security consideration section yet, or it was left as TBD not ready or able to do that. They had some concerns because this draft didn't even have a security consideration section yet or it was it was left as TBD. So they really wanted the to be addressed as quickly as possible by IETF to at least add security considerations to help SA with their assessment of the draft Fortunately, work was already going on within matthew quick working group in parallel So by the time this LS actually came out matthew quick working group had already posted an update, providing exactly what had been asked So it provided the security consideration section and then that has been refined plus some additional refinements have gone into version 10 of the draft which is now posted and Maria sent me some input on it saying that it was in quite good shape And so it seems to be progressing nicely And the thought is that of we'll figure out it will be on the agenda for matthew quick work group here at IETF 120 And among other things, we'll figure out that approach then to send to back to 3GPP to let them know this progress that's been made and sort of the latest status of that draft Anyone else have things? to share on that?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "Jay to that again. Yeah. So it's right, like this happened Like does zero one zero Herschon actually have much more meat on the security consider So I was thinking like what happens to the L do we do you still expect that quick working group will reply to the LS? or we can just say like, okay, we have enough information here so that we don't need to reply. I mean shall we just say some paperwork or continue doing that reply? Well, I think in LS would hurt here and maybe what would be good to convey in the LS is does the working group have any um things that it thinks are not stable I mean it really there's working group consensus around what Miria said here, that it's close to final and the working group's pretty happy with it that kind of information would be perhaps helpful to share If there's specific parts aspects of the draft, where we think hey, this is still a big open issue then that could be good to know as well, just so that when essay two and three, when they're looking at these, they know if there are going to be changes, these are areas we're changing might still be expected to occur So that's why I thought, well, out of the work group, session here at IETF 120, you can decide Should NLS be sent, I kind of feel like it should be in exactly what should we convey in that I'll let you other coordinator to talk about it. Peter speaking, hello Charles, so you're touching be in exactly what should we convey in that. I'll let you other coordinator to talk about it. Peter speaking, hello Charles. The point is you are touching what I want to say So the working group should reply to SA and also in copy to SA2 and essay 3. So that SA2 and SA3"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "can check what IETF has done and then report accordingly to SA so that SA knows how to proceed because then we have a clear requirement clear set of requirements and then we know what's going on. Because SA is just on the monitoring and do not make these final decisions But if SA2 and SA3 will get the information regarding these securities, topics, then we can have these also already checked by SA2 and SA3 And SA does not have to ask in the plenary opinion of SA2 and SA3 if IETF just provides information on also to these working groups, because SA2 and SS3 has already said, will meet in August and SA will meet in September So we would have a clear guidance and position noted at the end of the September. Okay, so after hearing both of you, I think what my position would be like we reply, but I mean, the finalization of this whole draft is depending like working on last call like before it comes to the AD2 review and all these things So let's let's not talk about the finalization but what we see, we reply with that, like, this is the current state of things, this is where discussions are happening, and if essay or is the three especially, things like there's something that missing, because this, might have looked into the security consideration with the particular view so if those are really really covered then we did did the job good job otherwise we'll be very happy to get a response like what is missing and um the security consideration section is up to the mark from the ASA point of view, that would be great input to the discussion. Okay great. That sounds good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "All right, thanks. So with that, we're done with the LSs. Anything else on any of the LSs or about the LSs in general before we move on to the dependencies? So the first several slides are just kind of good news These are dependencies that have now been published as RFCs and some of them have actually been published a while ago. But now we've kind of completed the full cycle where with the responsible groups within 3GPP have gone and updated their specs to replace the reference to the draft with the approach reference to the BRC So with RFC 9201 that's happened and you can see that there were updates to the 17 and 18 to take that into account. I'm gonna to go through these pretty quickly because with these other RFCs, same thing 9202. We did everything right there we got everything updated, 9203 So with this, we won't need to be tracking these anymore we basically completed what was necessary there is one that we have oh, and this one too 9430, same thing it was published and now the 3DP specifications have been updated accordingly This one I wanted to point out just because in this case we didn't quite get it everything right. The RFC was published and there were updates on the 3GPP side. However, they ended up up updating the references section but didn't update the text"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "And in the text, it actually referenced the draft still. So we're going to need additional updates additional CRs to go and update these So a little bit more work left on that side And Peter, can I leave it? to you to make sure that those groups are aware? and know they need to make additional CRs here? Yeah, I think here we simply will contact the chair of this group and ask him that he asked again for a CR. It's very simple changes more or less editorial but it has to be done. Yeah, and if we can get it done now while it's still a fraction of everyone's mind, then, yeah, we don't just let it slip and forget about it Great So now then we have a couple of drafts that are in the RFC editors queue, draft I IETF, Sturter Passport, RCD This one's been there for a little while It still is in the RFC editors queue And the reason is that it's waiting. There's a mess for a little while. It still is in the RFC, Editors queue. And the reason is that it's waiting. There's a misrep. And so this draft IETF, SIPCOR, called Info, RCE I see it is listed on the agenda for STIR So we, I guess we really need to make sure that that draft actually completes and only then will the draft passport or CD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "be complete. So taking it bit of time, but it is still moving forward as far as I can And then draft IETF debt net yang This one posted, sorry, this one's also in the RFC I heard Q, and it's being worked at there aren't actually any blockers there. So hopefully that one will be coming out soon as well Any thoughts on either of these? Okay, and then one other, oh, this draft's actually an IES review. There was quite a flurry of activity of this, a lot of versions of this draft. It went through quick iterations. The authors were quite responsive in moving it forward. I can see now it's in IESG review. I'm not aware of any big blockers or issues with this one. I think we're just going through our process But I don't know if anyone has anything else to add on this one Okay Then a couple other ones here. These are active workgroup documents. We already talked about IT quick multipath, so I'm not going to spend any more time on that one now. Draft IETF Mimi context This one is still within the working group. It does seem to be moving along okay So at least I don't see any reason for concern for this one as long as it continues to progress Anyone have anything else? to add on that one?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "Okay, and then drafts SIPC core RFC BIS This, you may remember, was an individual draft and the thought we brought it into the SIPC core working group. Basically everyone was okay with what it was proposing, but the thought was that it was actually better to do it as a biz to 79-76 to update that our rather than to make this its own RFC. And so that was what the working group decided. It got posted as an initial version of that draft within the working group. There was another working group last year what the working group decided. It got posted as an initial version of that draft within the working group. There was another working group last call. There were some minor comments for myself and from Paul Kitz of it that draft within the working group. There was another working group last call. There were some minor comments for myself and from Paul Kitsiv. And there's just what Paul's comments still needs to be addressed, but there's been agreement as to how to do that So this one's moving forward And actually, I don't know I think it's just as soon as the working group happy with it i think that one would be ready for to go to the IESG Any other thoughts or updates on this one? Okay, great And then IETF mask connect Ethernet This is on Proxing Ethernet and HGTP This one is still being worked within the working group, but it has been adopted and seems to be moving along okay okay It doesn't actually appear in a 3GPP normative specification yet, but it's has been noted within a the conclusion section of one of the TRs, which is basically the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "output of a study So it seems fairly certain that there will be changes, normative changes and 23501 to bring this in and it'll be referenced this draft So in this case, we're a little bit ahead of the game, which is good But still, there'll be a normal dependency on this fairly soon So we'll continue to keep an eye on this as it hopefully progresses to working group last call and then continues toward ours ours Any concerns or additional information on this one? Okay. Great Then there are a couple individual drafts that have been kind of around for a while that are referenced by 3GPP specs and Peter noticed this and and so we've added them to the list as things we need to get resolution on This one here, draft B Hutton JSON schema. It's a proposed a media type for describing JSON documents You can see a little bit of the context there that, you know, the thought was that rather than relying on some documentation within this open source collective, the thought was bringing on some documentation within this open source collective, the thought was bring it into IETF and let's actually standardize it As far as I know, this didn't seem to get much support though within IETF and at this point, it's not clear that the authors have much energy to move it forward or that anyone within IETF has energy to move it forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "So we thing would be we can go back to essay four and just let them know, hey, if this is really needed, they're going to have to someone is going to have to come and help progress it within IETF I don't know if that's realistic, though So I'm actually curious to find, because I don't know the history of this one, other than what you see on this slide. So if people have thoughts on it, that would be helpful I'm not Eric Klein I'm orie steele, Art AD I am aware of the history of this document It's a kind of complicated topic, so if you could contact me sort of offline I'd like to get some background on where it's referenced within 3GPP what you're looking at so if you could contact me sort of offline, I'd like to get some background on where it's referenced within 3GPP, what you're looking for in terms of stable references there and I'll do my best to help sort of out. Thanks Okay, and I'm sorry, who was that? orie steele, R.A.D Thank you, Ory Appreciate that And then this next one, also related to JSON is would it be a similar comment on this one? one? This is a language for rules describing JSON content a draft that's been expired for a number of years, but still referenced in one of the GDP specification This, I'm not familiar with this document, but in your email that you send regarding the other one, if you could include it, I'll review it and I'll do my best to assist Okay, thanks a lot Peter speaking on the previous one I have some email discussion with the as a forechair Maybe I can forward this email with these guys to you as well. So then you have the whole background"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "Because I got a very long email for Monos as a four delegates. Okay Yeah, that can be helpful Okay, thanks Ori and thanks Peter Yeah, hopefully we'll be able to figure out a path forward on this one Okay, and now just for a discussion on this draft and it will be discussed within T's the goal here as David met mentioned, is since similar kind of proposals along this line had come up before and through GPP wasn't really receptive to IETF doing work what we'd like to understand here is if we already have a 3GPP opinion, if anyone here knows about how 3GP is viewing this, or if they have some insights into that, and if not maybe what the best way to find that out would be. So we can understand how best to coordinate with EGPP on this So Charles is being polite, 3GPP was strongly opposed to IETF doing anything in this space. doubly so if it had any possible applicability to any public mobile network This is four to five years ago when this happened, so perhaps things have changed since then So one possibility, I'd guess, would be if there is interest within the T's working group, yeah, we could see an LS to DPP just to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "get input. But if we already know what that input is then yeah we don't need to repeat that cycle I think getting new input would be a good idea. We don't know how well the prior experience has aged Anyone else have thoughts on this one? So, Charles, this is Subir? Yep, hi Yeah, so I think I echo what David said Many years back, I think there were a lot of discussions and also at that time if I remember correctly, there are some operators they also gave their feedback here in the IETF so I think it would be good to hear from 3GPP if there is any renewed interest But I echo what David said said This is Spencer. I believe I'm remembering from I'm remembering this draft from commerce believe I'm remembering from, I'm remembering this draft from conversations with David when I was a very director several years ago. So I hope that things have changed sometime, some point in the past and level set conversations with David when I was a very director several years ago so I hope I hope that things have changed sometimes some point in the past and level setting seems like a great idea Okay, thanks Spencer and severe and David I think we have a path forward then, or at least a plan Charles, this is Jahad, so I mean, this dissipating. I mean, on this topic especially, I'm really a bit confused like, what is the venue? I mean, this definitely touches TSVWG I, I saw, like, people are now circulating in TSVWG. So I think there need to be anything happens, like how we progress with this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "one. We need to have a tight coordination. I mean, this is information for TS and TSBWG also for this coordination here Right. Yeah, so I guess the first question is is there at least enough interest here where it's worthwhile? to send an LS and that sounds you useful so we can, and it'll be important to craft the right, to craft that correctly so that we ask the right questions and we get some input and then whether or not work actually moves forward on this based on that input and whether it happens in T's or TSPWG or we decided it's not going anywhere I guess that would be a second step Sounds good to me Thank you. Zahad, this should a share So I think like we had this kind of thing happening in the past about the slicing. It was kind of distributed all over the ATF and the IESG, we had a decision to kind of take it to 180 right? Like so, because there's like quite a bit of like 80 shopping and working group shopping going around. Maybe that's something worthwhile for the IESG to look at to say like, okay, like anything slicing related kind of goes to one point of contact, maybe one of the audience 80s or like you know you like with 80 and kind of coordinate that because like, you know, I personally think, like, you know, sending an LS at this point is premature because like this has not been accepted in the work group like in any way. Like I would just say like, hey, just let them talk and if it goes further, then do the LS, right? Or TGPP send a L LS to say, like, hey, like, you know, we don't want you to work on this because we are doing it here or something like that right but right now this has like no standing this is like individual rap I can write pretty much anything so I would say it's a bit premature for an LS at least so I think I think that's a good idea to have it like routed to the single lady to actually work on it and coordinated this one I would prefer this goes to routing ADE because this is basically I mean, as I said, like this will come"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "come to a point like it it belongs to wheat area also, so we'll do the coordination. But I'm actually not sure like this is premature because I think this is the right questions to act like if the question here is like 3GP finish this for some sort of slicing or other things so maybe we should ask like is this the real I mean, what is the impression? Because we all, I mean, as it said, there in past there has been some position right Doing defining things here for that might be used in the three system. So I think it's not pretty much to ask it. So also like it will help us to not invest our time in it to figure it out of what to do with this document okay I would agree it not premature the history the process history of the four to five years ago was a three G was sufficiently strongly opposed to block working group adoption of that draft. Okay thanks david oliver as i said right like you know i did not know if there's any interest in the working group to take it that's kind of why i thought it was premature, right? Like, you know, if the working group is kind of interested, then do it but I don't have a big reason to like not do it, but I just said, like, why do we waste effort on things that may never get adopted? That's kind of the line I'm thinking of OK. Yeah, and I should I think that's a good point, is that, you know, it's not as different received an LS from 3DPP asking for some work here. So if there's not interest in IETF to move forward, then I don't think we need to say, hey, is 3GPP? wanting some work that looks like this? But if there was work, if people were interested in doing it in the working group, then as before sort of adopting it or making any real work effort or progress around it, then it's seems like it would be good to check with each working group, then as before sort of adopting it or making any real work effort or progress around it, then it seems like it would be good to check with 3GPP. So maybe it is best then just to see how the discussion on this draft goes within T's. And then we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "can make the call and do I have that right? The T's is where this draft's going to be discussed? I believe I saw it on the agenda there I think so It's in tease a question here Who's responsible for AD for T's? and they will are they aware that I need to end in the shares here that they can't really, they really need to maybe put in a we can only adopt this if we get to go ahead for free? the people from those aspects, potentially That's what I suggested, Magnus, to Zayyad to kind of like close the like thing on the IESG probably on the Friday wrap-up meeting or something that they discuss it and say like hey like this came up if you're looking for adoption then kind of check with 3GPP right like you know if there's interest to work on it please check and maybe at that point send an LS as well if there's an adoption call going or something so they can chime in. I think that would probably be the best way forward. OK, so Jahad again if that didn't happen, like, if we are not sure, like even that chairs and eddies of tears actually had a view on it and then then i actually agree with you sure like so we should have that kind of be view. And Jim is the Eddie for TS So let me do it like this. I will ping Jim and we'll talk about it and see like where it stands and then charles will keep you update like whether what do we think I was assuming like there has been some discussion and that's why it reappeared this kind of thing in tears, and there's a moment is a momentum in I have to do this so that's why I was saying like this is not premature to send an LS, but if we're like not sure about any of the things that you say it's Jewish, then we might actually wait until we see like how the discussion happening at the TS Orping Group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "Yeah, it's four more days, right? Like, you know, yeah, that's very much Yeah, so Charles, I think Jayad, I was definitely involved and reviewed the previous one in the TSV, WG This is the first time I have noticed that it dropped is appearing in T's. I do not act actively follow it, but I don't know whether this had been discussed earlier. So I think that today's proposal makes sense, and if this document is on meant for 3GPB, then I think that earlier consideration should be, you know reviewed. I agree with that, yes Right, and I think it applies only the 3GP because of the 5QI naming, right? Like, so if 5QI is like a 3GPB only concept really. So I think, yeah, we should check It was discussed at least one prior IETF I will put T's on my dance card and make sure I'm there for when this draft is presented there Thanks, David. Thank you. This is Spencer This is the most discussion that we've had on any topic so far And there's only two other people in the hedge dock If people could take a look at what I'm capturing here and fix anything that I'm getting wrong or add names of potential stuckies and things like that, that would be great. Thank you Spencer Zahid is a stuckey so. Hey I'm only the stuckey on minute taking I also think in Sharpe the 80 for T's in Slack, but he's a still en route with the airplane stuff So, yeah, okay. Okay great, thanks everyone for all the helpful discussion on this All right with that, a couple of what I think will be pretty"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "quick topics. First, on the coordination email list that we're using here you can see a reference to it there, 3GPP IRTF coordination I recently went and sent, hopefully I sent invitations but maybe I auto-subscribed you, I don't know, to the new members of the IEA who came in as a result of the recent NOMCOM and so there was a set of you that came in And I see you are on the list. Hopefully you had a bit of an opt-in but in any case I'd like to know how did that process work out okay? Denny, was it confusing? Is there anyone who's here who didn't get on that list who we need to ask? or who's had problems And then also just to let you know, I continue to keep the mechanism that I share with people here before that anyone can ask send a subscription request, and then I just check back with them to see like, hey, why do they want to be? on this list? What's the reason? And if they come back to me, with a reasonable reason, then I tend to add them a lot of times I just get nothing at all and so that it's very easy to know that I don't need to add them So if anyone did try to subscribe and it looked like it just fell silently, check again with me because it could be that there was just some problem with that process Okay, I guess I cover it that. Now, um, RFC 313"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "this describes really how the coordination between QGBE and IETF goes It's kind of a, it's an RC that's been around for a while, as you can tell by the number, and we thought there might be, well, we know there's some things in there that have definitely changed and that are kind of out of date So we discussed this in the past and where we had left it was Sir Ash was going to go and being the IAB member who's helping us with who looks over liaison and take this back to discuss within that step step so maybe Suresh yeah thanks Charles. So we talked about this in quite a lot of detail at the retreat. So we discovered like we discussed multiple ways forward, like how we kind of go about doing this update. And I think the high level thing was that we don't want to put too much detail in there, right? if you look at the 313, it talks about the structure of like how 3GPP is organized, how IETF is organized and these are the things that get out of date pretty quickly. So like what? we want to kind of do in the update is tom strickx to high-level things saying, hey, like 3GP and IETF want to work together, like, you know, this is kind of how you do it, and like more information should go into a wiki, which can be updated. So that's kind of the decision we go to. So it's going to have like less stuff in it, the update to that and then have a pointer to stuff like where, which is more dynamic stuff is getting done right and that could be a wiki and that's kind of what we converged on and we kind of have a strong backing in the IAB for that. And that's probably what we should go with and I know like Spencer has like a bunch of updates queue to it and we can probably sit together like four of us and have a chat how we kind of go about bringing the updates in and where the updates go either into the RFC or in the wiki right like because a lot of the stuff can go into the wiki but some of the stuff probably needs to go into the RFC This is Spencer. So if I'm remembering correctly I did create some issues when we created the GitHub repo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:05",
    "text": "And those don't necessarily reflect the discussions at the IAB retreat. I should also mention that I am currently not working for anybody that is a 3GPP member So it would be great if somebody else was able to take over the work on the minimal update And I apologize of course for not producing that much text but it sounds like that was the right thing to do anyway yeah no thank you Spencer. Like, you know, I can certainly, like, pick that up and gladly appreciate, like, you doing the stuff. Yeah And we'd love to have you on still, right? I think it's still good. We can kind of go on but. Yeah, you don't need to remove me from the repo, but I'm probably not gonna be following it like I would have been at the previous plan. Thank you Thanks okay and then where when we do have something we want to get reviewed, like where would this draft, actually, when we have an update to it, we want to post, where would it post? So the draft should be a IAB stream document? right? Like, so we would like just take it, like, publish the draft and then ask the iab to kind of look at it and accept it or not, right? So the IAB has a process to like adopt a document and take it forward. That's the path that's going to go through because the last one went through the same path so it won't be an IA the IAB to kind of look at it and accept it or not. So the IAB has a process to like adopt a document and take it forward. That's the path it's going to go through because the last one went through the same path. So it won't be an IETF document. Okay And then I'm thinking as we're if there's things we're pulling out, of the RFC or that were issues where we're we're addressing it that Spencer's captured in the GitHub we probably want to put those somewhere. And so this wiki page would probably be good to work on info"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "parallel Yeah, sounds good. I think like once we kind of have the minimum update, then we can kind of look at the wiki and there's also a liaison coordinator stuff like that in the media, Tommy and I are like in there. So we can kind of like start following it up up there Because we do have generally all the liaison related stuff in there so it might be a good place to move the issues too okay yeah that'd be great yeah yeah work So I think we were also thinking that putting the wiki in the IAB wiki might be a good place So we can create a page there for you if you think it's useful Yeah, yeah, that'd be great I'd kind of like to get that created soon because then the yeah, we can start tom strickx thing and stick things in the appropriate place you know, start to address those GitHub issues in one place or another And just one more question to reconfirm So I felt that the IB discussion was that this updated document would be very, very short pointing to the wiki and really putting most of the information in the wiki. Okay. Correct And one thing we also discussed, maybe this is a question to Peter, is we also, it would probably be useful to get some feedback from 3GP about like what would be useful for you from your side The, just to follow up with Miria the thing very short update, but just making sure that the things that are outdated are not, you know, don't live on in the BIS because there are things that 3GPP just doesn't work that way anymore So what I'm saying what I meant by a short update is removing most of it and just having very little context. Yeah, I understand that Yeah. I'm just saying the part there are parts that you, there are parts that would need to be updated because they would need to stay, but they still need to be updated and you guys know that so so but that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "what I'm saying. I don't think most of this, anything that can update should not stay, should be removed and be moved to the wiki instead Yeah, that's a fine rule. Thank you I think as I studied Peter speaking we will remove this to have a bit very short and do not have any kind of repetition Because currently, if you look in 311 you see there, for example, G G-Ran mentioned. Correct. But G-run is a since a couple of years gone. Correct This is the whole problem Like we felt having an RFC, which is like written in stone forever is not useful So we wanted and we didn't want to just kind of declare this RFC as historic because that would be confusing and then people think like are we not talking to 3GP anymore? So we decided for a very short RFC saying now we are maintaining this information in the wiki. And then we have to make sure that we put the information in the wiki that is actually useful for everybody who is working here in this space it should be simply some this information in the wiki and then we have to make sure that we put the information in the wiki that is actually useful for everybody who is working here in this space. It should be simply something that everybody is clear how I care and 3P are coordinating each other Yeah, that's it. Exactly. That's it, Peter We just put the minimum amount of information that we just how we can of look together, very short, and then like talk about the wiki where we can have things. And not just that, like, you know, kind of talk even looking at the 3113, I wonder if it ever worked because it says like find the 3GPP people responsible by going to 3gpp.org right which is kind of, like, not very helpful for anybody, which is probably true, right? You can probably find it somewhere, but it's not very helpful. So maybe like those are the kind of things we kind of like pull out. And as Maria said, like I try to keep it minimal and have a right pointer to place. And I think like the IABB is good as long as we can figure out the permissions if somebody non-IAB can edit it but you need to check that right like but other than that I think it's a fine place to put it yeah at least it's the best way of doing it in this way because also in three people page we are three to improving it always so if you have found something just to give an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "example, these IAN orchestration was never traced, and then it was put, for example under one working group in ZT But a lot of other groups have also done something and then it was very tricky to find somebody to find from someone who was looking at then for from a SA4 perspective doing the coding that these registration are then under a CT working group So this is now also captured under a different place in the web page. So it's easier for us to find this. And these kind of proof improvements, we are still and can continue working on this on the three web page to make it easier for those who are coming from the outside finding topics that sounds like we definitely actively need somebody from the C3bP site to maintain this wiki that we will create So I hope you can help us with that. Or also if you have proposals, where's the best place to put the wiki? we can still discuss that. That was just like, we have a place that I, it's the IB wiki, but like we can put it somewhere else as well Maybe we can do one, two things one to put it from the ive side and the and then you can put also a link on three their page so that we have from there also a point That's good. That's awesome side and then you can put also a link on through the page so that we have from there also a point at least i'm starting to put all when i find something I ask the person who is responsible please edit there there But I'm pretty sure you'll find a lot of these topics This is Spencer again I just needed to say I need to scoot out of here because I'm on the agenda in the next meeting slot So if somebody else could take over taking notes, that would be great And thank you. Thanks, Spencer It is always a pleasure So for Charles and other I have been working and taking notes and someone else is helping"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "out a little bit in in the actual head dock for this session Okay, fantastic. Thank you Yeah. I think we have a path forward on this one then. And uh and peter will we'll include this in our next status, IETF status to the at the SA plenary, just to let them know what's going on Okay Now, just a quick update on this. That did you be P2? tutorial as a technical deep dive. We had some good discussion around this and Jeffrey put together an initial document a set of slides, and we talked through them, but then I think it came apparent to us that we needed to kind of take a step back and think, what are we actually trying to accomplish? here and what's appropriate for our technical deep dive versus a tutorial and so, you know, I think we started that discussion but then we also decided okay let's not going to get anything together in time for Vancouver and we lost a little bit of our kind of steam because of that. Now we are targeting Dublin to come up with at least whether it's a technical deep dive or it's a tutorial to come up with something and maybe it's a combination of the two What we decided was we're going to come up with a set of topics discuss which is appropriate for a technical deep dive and I think we already have a good kind of agreement on what makes sense for that And then if there's additional things that would be good as just overall tutorials and see if we can do one or both of those in double So my thought is that during and after this meeting, we'll kind of regroup and make progress on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "I don't know if there's any other thoughts, if anyone had something to share And we welcome others to come and help So yeah, this is Warren I mean, thank you, that all sounds great i think we should do both the tutorial and the tddd bit and hopefully others in the room will be happy to review the slides and things and help provide content feedback, et cetera, because I'm helping organize this and I know nothing useful about the project I think is true of the majority of IETF participants Okay, thanks, Warner Okay, and then with that, just have a minute or two, I guess Sorry, I don't have more time for the storm forward discussion One of the three GPP meetings, we were talking that there was an SA1 requirement let out to support store and forward for five NTN and that there were some architectural studies out in SA2 for how this would be done. And as someone who works in both the time variant routing working group and the DTN work group, we saw language in the studies and in the requirements, particularly calling out delay tolerant communications, store and forward communications and things like routing over time and scheduled routing And so we were trying to understand how we could work closely with the 3GPP because when we talk to the folks about it, they were unaware of this work in the IETM I see, okay Well, I know there is at least what, well, I guess that's a very specific draft the Dett-Yang draft that had been, that they were aware of in reference, but is this kind of for the story? and forward work, it's also in debt net, but that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "a separate subject that they haven't been following, I guess is what you're saying Yeah, I think there's more work here that they should be aware of than just debt net, although obviously the debt network is very good So how about sending a liaison statement? Because that will usually make it officially on the agenda and create some awards Yeah, I don't know how to do that Work with charts, I think And I think the thing would be to go about doing that, whether it's something, we could start within one working group if you think the DETMAC group would be the right one, or if it's kind of more cross-working group, then we need to figure a right responsible AD probably to work with, right, to coordinate that Yeah, I think, like, just send a note to your mayor like with group mailing is saying you're going to send the statement in case somebody wants to chime in, and then you can just post-reducing Charles, like let me just say this is what you're going to send like just make sure the working group is aware of it and send a note to DTN and TV are saying hey we are planning to send this L to chime in and then you can just post-reducing Charles like let me just say this is what you're going to send like just make sure the working group is aware of it and send a note to DTN and TV are saying hey we are planning to send this LAS like you have two weeks to comment on it and then like Charles can just post it on the, or Peter, either of them can post it on the liaison page and it goes out to 3GPP To put it, yeah, I think you are the one responsible creating the text, the content of the resource statement, then you should go with your AD to confirm that makes sense and then Charles can help you to actually send it Okay. Thank you. Thank you You will be handling with that can. Okay thanks. Anything else? Okay, well, thanks everyone and hopefully we have a, oh, you know, I forgot to ask people to sign into the METECO, because that guess one of the things, it seems like we kind of ran out of room there in the room, so that's good to know and perhaps something I need to let the secretary know for for next time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "But it would be helpful for those of you I think if you could go in add yourself in the in the notes if you didn't sign into Miteco or if you still can sign into Miteco, that be great. I meant to ask everyone to do that at the beginning just so that we have a more accurate attendance. So I don't know how many of you did sign in the on-site tool, but if you could quickly, do that, that would be super helpful just to make sure that we don't lose your attendance Thank you, Charles Thanks, and I'll send something later on with the notes and then everyone can take a look at that as well And recording and all that should be available also Thanks. Sorry I'm not there with you everyone in person Enjoy the rest of your IETF Thank you, Charles. Thank you, Charles And see you in August. Yeah Thank you"
  }
]
