[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "[Music] there are limited good afternoon good afternoon West I withdraw meeting welcome to everyone this meeting please note that this meeting is a touchstone not well be aware of that and the meeting materials thank you very much to Dominique for being the meanest taker and diverse cried Raoul thank you very much guys thank you very much unequal there is someone else that want to please help those guys be kind and help us please and there are the links please sign the blue sheets yeah the bruises are they are so yeah so this is the agenda for today we have some new work and new updates of they already presented work comments for agenda no okay thank you okay our milestones are like a rainbow colorful not green some pink or red but I think hey we are moving on like slowly what do you think I like to keep the milestones as the I am not updating and the less that\u0027s a very good reason for it so it shows how fast our progress is and if you keep on updating the milestones we all think your own time and you\u0027re not that mean it just slow so I wanted to keep the mouse saying date system if there any objections like this shows badly off on the reputation of the working group please tell us now otherwise I\u0027ll just come to keep them yep thank you okay and they stayed of the active internet drop they\u0027re going to be some discussions playing and some working regrets call that we want to pay address there are other other job that is like expired or on hall if you need some help let this as nothing they were in the Middle East we will try to help you to move forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:29",
    "text": "their document and there is some relate internet draft and all of them they are going to be discussed today so very nice that we have new work ongoing yeah and that\u0027s well ripple observation was updated just today so means nice thank you and they open tickets we have somebody doubt projections that we want to make last call will be nice to know if they are addresses already ok the use of rippling info M we believe that we add like some operational considerations for the new option and the security section as well was modified we believe that address all the tickets a please read if you have comments into the main list because now she\u0027s in the last call charlie is not here so we can pass to Raoul thank you I want to present the new document model operation extension hello hello this working ok thank you I\u0027m technologists I\u0027ll be talking about two things today one is the mo P or the mode of operation extension which is rather an easy subject but the other thing the capabilities this is something that we are trying to introduce new into our peel and I\u0027ll try to reason as to why this is required but before going into the into the details about capabilities let me talk about mode of operation mode of operation is something which is defined in our peel such that all the 6l R\u0027s in the network have to mandatorily support all the primitives that are required by this mode of operation so 6 l ends doesn\u0027t need to support this primitive this is only mandated for 6 hours now it\u0027s 3 bits in size and it\u0027s already exhausted in the sense that if we finish all our work in the existing on the existing documents it will be exhausted so you can see on the left-hand side here the mo P\u0027s there are five six seven which is unused but there are already contending drafts which would like to use those so unless and until we have this extended we won\u0027t be able to proceed with some of these jobs so well it\u0027s a very straightforward extension what we are doing is we are adding a new article control message option it\u0027s essentially we have the existing three bit value if it is seven then it serves as an extension in that case an implementation should go and look for this extended the article control message option and the final mo P should be calculated as the base mo P plus the move the new map X that so in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:29",
    "text": "the table here shows how should you calculate the final mo P it gives you a nice so the reason why we did what this was so that in the future we should be able to refer mo p 0 1 2 3 in the same way that we do refer right now and all the new movies that we add in the future we should be able to incremental e refer from 8 onwards or 7 onwards now this is something new so the primary rationale for supporting this or for introducing this capabilities was there are certain options or certain features in ripple or on the nodes which might be optionally supported now I like I mentioned before the mode of operation is something which all the 6l arts have to mandatory support for example source outing with multicast mode all the six alerts in the network have to Manderley support so it is required but there are certain features which might be optionally supported and by the border router or by the nodes in the network in that case it would be good for the border router to signal such an extension such that nodes can optionally enable it if they require or sixel ends of the 6l ARS can signal their own capabilities such that border router will know whether six Allen\u0027s what are the capabilities supported by the six islands so this capability is a new option again it will carried in Dao and our message and the primary difference with a movie is that it could be optional so the capabilities that are supported well it could be mandatory as well but but it could be optional as well that\u0027s that\u0027s what the point is here so an example use case I was just thinking this is not something that I\u0027ve really thought about in detail but I was thinking six LRH which is which right now doesn\u0027t have a dispatch mechanism there is no way of signaling in the network that the whole all the nodes in the network support six lower edge this could be signal using such kind of an extreme cells such kind such capabilities so most of the most of the the capabilities field is modeled upon existing Aikido 2.11 already have such kind of mechanism so we try to model based on that that kind of information so it\u0027s a very straightforward option we have just the bits specifying new capability options and these these capability flags are what have to be difficulty finding the new specifications well points to ponder so capabilities can essentially be made used over by existing mo peas as well let me clarify here that there is no cross relation cross coupling between mo peas and the capabilities their movie extension and the capabilities there is absolutely none so you can use individually the movie extension leave out the capabilities or you can use capabilities with existing mo peas as well the both these possibilities exist now caps capabilities have to be sent in every dau well that is something that needs further thoughts in fact the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:29",
    "text": "applies for di o as well and the same applies for MA packs or the movie extension we would like to Elia elide it in the future messages its subsequent messaging I don\u0027t know whether we can we can make use of the same we had some time back the i/o configuration option which could be lighted so I\u0027m hoping some similar mechanism can be made use of but that drop is currently expired you hope to we hope we can revive that and we have the author\u0027s here in another thing is the impact on the memory requirement well this is a critical factor that I\u0027m thinking of so now every 6lr can generate a dowel for any of the sub tree nodes by itself please don\u0027t routing into it now does it mean that the capabilities have to be kept in the routing entry if it has to be then it\u0027s a problem it increases the size of the routing entry which is which is which is a very big issue in my opinion and if this is what we see also so some thoughts have to be given there then if it is possible to still use capabilities with this problem or and the next is the capability handshake use case so we have three way handshake already between the border router and the nodes you have the i/o tower and our so the handshake the mechanism is still not described in the document but I don\u0027t know whether working group would like to have such kind of mechanism so yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s all sketchy were here when we thought the map initially it was exclusive like mutually exclusive you were either storing mode or non storing mode etc when we look at the Dow projection it is actually in addition to storing mode often on storing mode right so we cannot easily signal it in replacement of the original mode it\u0027s more it\u0027s an extension but it\u0027s on top of right right so so we need to be able actually to signal things more as capabilities as map really and because you\u0027ll be out on the mesh which is storing an on storing and then you add right storing mode projection or non storing mode it looks like an enumeration of things right so right I don\u0027t know exactly we are not done yet about how we express them but we need to consider but in the future we may have a main mode of operation and then sub mode of operation which are not necessarily supported by everybody right that\u0027s when the capability of the node exact so important the route is to know or I can establish a doubt projection route between this guy and this guy using non-story because I know everybody along the path can support that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:29",
    "text": "precisely the principle that yeah we thought about when introducing the capabilities thank you so thank you comment further comments who have read the draft brain who is willing to do some reviews all I think I say good work because we need that so please add the to do fix it and we can do a working group adoption for that idiom but when you feel yeah I have a question - Cheers so does this mean that before this draft is sort of finished we cannot advance the now projection or go for the mutual so I don\u0027t because it depends on that is the dependency you know the projection is almost finished right we dependency on this one normative normally yeah so yeah we need the yeah with you but that cannot turn into a never see until all the dependent yeah but he won\u0027t anyway in doubt projection there are tickets in security open so we why these kind of mode of operation draft is going on we can address the ticket from our projection so I mean the ticket opens in doubt protection from security considerations so we can address all the the issues then we can prove the Lascaux how much we\u0027re hopeful to dependency be like is it just a matter of tables and ya know registrations or is it more extensive than that depends where we want to take this document well one one kill dependencies how to signal the support of doubt projection right so that one it\u0027s it\u0027s you know it\u0027s easy to to but will need this to be an RFC to be able to build a product which express oh I support doubt projection as to storing us a non-story etc so that\u0027s the easy one the less easy is I have questions still on the doubt projection about things we don\u0027t do in this draft but you need for the global solution so that does not prevent the draft from progressing but that prevents from building a solution like how does the route know how much memory is available on this device so I can establish 10 rods for him how does the route know the topology so this one could not address the GG thing probably but it could address the amount of memory has sort of those capabilities as well you could have options into the caps which size o memory speed CPU wake up whatever it\u0027s some information can you write it in the review on the working group released excuse me can you write this in a review "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:31",
    "text": "of the document which other additions should be are needed for the owl projection you just mentioned a few okay good for me so now the question that I would like to ask is now there are two components here one is their mobile extension and the capabilities if you really want to expedite your mochi extension we can leave capabilities in a different raft do you think we can proceed it in the same capabilities will definitely require more deliberations if we introduce henge that would be more it will add to the complexity maybe two documents count for capabilities another one from mapa extent do you think it\u0027s better I think we need to discuss that in more detail spec precisely the minimum he has to be able for node 2 to tell the route I support out projection storing non-story which is very close to the map it\u0027s just a map the other way because you know you have a main map which is the one which is in the GI unit non-story and then you get this thing in the tell you which in the extension which size oh by the way we also do non-story projected so the route does okay now the device need to respond yes I also like it right and as well I would package that as a bare minimum with this draft no the extension to the caps where I say I get this much memory and whatever else the route would need to know can be a later of C because it\u0027s not you can can be a down the minimum expected memory or anything like that right up configured the route could be configured to know that this device is that at least that much memories throughout the network whatever so we can live without the extensions but it\u0027s very useful to ship this at least with like I have this and the device comes back with this as well yeah okay it seems we need more discussion on need we can put that information in ripple observation strap so a section with that with all their requirements so because it\u0027s a trap that we use yeah because in a drug that we used to so we add in this is easier to discuss because we have like writing right if you agree with that so we can separate the work and depend up or merge against needed agree ready okay thank you very much who is willing to review Georgia\u0027s charges thank you very much what else one more one more well I would review it okay thank you okay Charlie please you are using us we\u0027re mortal danger right sadly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:49",
    "text": "hello I\u0027m Charles Perkins and I\u0027m here to review the modifications to a ODB ripple draft in response to a commis received during last call so oops wrong direction turn it around about that okay so the main thing that was done to the draft was to add us expanded or greatly expanded security considerations section and that ended up being a lot of text for a reason I\u0027ll explain momentarily and then it was also requested that a ODB riffle actually does two things it does peer-to-peer router discovery and it also does Isis Isis bi-directional asymmetric route discovery and then there were some significant editorial improvements that were also incorporated into the draft so about the security considerations the previous section just said hey ODB ripple can use the same security model as RFC 6550 and it was requested for us to be more explicit about that so then the the new security consideration section actually talks about the three modes that are defined in RFC 6550 which are unsecured was basically I think should be interpreted to mean secured by means other than ripple and pre-installed basically just as you install some keys and use those pre-configured shared keys to establish the security of the messages and then there\u0027s an other mode is called authenticated which presumably pre-installed also in authenticates but using the same terminology using the pre-configured shared keys the devices obtain another key that they use for purposes of authentication now it was on purpose not none of the provisions and discussion in this new security consideration sections none of that\u0027s really different than what was already present before but we were able to apply this specifically to the route request and without replying messages from a ODB ripple so I think that we did not introduce any new bugs or anything like that and it\u0027s pretty much as before but much more explicit so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:52",
    "text": "there\u0027s a to specific parts of a OTV ripple that provides advantages one is that that you can find peer-to-peer routes so that they don\u0027t have to go through the route they don\u0027t have to do the up/down routing ripple does and so that has two benefits one is that there\u0027s less interference and congestion nearby the route which can be important than a lot of applications and then also a peer-to-peer allows you to find also be shorter paths yes Pascal yes I want to insist on what you\u0027re just saying she on the shorter path becomes sure off the short actually you can really think different metrics because you don\u0027t have to depend on the fact that the main repo back you see is whatever ITX here you might want to establish a more deterministic path and yeah a very different criteria than the main deck right that that\u0027s a very very important benefit well that\u0027s right so I guess I was a bit hasty when I grew up these slides it really is that the metric is more favorable between so if you want to measure something else perhaps a reliability or whatever yeah it depends on the objective function so I didn\u0027t say that here but you\u0027re exactly right and then the other thing is about the bi-directional asymmetric routes sometimes you can find routes are perhaps even off and you can find routes it wouldn\u0027t be discoverable by normal our triple means so that\u0027s almost all of it it was pointed out that we were using a target and introduction when we didn\u0027t define what it meant so we just expanded that out to be target note and some of the references were not normative and they were moved to informational and then there was some verbiage around sequence number implementation that was not clear so I made that clear and then it\u0027s hard the normal number of spelling and grammatical syntax Corrections amazing how many times you can read through a draft is still miss so spilling or but that\u0027s that\u0027s pretty much it and now hopefully we\u0027ve resolved the comments and if we can progress the draft I think is ready oh that\u0027s it next steps well we believe that the document is ready so we are going to do after the idea one week last call like so to confirm that if you please read the last version and and yes special security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:54",
    "text": "considerations and let let us update us know your comments but I mean for us the East Grady okay well thank you again for your comments please Pascal please okay so back to the Dow projection draft so number of changes first is we asked Matt to actually contribute from these operational experience and implementation experience so that\u0027s a new thing on this and the latest publication we have added text on which conditions could actually cause rots it\u0027s really superposition of different routes installed by different persons like the domain rod installed by the background repo and then the storing node storing mode projected route and then a non storing run and you could actually in some cases I mean we\u0027re two loops so we we are proposing a number of ways to alleviate that and limitations on what you can do so you don\u0027t get into these cases my feeling is you should not basically try to have too many things at the same time on the same network I think a main mode and then one projection mode should be enough for what for a given use case for instance if you have a long lines a long line of meters then you would use a non storing mode for the network and then for this long line you would just do storing mode along the line to just save the raw together along that line but then at the same time would you be using storing mode projected route in that area I have trouble believing it so to be a dozen natural it makes sense to try to put too many things on the same network so maybe we can have recommendations like that as a main mode and then project in mode one of them then you\u0027re not creating the slips I guess and then we\u0027re missing maybe it\u0027s better now happy tears and people could review it we are missing a good text on what happens if there is a kitchen so we have added a new ICMP type actually to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:56",
    "text": "re-explain instead of the traditional repo ICMP row that you had in no story node we actually created a new type so that you can describe that the problem is not jus funston\u0027s to the underneath non storing mode but tree to the projected route itself know the route can you know if you are not storing the route will get if there is a problem along the path right you\u0027re following a routing inner and the next hop is not there so you have to send an ICMP error which is defined in RFC sixty sixty five fifty that tells you I have this error on my project on mine lost on path now if we use the same ICMP arrow and it\u0027s a project in route then the route may wonder which of those two those two through that node is causing a problem and so we have a new type now to indicate the promise in the projected route oh it\u0027s in the background run this way that\u0027s the change but then again is new tags so if people want to have a closer look at basically what happens when there is a breakage do we signal it correctly can we repair it correctly etcetera let\u0027s please review that and discussions are pretty much outside the scope of this draft that\u0027s the map discussion that we just heard switch listed somewhere on this Friday yes yes and there is the first problem is how does the route even know the topology in non storing mode the route knows kind of a tree our dag but it doesn\u0027t know the neighbors the peers at the same rank so that\u0027s that\u0027s one thing that that not propagated to route and in storing mode there\u0027s nothing pretty much from topologically speaking it does nothing it\u0027s a distance vector it doesn\u0027t see thing so should we have a draft somewhere in this group so my house is it something which which should be in another group how do we express the topology to do that one thing is missing so they kept ability yes we have the the map extension draft we could actually have options in the capabilities to say amount of memory amount of laborers whatever house could be needed throughput capability battery level I don\u0027t know so so matrix pretty much very close to the metric container that we have but it would be a capability container or something that we could sell to to the route and so if you have to ship the map X rapidly then this should be a different draft radiator and after that there is a traditional recall thing is we never compressed repo itself now we\u0027ve FCAT 138 we compressed the data path but we never comprised the contraband we said let\u0027s express things naturally and then we\u0027ll do a compression of it later but we never did and so here again if you have a via option which is an on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:57",
    "text": "storing so it\u0027s going you will have a number of hops in there it\u0027s gonna take someone right it\u0027s going to be a big packet so should we already think about compression when do we think about compression it\u0027s a much more generic crime than just this draft that is everything control in the repo so you already hear people tell you a I can\u0027t sound my Dow MIT i/o with all the options I want it to because I don\u0027t have em to you for so I have to send multiple messages so sometimes compression will alleviate that created it and so it\u0027s all questions which are kind of raised by this draft which are not inherent to the draft itself but it\u0027s it\u0027s questions for the group so the most urgent we really need is the capability because if the route doesn\u0027t know I can do story I can do read projection I have that much memory you can install five routes for me or ten routes for me know if the route doesn\u0027t know that what can you do and I don\u0027t expect that from a couple of GE expression protocol that expressed apology it\u0027s really inside of the of the device I\u0027m pretty sure that belongs to us now all the topology descriptor and stuff like that I mean there are STIs and on OC count those groups they may have something that we could use in its day all night below but for the inside capabilities of the device again I think it belongs here but pretty much it comments on these new topics to address each other so I think the compression has to be it\u0027s a straightforward I feel it is required based on the implementation that I tried I tried doing it with you said you said you tried to do it with one Yasmani and some into the microphone but I don\u0027t know about what so of course it\u0027s always a problem in the design of a particular whether you design it in uncompressed form and trust somebody else during the compression for you so for instance if there were something like six know our age that might do the compression for you all you compress right in the protocol so there are all these various forms source routing where you have ways of combining lists with different length which takes the prefixes from the previous entry and things like that so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:59",
    "text": "there\u0027s a rich to take ideas from and and I quite know what I would prefer here and eh Deno well JC is if you don\u0027t know what you will be transporting this is a good way to forget compression if you do know what you were transporting you can always get better compression with a bespoke model so I think I mean if C solves your problem go ahead and use it well you gave a perfect example right a RFC 8 138 allows you to compress the next at rise because that\u0027s the same prefix in part as the previous address and things like that and that that\u0027s how we comprise the rotten either in 6rh or the data path and it makes a lot of sense to compress the rotten leader that we have in the projected route in the exact same fashion right this is insane but when we did 8130 aching this book not there is no watch me the thing back but they ate so we could we could do the extension for the ripple control plane in there yes and fall for the for the reusing implementation complexity it\u0027s always so nice to reuse data structures so if we have a data structure that occurs in sixth or H that makes sense here we could just say use the same data structure more comments it will be nice if you can add all these topics in the ribbon observations wrap so we can address them otherwise we can open tickets as well but I think a you have like a draw forward yes I think he\u0027s better thank you very much I\u0027m Pascal you can as well see them immediately ma invented the Middle East like asking for suggestions if you about this topic what do you say yeah yeah okay it continued in me thank you Abbas can you it\u0027s a lot of like that for people interested in a topic that I don\u0027t speak them okay so I presented those slides at six slow a bit were like just before this meeting so so this is the context in which the unaware leaf operates this context is a set of four RFC\u0027s which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:01",
    "text": "basically enable or extend RFC 6775 and provide a trusted registration whereby you can register on the trials obtain routing services and that can be proxy ng that can be rapport that can be anything and then there is a way to prove that you\u0027re the owner or the address that was registered and for which your services is being granted so this is a set of of trash actually one of them became our Shi for five and and the other are following so that\u0027s pretty much the story that was standing here at 505 is a registration it\u0027s a layer 3 version of the Wi-Fi Association you tell your router in advance at your share so that we won\u0027t have to answer to broadcast or do not speak at first off or that the backbone router is the proxy Andy so if the wireless guys a Wi-Fi device or cheating for device registers the backbone router or proxy indeed the back on water condition the device on these on that side even if the device is slipping and IP Indies the same the security variation for that model well by the address that\u0027s being registered associated with a cryptographic token so we can prove later the ownership so the device moves and wants to to say all these IP addresses there was here on out there oh are you the same guy are you trying to steal the address of that guy no I can prove it\u0027s me because I have this cryptographic token which is like a public key so I can prove I have the private key like I\u0027m not stealing your ice and water that\u0027s what I can with that and there is this new work that sits low which is about using the method that we have in our state five of I\u0027ve inherited from 6775 well we have a registrar a social racetrack called a 6lv are they we would have it on the backbone so you can do the traditional labor discovery in unicast so when you have a new address you just don\u0027t do that you also populate this registrar so next time somebody does that you can ask the transfer registrar and and he knows that that your drives are in taken doesn\u0027t do a broadcast as I need to write someone second et cetera it already knows the transistor ok so I won\u0027t go through this slides down a hard back up ok so the ripple counter part of this is remember I told you are CH 505 enable a host a sit Ln which doesn\u0027t know that the network is being a repo network or she is attaching to a switch infrastructure or anything else it just enables this device to say mr. rotter you\u0027re my router you\u0027re protecting me I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "can sleep and we\u0027ll store my packet whatever I trust you to do this routing service for me and now I can go to see routing service could be and the proxy with the backbone router another one is ripple so when we rotate 505 we write care to make sure what was needed for repo was actually there and there is actually no back field which must be populated a certain way when you want ripple services but which much on the fields that needs to be injected via dowel by the router are present in this association process so the association registration is lethal agnostic but it has all that ripple needs that\u0027s pretty much what this drug does so it\u0027s been around for a little while now we have added multicast address which match the way we call supports them we yes we have added applicability text as well the the see is real 9505 in the more hundred sixty-seven cents right update because that one is pastor RC but perfect but before we adopt this can we fix the name because this is what hosts we have this forty five year or town that we use for post the things that other browsers are hosts in the IDF and this is really about host requirements no for ripple it\u0027s really about what a repo rotterdam when the host when the host uses out eight five four five so ok h 505 is a host or router operation yes but it doesn\u0027t say what the router does if the router is a ripple rata this one is only inside the repo router what do you do if you get a registration which is repo agnostic if you are river Rother what do you do to turn that into it down so it\u0027s really thorough operation that\u0027s what it is it\u0027s it\u0027s a repo router getting a registration and turning it into a doubt so you are making no requirements on hosts hosts that\u0027s the design that affects 505 so we just published at 505 with in mind to be able to do this now there is one field which I just mentioned which is the OPAC field in which a node which is vaguely aware that there is some repo layer or something similar to repo will pass the instance ID because repo has this concept of instanceid so there is some vague text in H 5 4 5 which says you have this topic field you can pass some information for the routing protocol and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:04",
    "text": "if you face it the Roger protocol would be happy and in that traffic we are saying hey by the way if your host but you know what you\u0027re doing and you\u0027re attaching to a repo pass for instance I give you get one but the only field which is but but if have a purely 6lowpan age five or five devices it will join the instance zero it\u0027s going to be very happy okay so the point here is that the host router model is extended by something that can be supplied to help routing packets to and from this post if you\u0027re talking about the Chi ID never about the instance ID I just mentioned but it\u0027s in the official at 5:05 independently of people so it 505 specifies the Chi ID we specifies it and size job because we need a sequence counter when we have mobility so we needed one oh we copied the text in red ball so it\u0027s perfectly compatible fine we could have picked just a normal sequence counter increment oh but we pick the one which is easier to convert into ripple because we knew wanted to do it but it\u0027s the we H five four five tells any lambda random 6ln to use to our GID yes regardless of whether those ripple Noriko so this document essentially has two parts one is mixed engine of 80 505 to put this instance again well yes which is one line but yes if you like the other one is yes MSB one sentence which says yes if you have an instance idea 269 put it the other yeah [Music] well if we convey the fact that the host attaching to ripple Network and from the ripple because it\u0027s most it\u0027s a Reaper router consideration it\u0027s a Reaper water thing right they don\u0027t know that this one so their hosts love them that\u0027s we are specifying we\u0027re specifying the router for their leaves and since the river otters these are leaves I don\u0027t mind it\u0027s because people so used to the town if so found this book Ravager so we have correctly we have three things that risks the tid and the OPEC idea which carries the instance ID right so now based on our previous decision just the talk before now we are having more information that the node is sending to the now are we going to extend no because the information we are sending in this not here\u0027s a router thing it\u0027s not a host thing so it\u0027s the router capability that you are exposing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "not the leaf capability this is about what the router does bite sleeves but it doesn\u0027t announce the capabilities well okay and only the leaves this is about non ripple aware leaves of hosts right but it\u0027s the ripple treatment the treatment by a repo router for a host which is a six align and doesn\u0027t even know it\u0027s attaching to it was H by four five five designed to enabled which was just okay what\u0027s your rocker thank you for Scott will you please alienated manual terminology cause what means host for this document like host the goal and yes if I read custard is if I change leave to host it means I don\u0027t have to be fighting remember a because hopefully people know what the host is that\u0027s the whole point of turning to host right but but anyway will you add because if you mention in the document I know that is I read it Anna is like a leaf is mentioned in the in the description now in terminology we want to if you could add please in the terminology section like what means host for the drop from the point of view of the draft it\u0027s like a Rooter yeah like a rope router without telling us because yeah yeah so if I don\u0027t choose Reaper unaware leaf I will use repair know where 6lm will not choose yeah because if you need yeah because it\u0027s mentioned in the document they would hold like leave in the in the same so but okay thank you okay yeah okay thank you so that the term leaf is actually defined in 6550 as usual it\u0027s not the terminology section but it\u0027s being used there extensively and different yeah but yeah we could add in this document leaf in the terminology section I agree with Justin but I\u0027m not saying leave here I\u0027m saying ripple unawareness because the the norm of the leaf in 6550 is a ripple of where a leaf so so the reaper unaware leaf is the new beast or this one yeah but wait a movie icon units etcetera yeah okay so of the issue but we already okay but anyway if you can add these kind of a specification terminology because we have a ripple and we\u0027re leaf and repel warily like people leaves okay thank you thank you both got more comments on and after who has read the drown "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:10",
    "text": "so that the the Cosmo and the one comment that I would like to add is once you add something to the host router interface of course the interesting question is who aids might want to use this who else might want to use this how do you do I use this in - red networking I mean right now I can\u0027t you got straight doesn\u0027t define it but so it\u0027s dead something that has a potential to generalize it there actually is so far unless rift we moved it all change the wording of it but there were actually three drugs which would use H five four five as the host router expression that the host needs to services from the rod or the instance ID is no pack so maybe this is not even the right room grass the question I mean people who are thinking about how the router interfaces can they use this opaque thing for for interesting things and if yes is there any requirement following from this that should go into this design and this this but yeah I would prefer to have it in but I\u0027m just saying when we design something like this you look a little bit on the envelope and see who else might want to use this and if yes do they have any requirements that it I can easily accommodate by design even in a certain way so agree with you and we actually went through that so that\u0027s why rift points on its backbone router points on it and ripple points so we have at least three customers that\u0027s the one and that\u0027s when you have basically a node which moves across a rotten fabric because you want to note just wanted to say to a little bit of legwork there and other people have similar problems presenting okay thank you for the comment okay after a like a do like a clean my cleanup of terminology we can call for adoption okay more comments okay thank you and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:12",
    "text": "the next one is a DS a surprise to the slice that was one which we did not read this cascade can you go back one slide for a second yes the ups yes this working because there is something in this draft which I don\u0027t think is a good idea I just made exercise of enabling it but the sixties architecture says it should not be that way and I think when I read 67 75 it\u0027s also the same way so okay 67 75 introduced to the Beast which it called 6lv on thy name it\u0027s a god or otter that\u0027s what the B eyes for my function it\u0027s a registrar that\u0027s when you put the list of IP addresses that are in your network and should at least be hosted by a border router I don\u0027t know I mean maybe yes maybe no maybe it can be somewhere in the cloud and so we have this big confusion of name and function and now we\u0027d be of this aggregated saying with with the backbone backbone routers etc and the question comes whether the 6lv are which my name is about the router should be the root of the ripple Network which is the Bob the border otter for repo right so should we actually make it so and force that the six LPR is always the route in if so so it\u0027s true to its name if it is then you don\u0027t need this weird stuff that you have here with people I\u0027ve dark etcetera because if there are a different beast and you must have a mechanic some mechanics between the route which knows you know through the down process the route knows who\u0027s there and the 6lv armies to know who\u0027s still alive because it will time out registration as a time out if you want to maintain the status six and VR you must periodically tell the six MVR I\u0027m still there but part of what we do in this draft is we use the down for that so you don\u0027t have to send it down and then - - sending two messages that of one is a waste throughout the whole network so this draft saves that because it says if the route gets the the down and the route is co-located with the six lvr then by the way I think about refreshing the states in the six and y are the guy\u0027s not dead right if we separate them there must be this keep alive that you see in this slot between the two is it worth it I don\u0027t know I have another question I am as using ripple does they know the concept of a sexy lbr repo has only the concept of a route okay that\u0027s you say we equate the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:14",
    "text": "route to the 600 BR between these two now if you don\u0027t do it this way which is the way we\u0027d only do it that\u0027s already architecture recommends to do it in six - if you don\u0027t do it you will have to communicate between those two to save this message through it all the mesh happening twice I think it will combining it\u0027s good combining it\u0027s good yeah so in that case I can remove that text and say yeah we make yeah but we can\u0027t send an email to the many days eating I mean yeah I mean yeah there\u0027s a point fitting the route Sylvio yeah if we can I mean I think I get we get optimization any meaner than this keep alive messages so we we can do it I think it\u0027s the right thing to do okay thank you so hi I\u0027m iris I think the continuation of our work on an extension to the dog metric container for storing a parent set to enable PRA so we have updated the draft we review from Diego and now has given us some extra comments so he pointed out that we have we had a strict dependence on 6 days and we removed that none of this world depends on 6 dish we also added the explanation of how a turret parrot selection can work one of the methods which we have been using internally but it\u0027s just an option and for some some sections of the draft we have made the prescriptions well on what to use a bit more flexible so for example you can use any alternative parrot selection with this extension and the different nodes can use different alternative selections we don\u0027t prescribe some that all the nodes must use the exact same method there\u0027s no reason finally I think following ruffles comment also it is conceivable that you could have different requirements for replication on different paths so we have allowed that this one finally we did some an appendix with some implementation details and some results as far as the implementation itself is concerned we implemented the silks Laura based address compression so the extension contains ipv6 addresses and we have implemented the ability to compress them based on the same idea and for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:14",
    "text": "implementation we have used the reference address based on which we do the compression to be the dog ID which has the drawback discuss later and there is also an example of how to use it in the source code as a brief overview I\u0027ll go over this quite quickly we discussed this a lot of times so the idea here for dystrophy is to try to have some form of determinism to have higher and have higher reliability with low jitter and bounded delay and the idea is to do PR a to send multiple copies of a packet over different paths so that we can achieve that and the problem is that if you don\u0027t control how you spread the packets around you basically have flooding and it\u0027s also harder to keep jitter low because you can have very weird paths along the dodok so in this draft will basically propose some information that can help you achieve that the idea looks like this more or less so you have a source node that sent some information it has the default path which is a solid line and it might try to create an alternative path through the dashed line so it replicates information to both a and B but you want to send the information to be finally right to be where one of the copy will be eliminated if it doesn\u0027t go to the end go to some other node to the side then you want to packet elimination and this leads to flooding in order to select where you will which will be the alternate opponent which you will send information you need some extra information to guide you so in this sense what we are sending is the parent set of the potential parents to which you will replicate so you know which are the parents in the parent set of a and B and that helps us choose who it will replicate to this is a standard Dao format and within it there is a dag metric container and for our extension we are extending with the NS a metal container type we are adding a new TLV which contains now with the six Laura address compression it has a es it has sorry it has the six Laura type which is as in the reference for as a matter of c8 158 it contains this one of these values to indicate how many bit of the prefix are alighted in the compressed addresses and it also contains the other says themselves this had some overhead it adds one byte of overhead in this new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:14",
    "text": "version of the draft we prescribe that you must use six lower compression on the addresses but in the previous version who said it\u0027s optional but in okay and yeah this is just normal six Laura compression you decide which is the most common denominator prefix and is based on this there is a limitation here that all the addresses are compressed to the exact same prefix so if for whatever reason that a bigger difference between the others is you want such an efficient compression level and here we have an example of how this would work so one of the proposed methods of parted parent selection is called see a medium common ancestor medium so in this case one would the default path is from s to a and wet and you want to evaluate B 1 B 2 and B 3 who who will choose to be the alternative parent so in this case B 1 will be rejected because its parent set D and it does not contain F the default grandparent and we can choose either b2 or b3 because both their parents hence contain F there\u0027s other ways of doing this in the draft depending on how you do it you might have more or less flooding and more or less energy consumption and more or less related so this document was adopted the previous meeting we have the code implemented the github repository we have one sharp design dissectors for it but we haven\u0027t implemented the decoding for the six lower compressed addresses we are going to do it and we addressed the review comment from Rahul so there is issue whether we would like to discuss the scope of this draft so do we keep this simple just a small extension to an optional field in the diag metal container which contains this information or do you want to actually prescribe specific methods of implementing with this alternative para insurrection that uses this information and in discussions we\u0027ve had with my impression polls that would prefer to keep it simple but someone has a different opinion actually Rahul\u0027s comments into this raha Java so my comment was that we have some specific information about the parents which is the mean based on the based on Michael strap the mean minimum priority yes and that we should include here because that is this is actually have another point okay right so it is a complicated thing in my opinion you know there are that there are two things you mentioned that the parent selection logic yeah that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:14",
    "text": "that that is something very specific to implementation those are implementation guidelines yeah it\u0027s great to have in the document in my opinion but as an example you mean here okay okay so the one thing is the information itself carried and how you use it maybe you can give an example but actually it\u0027s up to you it\u0027s an implementation detail or maybe there can be another draft something specific but at this point this is just an idea and then you have the third point here which discusses aiding correctly enrollment was that it or not the unknown oh sorry so it was the idea that Rahul had was in addition to the parent set itself to add for each parent priority level so it will quantify and you don\u0027t just have the order of preference between the parent which parents in the parents that are ordered based on rank you also have a quantification of how much preference you have for each of those parents so maybe you can use it for whatever you might want to use it and actually doing that is not that complicated we can reserve a bit from the six Laura type which and if that bit is present that you know that you also have an optional bite for the priority body I don\u0027t know what that sounds like Rahul shadow so the six lower edge type is defined in this specification in this room no we\u0027re just reusing the so here this is actually a table from the form RFC eight 138 I just copied it exactly as it is so we are just reusing the definition of there was no recent torture we create something over own but this thing actually is the holy right so you can use one bit to to indicate that this optional preference value is present or not is that over-engineering it so in a 28 how many how many bits are result for six varnish time it\u0027s five days so there\u0027s another three available and yeah we are raising it but we\u0027re constrained by whatever that RFC does right I just reused it because there\u0027s no reason to think of something on my own right yes okay well that\u0027s basically I don\u0027t know if someone would like to provide another review or what someone want to review this wrap please thank you okay thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:15",
    "text": "you thank you very much someone else please [Laughter] yeah okay we are going to ask for the so next States will be address their issues that you have pending two more reviews reviews yes the answer from the wings on fear to me about the drop spoke prescribed specific ap selection methods topside so do we need another drafts where we are going to define how to selects not endpoint which here we are going to give an example right so we are going to find that there is an existing section and I think that should be there I mean the existing the see a mechanism that the three mechanisms that we can keep that in the draft okay that\u0027s an example in the I think it\u0027s already there is example is already there the draft already have explains the three mechanisms as well okay so about the priority optional prayer devalue I don\u0027t know if anyone has a preference to include it or not I\u0027m guessing that you\u0027re for it but since you proposed [Music] it was proposed there but it six dish has nothing much to add to it right and it\u0027s wrong Parliament then found maybe will be interested so after few reviews we can do the working group that\u0027s good thank you very much and next I want three introduce myself okay so this is another draft regarding load balancing so this is an objective function that tries to load balance notes based on the traffic load they experience so again thanks to Rahul for his review we did a small rename to what properly reflect what this value is there is a value which decides the monitoring for throughput over which window is being performed on original it was called the period it\u0027s renamed to a window which is more accurate because it\u0027s actually a sliding window that\u0027s how it\u0027s designed to work and we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:17",
    "text": "extended the draft a bit to make the configuration of how information is reported and recorded a bit more X and more configurable more flexible so there are two things that a node will have to do it will need to monitor traffic over a throughput window and that loop on window size in terms of time duration it has a time unit and in the original draft that was hard-coded and now we added some tlvs that allow you to configure that so the route can say you know what I want you to want on traffic over five minutes or five seconds or five hours you can also have the card coded or you can use whatever external configuration you might want coop or whatever else to also convey this information there\u0027s also mention in the new version to the oscillation issues that Pascal mentioned so he said that normally what will happen is that as to parent one gets a bit lighter and load all other nodes will switch to it and it will get overloaded and then once it get overloaded it the traffic will switch to the other one which now is lighter in traffic you so we have one oscillation between multiple parents as an issue and we have mentioned it but at this point we don\u0027t have a solution for that and following Rahul\u0027s reviews also we have defined how the bits in the metric the PCO are a bits are used should be used so I mean this objective function works with I did some antics all that anyway that\u0027s a mistake at its minimum semantics so the information used needs the minimum function aggregation function on the information so we added definition how that is going to be used the context of this is that have different objective functions like all-zero and mr. Huff which use typically TX or generally additive matrix but none of them don\u0027t actually perform something that can load balance based on traffic and there is a proposal for the load balanced Oh F that you the chart kind of apparent but if you have children if you have note which have different traffic requirements that won\u0027t work so we are trying to if you use one of these objective functions then you have nodes which will be overloaded some daughters which will be overloaded that will lower network and node lifetime you have maybe packet losses which are higher if you overflow your quick use or higher packet delay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:19",
    "text": "as an example here if you have two potential daughter to connect to and you have that node see it should connect to dock to since it has more available bandwidth more available resources for forward the traffic but since normal object the conscience don\u0027t know about that it might collect to the other one and experience packet loss now etx won\u0027t correct that over time but it will take some time for that to be corrected and we\u0027re trying to help nodes connect directly to a note that already has the capacity to spare so we are proposing a metric called remaining throughput and when it\u0027s used is used aggregated with a minimum function so a parent node sense I have for example the ability to send five packets per second and it it\u0027s received to a child node that child node has a capacity for word only three packets per second so when that child will report its own remaining food metric the value will be three so goes down obviously as we go further down you are using a sliding window and that sliding window tracks to put available to put capacity and that\u0027s basically the the capacity that you have - what you have been using so you need to implement some tracking in the code to check what spare capacity hub the idea is that the objective function will pick the as a preferred parent one of the potential parents which has the highest remaining flow hood and you can use it with a hysteresis function like in mr. Hawk to reduce somewhat the oscillations not lately but it\u0027s somewhat dampening it the structure of the metric is like this you have the typical header coral matrix and the remaining throughput is two byte unsigned integer and you can use it as a constraint as well so you can say that I own to connect to note that have at least five packets per second remaining report and we also added these two optional DLP\u0027s one is to define how big the window is so that\u0027s it in bits and allows you to define the window size in time and the time units use for this are also LV which expresses the window time unit in multiples of a millisecond its but 8-bit and it\u0027s the power it\u0027s a power of two so if it\u0027s zero then you have one millisecond time unit it 255 then you have until the thermal death of the universe finally we\u0027d like to we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:24",
    "text": "addressing the issue of enrollment so this information can be used when you\u0027re trying to join a network through a media player to and you can convert this remaining throughput into a one priority value like this and you can also use it as normal whenever you\u0027re initially turning a ripple Network to pick the dog directly with which has the maximum remaining throughput basically if you\u0027re using the aggregation of minimum whichever note you\u0027re connecting to it already knows which is the available remaining throughput through that path all the way to learn so we have reviewed this Draft has been reviewed by some addresses comments more or less we have an implementation which is almost ready and we have to solve the issue of oscillations which both recommend Pascal have addressed so I don\u0027t know what the next steps would be yes I\u0027d like to clarification on the additive properties of the metric there are none well okay so first case I have in mind is I have two parrots each one tell me they have 10 left yes as if in a of 20 no I know what you were discussing this about how you could split maybe the traffic so that you don\u0027t have the oscillations and maybe you can use it to they told it then you know so you\u0027re using the tree that smell okay so now say the bandwidth of the link is typically 100 right and my my dad says I 50 left so I see all 50 nice I need five let me jump to him and then I children so I disposed to 55 right because I used five out of the 50 well left is 45 at least this so he\u0027s post 45 and no children come in come in come in and they join me and they use this 45 yeah so far so good and now I need to move to another parent they see a parent which exposes that 20 is left I needed me farms yeah so I\u0027m fine let me move to him but then the children will be stopped not necessarily so you will be tracking your throughput including what you\u0027re forwarding so you will know that it\u0027s not just 5 so when you when you\u0027re calculating your used throughput what you have been using out of your capacity you\u0027re not counting just what you are using what is originating at that host but also what you have been forwarding at least that\u0027s how we implemented it so you won\u0027t have that from your right if you are just recording your own then you will not have that issue does that make sense okay thank you so next step will be like a fix this issue oscillation and level sound you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:26",
    "text": "can ask for help to the main initiative and then we can build a working group that\u0027s adoption okay thank you thank you thank you very much funny comments pass more comments no I\u0027m Henry with a new TV like a testbed evaluation in Kentucky 3.0 I I\u0027m I\u0027m working in my PhD thesis and the routing protocol and I used comprising four mice mine and I rip out there are some interesting scenarios where I I think something to say about Twitter so we we are in so context or essence we we shown three scenarios the first one is a simple scenario where we just put some notes together and then after well because I am working on a similar thing we try to put some isometric links into the network so we put to death note and after we run into another experiment with a muted note and we try to see what happens with River okay so first point is that a symmetric and I\u0027m not completely stupid there it\u0027s mainly to theoretical explanation of them the first one is environment itself you can have intestines that focus on one up and not on the other and the second point is that we have different hard whales and it is a ranch between the emission from the transmission power and the reception threshold is different between notes if one node has a bigger one or tiniest one and Tonja one we we are interested to clear our signature case so in artists that we often study that they are rare birds exists even without treating to Reyes so the first love you first now you use it for tech giant notes we just put out you can note together put one thing and we\u0027ll record what happens doing to house we have a deputation layer one UDP query response every five it\u0027s traffic we\u0027ve decided we use the feature our utilities then so it\u0027s a French that\u0027s been deployed in the labs in some laboratory Suites I think and we use the notes from zr2 to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:26",
    "text": "test how thanks we use the kontiki limitation of rivers of we don\u0027t do not tweak slots we should choose the default parameters and use mr. function and why do you do setting and then we obtained this done so this is the mind argued we we see that we contacted that we never is number of name of pipe which is and what we are is with recording so there is a time you know isn\u0027t all you gots what is the number of packets recorded by minute every minute per minute and we have at both we have the production tremendous traffic and video we have the host shoots maintenance traffic so we have at the beginning of course we have many trial and in many traffic to build the tree and after it is more stable and we notice mainly three kind of traffic first one is the broadcast via traffic it is trickled okay no program we have opportunities three packets per minute in the water network then we are also hosted maintenance for daos we have recorded approximately ten packets per minute for also network so little less hawkish note across and then we have noticed czar says that there is many unique at the i/o packets in in this situation which is in fact a pro being where each node needs to probe its neighbors to keep an estimation of the link between between them and we have recorded that there is approximately 2000 mute for this kind of traffic so in fact doesn\u0027t define explicitly the the usage of unicast di of it expects an external mechanic to be triggered to verify link properties okay also mr. function says that we should compute the path cost to to each candidate neighbor okay but we do not know how to do that and so kontiki decided to implementation decided to use unique at CI o--\u0027s for that but it is not well defined in fact so on one side we need to a way to estimate a link listening quality between each node and observable society it is for now left alone by variable itself because it\u0027s not really a routing protocol problem it\u0027s more link local problem so the question is there that I rise i I\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:26",
    "text": "raised questions money I give themselves is that can can go as no as a ripple node can I can I receive a unique idea what should i what should should be my behavior to that for example do they count as redundancy for trigger on one side yes she should because this is improv those who knowledge of the topology but another sides are non broadcast packets so the doesn\u0027t count in konschak interventions accounts but we don\u0027t really know what to do on that also what about traffic event we have seen that it is 20 packets per minute so it\u0027s bigger than than what\u0027s when ripple yeah reset does it\u0027s about nature should counted this is not in the protocol right I mean they are sending by using this message as a probe for the mink it appears because we expected neighbor discovery sorry for doing that or a click layout nourishment but basically trickle is about eliminating broadcast di ohms right because you don\u0027t need too many you\u0027re sure that this guy will receive the broadcast da yo if you\u0027ve seen four or five or around you sure it\u0027s a big well because at the edge of the network\u0027s not true but inside the network if you\u0027ve heard like 5 di O\u0027s you say oh my neighbor\u0027s got it let\u0027s do 5 so I have no points anyone but if they were a unicast the I use my neighbors did not get them because they didn\u0027t care they were unique as for me so they don\u0027t count us redundancy they are not redundant the dirty dozen seeds for me not to send my broadcast because this guy already got it from this it doesn\u0027t exist so we can specify it but it\u0027s about to come Rahul shadow so it should not be counted and the specification clearly mentions that then is the section it says how to handle unicast yeah it clearly says that difficult time you should not be reset it I don\u0027t know about the redundancy for particularly but there is a specific section in unicast D how to handle unicast yeah there is a specific reference saying that you should not be significant sorry yes okay so quantity quantity uses unica\u0027s discs because I also have used contact you know I assume you talk to Ma something I talked to see mode you can walk about this see mo is the guy who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:28",
    "text": "wrote did you talk to him no never why not okay he\u0027s really nice so so he it\u0027s a real strange thing that he did that he doesn\u0027t Kentucky and so what you measure is not really representative six five five zero and the tricks that he plays are compliant but they\u0027re tricks that are not explained exactly here so you will not find in six five five zero the reason why he\u0027s doing that if I remember correctly and somebody can correct me he\u0027s not using the unique ID I used to probe the link to see like how good the PDR is he\u0027s using it to do a weird way of local repair so that in case he detects a loop he starts by unicasting the iOS all of his neighbor\u0027s so he gets an acknowledgment so he is sure that his neighbors haven\u0027t updated the information I\u0027m that\u0027s very fuzzy as I\u0027m saying because I don\u0027t I don\u0027t really remember but I\u0027m just telling you you know okay will not find the answer in c50 and the fact that you have so many UCSD iOS is not representative six five zero it\u0027s representative of the tricks that Seema had to play to have to get through those five 9s download reliability paper at your setting okay that maybe I don\u0027t then we should not have a competent because yeah you background traffic isn\u0027t it ask Seymour okay all right thank you so based on my understanding of what Connecticut does is it tries to prove whether the preferred parent is still there and the probing duration is all configurable so but it depends upon your scenario so if you actually have unique edge traffic then it should not come into which so but in your case the UNIX traffic is every five once every five minutes or something like that so maybe that is why it is coming in the picture thank you so I can see you with the next experiment so we put the Deaf node into the network so deaf not just a majority and receives Russia - no messages we just take some less less client in to expand to make no and we have this result which is kind of hopeless we have continued daya is mission and then continue street to tie now Ridgid so it\u0027s not very surprising to us so many "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:28",
    "text": "[Music] the only point is where that where is the question we expect the link layer detects asymmetry and blacklist go kind of like it interrupts the communication between them but the point is that the link layer cannot detect that the link is a symmetric because the packets are broadcasted so no not acknowledged so only a ripple knows that\u0027s the link it\u0027s a guess that the link is that symmetric because we send you messages and so now so we mod know continue to send GIS so we will note that it is a symmetric and maybe link layer or repel we don\u0027t really know should stop that and it is not well-defined in fact is a injections shadow so this is a very interesting topic action so you\u0027ve mentioned black testing here but black listing is difficult to do because it requires number so you once you need even to start keeping the MAC address and the flag it means a lot of memory based on the density of the nodes it\u0027s not very easy so what you\u0027re saying is you broadcast the Paranal podcaster yeah and the idea is received by the channel but it\u0027s not able to send back a tau or tau F or for some reason it feels it knows that has failed so at least it can blacklist but the blacklisting introduces memory in curves memory back against a node by a missile attack against a node so you replace the attack on the batteries to the attack of memory as you could you could send these four mini addresses all right basically the point is the node should Swatow it\u0027s the iOS so asked not window sensor Mayo\u0027s and that\u0027s exactly what it does because we have Treecko and you have a nice hero and I mean Facebook and and so basically if you if you have network while you think you can have this sort of prime don\u0027t put the minimum trick on too low and that\u0027s exactly what it does it\u0027s wattles the initial FDR used to the minimum the I mean now can this be improved yes some people were working on it and the fact to reset the - - I - I zero since Robin is it a good idea well it can be debated that point but I don\u0027t think we need to blacklist anything like it\u0027s a way to get more attacks against our devices should we throttle yes I\u0027ve actually we do with triple strategies so it\u0027s all a matter of to do should be reduced at Rico and each situation and there is a draft in there so it\u0027s an interesting observation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:34",
    "text": "the only point I think is the D is modification draft talk about filtering the rumors from the IATA meeting note the D is emitting node sighs don\u0027t be such a trickle tell you she don\u0027t reset your trickle timer then you will slaughter a lot more yeah but in this situation that not will we will ask - rather the trickle timer isn\u0027t it I don\u0027t know it\u0027s steep as much as we could think about no protections our rotor can protect itself there\u0027s a point where if there is a babbling idiot which is what we call this thing which keeps babbling idiot with the Geisha some network management of any form should realize something\u0027s wrong take the device out we can\u0027t program into small devices all the situations and now at some point in this network management there is whether we should know about the symmetric links and do something about them I think yes I have a draft and others on the shelf somewhere but actually Charlie found at some point that\u0027s why we call devious means yes to do things in this matrix and yes we know what to do with that now purely mute no account because you cannot well maybe sounded this but you cannot do anything else and until you have a three-wide and so until you have asserted that you can talk to the water but maybe Sunday this you can yes yeah right you have not the same range now understand that this ice which we can happen with pure mute you very well case as I thought don\u0027t you know how repo we watch it in recovered that there is an assert that the link is be directional before you can use it and they all say you telling me yeah you\u0027re using it for a link that\u0027s not be directional so maybe for sending your tests we left weapon that this check is no no it\u0027s bent on external mechanism typically ipv6 never discover you need to formulate rice you need to talk to your 6lr make sure your choice is unique to a6 and dr and now you can start working with your Meucci can never get an ipv6 address okay well you can think you do but that you can\u0027t have this our own exchange I just need to send an NSC arrow to your router and the rottens to reply to you yes you can use it if you didn\u0027t do that you should not stop triple and so so it\u0027s kind of an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:34",
    "text": "impossible case another external mechanism but you must it\u0027s written somewhere the link must be double bidirectional so you come peacefully Newton you cannot be free so perimeter I completely mutant know these doesn\u0027t think the problem is the network at all we just approximately knew it that it\u0027s this no data muted node at the beginning of the experiment exam and after 15 minutes we just silent it and it just only can only communicate with 33 which is it\u0027s produced successor so we just have a canary occupy with other and what we with the same scenario as a Death Note we just kind of traffic so we we see that we have almost no losses except from the to concern notes during 10 minutes during the local right bank but yeah and we have a little more rigid control traffic but such a detective and so the only point is that it is a real limited topology change so we can just check if we have no too many packets but we I I think you just confirm me I think that\u0027s because presentation I think only the two notes the trigger of the tuners are accelerated isn\u0027t it I think in this situation we have the freaking time of the to note that have accelerated that\u0027s why we contacted this biggest amount of yield I expect since also note that doesn\u0027t change it\u0027s a trickle timers pretty ok so not all the question in completion we have already stated them into inter presentation the question one question is a question of of link metric estimation is it directly a ripple question or more external mechanics that swittel doesn\u0027t need to worry about I think that\u0027s all was in it seemed always happy to talk but we don\u0027t have time now so I won\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:36",
    "text": "pull him in but I\u0027ll send you guys an email okay okay ThinkFree interesting people okay Pascal there are two questions really which cannot fall out of this presentation the first one is what do we do with this document but I actually a completely agree with that document there is something to be done about this we understand I want to sell it when to receptacle timer all these things and we have kind of discussed around the draft and then it kind of stale but it\u0027s something we really need to understand how to really use this correctly this is why you should sell it this is why you should not this is where the trickle timer should be reset this is one should not it\u0027s not obvious it\u0027s something but that means more the measurement it means analysis and after the analysis it probably also means that you provide specifications to ameliorate the performance so doesn\u0027t mean just yes the measurements no it\u0027s a lot of that is on paper like if you have a blackout in your meters it\u0027s 50 meters not great we black out and now the power comes back and all the matters in the city start sanding this and your Diaz won\u0027t progress they will be interfered with by all this yes very very bad idea don\u0027t do it on the other hand I\u0027m putting this new meter on my world it\u0027s the only one that\u0027s new in the network I mean and the guy is putting it and waiting for it to join the network should he stay in my home for four hours waiting for the next day Oh probably not so that\u0027s when you should press the button on the matter so that this is sound the metal joins the network the guy can leave so so there is not too serious cases what\u0027s valuable in cases right should not be done we did not determine I\u0027d like to discuss afterwards okay so just Peter somehow wanted me to give a small update and it is more than that actually yeah we have this repo beer and that was quite a lot of enthusiasm on it and I think we should like to continue and this is the moment to see if people are interested to continue and that you can actually make some decisions on how to go forward that will be lovely so this was basically the marketing side if anybody hadn\u0027t seen that last time that somebody who does not know this life okay and then we can go to the next slide so it was basically what what this exactly but so basically we\u0027ve been very active until 103 and then unfortunately died down so we had a few meetings and and and and the minutes are on the ether "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:37",
    "text": "pet but we we hadn\u0027t really come to conclusions of document wise what to do as the next steps and and and maybe that\u0027s exactly what we should get back to I think we had a very good think upon a lot of understanding of the technical details is that face meant to indicate any particular opinion about the matter at hand mr. Pascal yeah yeah as it seems to be somewhat can you nudge this to go full picture so last time we we said these were the relevant documents that we\u0027ve basically been involved in the process I think we can go back to those and figure out if that\u0027s still true and I think Pascal would know more about this than I because they\u0027re pretty much most of of most of all of them so here would be the proposal on how we can get started up right and that\u0027s pretty much I think what we identified is that there are you know IP multicast layer issues their issues on you know small new lightweight clients but then there\u0027s also the very basic functionality that we want to have ripple and in the encapsulation right and it seems to me as if Pascal\u0027s draft started to already capture that level right and maybe you know as a starting point if we can just say let\u0027s we have a better understanding of all the other things but we\u0027re not trying to bring them into this draft but let\u0027s figure out how in this draft we can merge all the necessary pieces where I think it\u0027s primarily the B the C cast pieces right you have a bunch of sections that are empty there that are just stakeholders and you know so will primarily in question to Carsten if he thinks it makes sense that we create out of drafts word Roll beer emerge document where we also have the you know non IP multicast they adjust the role layer functionality that you also have in the Seekers proposal right so that we basically then have one document that describes the the functional you know definitions right so the the specification part there was the other part right so if in the document may we should try to work out which sections are informational which are normative right so because there is some encapsulation defined but then basically we get to a point of knowing what is really the things that we want to specify and once we\u0027re complete with the specification we can figure out if all the explanations should stay there or if we for you know further explanation of into some form of architectural informational document and strip this down even further but in the first place let\u0027s maybe try to work on code complete or the normative pieces of the role "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:39",
    "text": "pieces with the with the normal bit strings and then with the heuristic bit strings but what do you think yeah cast moment there are several angles to look at this from and the one is of course who can actually implement this and one of the problems with bloom filters of course is that that there are tons of patent claims around those and what we did with the original draft I was try to sail around these obviously in no human can interpret the mess that pattern system is so I have no idea whether we were successful or not but one of the objectives was to keep the things simple enough that actually it doesn\u0027t run into problems now merging and so on of course increases the risk again but wait a second can I just interrupt it yes mmm would it be fair to say there is really nothing substantial about bloom filters acceptance proof existence in your document I mean no real technical details about them is that fair yeah right so I would hope I would hope that we can leave all the details of you know that boob filters to you sure would you then still really a risk of changing the agent we just assumed from 1970 you\u0027ve got room filters the point is that that combining moon theaters with packet forwarding is something that people apparently like working at a change sure and so the question really is if you want to use bloom filters are you possibly better that are off with something simple that doesn\u0027t cover the whole design space but only a particular part of it or do you want to be part of the larger thing that has many other ways of an expert so I have no idea just if you do have any idea decorations and not aware but you say they get tried to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:43",
    "text": "minimize exposure through your document what what\u0027s what you think was was the key tricks in in that I mean what\u0027s become was something very simple and wage for a while for the the patent people to actually screen and it didn\u0027t happen so yeah but it wasn\u0027t adopted as a working good craft right no I\u0027m not talking about the the IETF I\u0027m talking about we are this document originated instructive in this is like six years old right and of course people can might still have petted a part of it since steam published for a long time I don\u0027t care that much about that but at the time it took but again I don\u0027t have a feeling for the risky level that is energy when you I agree Pascal to be here I agree with Gaston that we need to look at IPO and in particular for the normative so maybe the question you asked her earlier was having a a document which gives you the big picture on how things work together I keep that informative even if all you describe as I care on it I think I\u0027m perfectly happy with that and then probably when we start describing or what you do if you use bluem or what you do use the explicit bits etc maybe we want to split that because there is a joke I haven\u0027t so if people wants to want to do only a fourth like our Foursquare business story if you just want to implement one of these four boxes it happens that this box doesn\u0027t have a cure if we package the four boxes in one normative specification we will be implementing the document which cleverly has a lot of regularity and so I was just wondering whether we should look at which squares we want to start with and and limit a document to one of those squares that will immediately Albert\u0027s attacks because there will be a cottage so so this is this is orthogonal to what I was thinking my thinking was that through the last year month at least my understanding is that there is a humongous amount of explanation if you want to explain the stuff to people who don\u0027t for example have all the background of ripple and don\u0027t want to read a thousand pages of ripple stuff for example right so which is something I\u0027d love to do but I\u0027m not sure if I have the time so that\u0027s when basically we were visiting what what could we do is the next step saying that you know we may not be you know code complete on good explanations anytime soon but we could maybe be much easier code complete "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:43",
    "text": "on the specification part even if that just means the specifications only understood by the people who been involved in the process right so that\u0027s why we\u0027re saying can we first focus on the specification parts and now you\u0027re saying the specification part still can come in four quadrants and maybe we don\u0027t capture all the quadrants of the specification I have no strong opinions on that because I\u0027m not sure how much actual work we\u0027re saving because in the end just just the fact that there is more IPR and cumber meant in one quadrant or the other I don\u0027t really care right now I mean you make you make air from a commercial perspective but look I don\u0027t have a commercial head on for for this stuff here right so that\u0027s oh no understood but I think that I mean unless you want to create ultimately four four quadrants for different documents right but even then some somebody who\u0027s nasty can simply claim you know IPR against all four of them and leave it up to you know your company\u0027s lawyers that you want to implement you to figure out now sorry this guy is full of you know basically his patent only applies to this one out of four documents so now I think if we overthink the IPR stuff we\u0027re not doing any anything innovative so but but fine I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s hopefully a design team right and we hopefully make this up if if we start specifying one particular quadrant and then basically either run out of steam or enough member of the team say okay let\u0027s for IPR reason others not do the other quadrant and we stop there right and call that data first win and then try to format the document accordingly I\u0027m just saying what is - because we\u0027ve been doing a lot of high-level all over the place analysis and details and how can we get focused and that was the proposal right let\u0027s let\u0027s work out the specification part this is the right moment then to go to Paris room and then for the people are left to norm to work on the subject search that you can discuss face to face almost face to face with yeah it\u0027s the correct yep then close to me thank you very much to everyone for being here we go now to Paris Rome is in love 11 it\u0027s close to the terminal Rome the Paris Rome Paris Rome Paris breathe in through okay thank you very much to everyone so let\u0027s take a break and walk a bit and then continue working on growing beer thank you toilets for didn\u0027t this please sign the blue sheets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:08",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] "
  }
]