[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "the the the interface between meat EO and data tracker was modified to make all this much faster maybe it's s it will SL up yeah it's still spinning oh you ask to share [Music] slides but I can't do that because it's spinning so let's go do that all right yeah no documents available yeah yeah it's still spinning uh okay well whatever well it's the top of the hour we have Russ on yeah I don't know what's uh what's with the interface there but maybe you need to reload data tracker definitely has them yes well maybe do you want to try just showing them from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "your computer that's when it usually locks up uh so I'm I'm not going to try that okay then not if you can show them from your computer um all right let me I am in the middle of serving myself breakfast so one sec okay let's see let me get these from the data tracker nothing is ever easy okay PDF we go okay I have the slides well let me so now I'm going to try just uploading them from here all right now try requesting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "come on was almost more work to put them up to than to make them great work let's get started welcome everybody to the last seore interim call before I TF 120 um the primary thing today is setting up the agenda for 120 and carsten has some slides to start with so carsten take it away okay thank you uh I prepared my usual document tour but uh this time focused on whether we want to look at the document at 120 so right now the the front side has four documents that are out of our hands uh time tag is back to R 48 um after a second ITF last call and uh we are find finding little editorial things but it should be done um very very soon uh update 8610 grammar is in the RFC editor C in edit State uh edn literals is waiting for ad go ahead hi Arie and uh maybe it's worth reporting that that Yang Sid which is a resource that that we will be using on the the SE side as well is also in all 48 and we just uh finished asking the 58 questions the RFC editor had and are now during the rest of O 48 so I think none of these need to be discussed uh in uh Vancouver except Ari has something to say about about Ed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "LS I uh I've received the updated draft I haven't had a chance to review the feedback yet assuming all of the comments are addressed I will push it Forward good so there there is still one comment from Rohan where we disagree on on whether the significant surgery should be done or not but all the other comments should be addressed okay so next uh wo that looks interesting what was that um interesting transition um so uh we have one document that completed working group last call and had some work done based on the feedback and um I believe the the working BL feedback is addressed um we could now do another work blast call a short call or just say it's addressed um so uh we could also discuss it at 120 I'm I'm uh essentially open to what we do next but I consider the author's work on this document done do you think the last call comments are worth discussing at 120 or do you think um that whatever remains can just be done in iatf last call I think that that that can be done in it last call so pr6 was only a clarification an important one but I don't think we change anything and pr5 was uh just uh more text about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "how dot join works this this is an interesting operator because there is no expectation that you implement it fully um so uh we got some some questions how exactly this is going to work in practice and I think the additional text should address this but this is definitely something that could be discussed comments from anybody else Marco Ricard anybody same okay I mean I guess uh or go ahead uh if if if we can discuss this depending on what the other agenda items are I would prefer to have a record of any any discussion that comes uh from this before uh last call um just making my my my life a little bit easier but uh it's I guess it depends on the rest of the agenda item so I would I would put it as a tentative agenda item to do a somewhat detailed review of what's changed here and then we can maybe skip it if there's more important work okay well the certainly the first thing on the agenda is usually document status and can put this as part of the discussion of document status so yes let's do that good next one is uh the packed uh document which is essentially stable but we wanted to gain more experience with it um so one one item of experience is Christian's document on on how to build Tables by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "reference so that that document has been out I'm not sure what the implementation status is um and the other document that is out there is the DNS cbar document this explores different approaches um of doing this some of which use packed unchanged some of which changed something um here maybe the interesting observation is that there is a paper um in a conference submission uh right now uh where the paper acceptance deadline is September so I'm I'm not sure that Martin will be very interested in in discussing the the content of this paper at this point in time so otherwise I would think that would be very good input um feedback uh for for how to use uh packed so I'm not sure that we have enough substance for a discussion at 120 but uh maybe we can put this in as another uh optional provisional agenda item yes that sounds like a plan good um then the the CDE document has had a lot of mailing list uh uh traffic uh unfortunately I ran out of time um integrating rohan's uh pretty useful editorial comment so uh there probably will be a dash off four uh by 120 and I'm pretty sure we also want to discuss uh uh what to do next I think it's ready for working call um but uh only in its Das 4 version and and after some discussion there there are also two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "related informationals one is the the deterministic encoding explainer uh which hasn't been revised in a while so maybe it should be it needs one editorial pass um so we have to decide what to do with that uh it's it's really uh informational in in the best sense so it it tells people how how all this stuff works um so we could do this as a working gr document uh I could pursue doing this as an isse document I would be happy with either and then there is another new oh that's the wrong reference there is another new document uh CBO Dash numbers not the draft d-h numbers this is something complete completely different sorry I I missed up this the slides there um so there is a new document draft b c numbers uh which addresses the entire field of numbers in in SEO which is probably the most complicated aspect of CBO not because CBO is complicated because but because numbers are complicated um so uh I I intend to pursue this um to to uh make the very rough editorial work uh that that I managed to do before submission better uh this might be a way to to let off steam from the CDE document which is spending uh quite a few pages on number issues and really it shouldn't shouldn't explain CBO numbers in general it should uh say what exactly you do with them for deterministic encoding so if we decide we want to do this uh numbers document not the one on the slide but the other one um then maybe we can make the CDE"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "document much more streamlined which I think would be good because right now it looks like CDE is complicated and it actually isn't um so I think this definitely should be discussed at 120 yep sounds like a plan good um yeah a this is weird do you see Slide Five I do I do too good the transition is really weird on on my end here yeah fine here good uh so uh we all know there is a related document that we now all agree should be in the independent stream or at least should not be a working document I'm not sure that everybody agrees it should be in inent stream and um I think we have completed uh discussion on this uh sufficiently that we uh agree this is not a runaround the working group this is a true independent document making use of the application profile uh Concept in CDE and there was one last question about tag 2011 which I think Christian answered today uh giving a they go ahead to register that um so uh yeah there's nothing we need to do here uh but I just wanted to report this this is probably now going uh the the way to the ISU and of course it should be clustered with the the uh CDE document itself because it's based on CDE okay next slide six um we had one document where we thought we were done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "um except that uh there is an interesting technical dark corner here which is importing uh specifications that add to sockets and the the import mechanism doesn't work unchanged uh for for this uh so the the uh plan is to to finally Implement one way of handling this and having a next version of the document before 120 and if we managed to pull this off uh then I wouldn't mind having a discussion at 120 even if the the input document only will be available on on Sunday before ITF yep okay that would be fine then the next one is the uh edn document which we just recently adopted uh so this this is time for reviews we already have a couple of uh documents that uh use this in particular the GM admin uh document over in Ace um so they they using it by essentially restating what's in this document as far as they need it um and uh uh so I think we we should look at the experience we have there Marco I hope I have uh repres presented this draft correctly and maybe discuss this at 120 yeah thanks Carston the draft was the Gia Pig definitely but I took advantage of the the latest submission round to use that approach wherever I could in all the documents where I had that issue good so we we we're looking forward to a short report from you what what your experience with you using this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "is well in short uh it's nice and simple I like it there may be details to to wormith but it's good I think great okay so let's discuss this at 120 um yeah and the the rest of the slides are uh just reminders on on the other documents that we have um so we have this draft numbers document which is the other numbers document I really didn't pay attention when creating these draft names so this is a completely different issue it's it's the issue that that is related to the EF uh document and it's just a way to manage SEO numbers in Internet Internet drafts um we probably want to revisit this after the experience we're having with ef um but um yeah I think we can take our time uh discussing whether and when to adopt this because it's useful for referencing already now because the reference is always of the form that it will be taken out by the RFC editor uh so it's never a problem that it would be a down ref or something because it it just uh describes the handling up to the RFC editor not the the the way it's then shown in the RFC um there are two documents that uh have sorry Qui quick comment on the last one I I do think it would be useful to discuss the this this draft um if I'm correct this is this is the one that sort of handles the case of you're working on drafts you have seore registrations they're you know in in progress you you you know it I've I've heard from a lot of implementers um some challenge in how how to manage"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "provisional requested registration assignments that kind of thing so I think some clarity or working group discussion around this would probably be helpful just a just a comment let's do that I I I totally agree if if there's uh need for discussion here let's do that it gets much simpler with the EF stuff uh so um it it's uh we don't have something similar on the cddl side but we can describe maybe how this should be handled in cddl so let's do that number nine um there is uh a couple of documents that uh upgrade the Yang Sia uh definition uh one is a way to to actually use binary information in places where the other Yang representations have text based information it's really weird to send a seore instance with a text based representation of an IPv6 address in it this is not what we need so this is what the Yang standing does and there is a Yang feature called metadata and there is a proposal how to handle that so um these documents probably need one editorial around each and then we probably want to to get uh attention from the netm uh people uh to make sure we not doing something stupid here uh but I don't think we can pull this off for 120 so unless somebody sees a big reason to discuss this I would propose not discussing them and finally number number 10 slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "number 10 uh just lists a few more documents that are more informative and uh um we probably don't need to discuss unless somebody sees sees a need for an update so that's it from my side okay so it looks like we have a few docu well we'll do en document status and uh then a few documents to specifically discuss and do we have any other things for the agenda it sounds like no it's um I guess I picked up uh probably three documents that we might might have a significant discussion of and a couple of other things that will be short discussions sry um just uh if there is time I'd like to Circle back to the conversation around the CDE draft and and any kind of remaining comments around that I've I've reviewed the uh-1 updates and it seems like all of the comments have been addressed but carsten you were saying Rowan had a comment that where there was still disagreement and i' I'd like to have a better understanding of that if there's time yes you probably mean edn and not CDE uh yes I I definitely mean edn yeah so um edn has has this interesting idea of of having plugins um which we call application oriented literates and so the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "abnf uh for for edn itself essentially has a place where these plugins can can be put in but because abnf doesn't have a plug-in architecture uh we do this by describing the the general structure of these things and then having separate pieces of abnf that describe uh the extensions and because it's the easiest thing to do uh this also covers the same mechanism is also used for hex and and Bas 64 uh literals of bite strings now um doing this in in a two-level system really helps with making things pluggable uh but of course it's less streamlined if you actually use this in in an uh implementation in in some something like a bulk uh usage um so if if you really want to to base your code on on edn as an interchange format uh you probably want to integrate all this into uh one uh piece of of abnf but of course that that is then then a little bit harder uh to plug in stuff for um I don't think we should be overly concerned with applications that that do bulk usage of edn literals usually it's tools and uh those tools uh usually don't have a problem with a twole abnf that's why I thought this is not something we need to act on um if you want to act on this then the the abnf gets significantly more complicated because it needs to integrate those two levels of abnf uh for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "usage so um thanks for that uh description I think um Rowan had at one point raised a poll request and provided like consolidated abnf and I remember reviewing that but I don't know that I've seen commentary from anyone other than yourself or Rowan on this topic so I would like to I'd like to have a better sense as to like what the other working group members are feeling around it if I could yeah Christian also has an implementation of edn and uh he said he was fine with a two-level approach um so yeah I think we we have two implementations that are fine with it and one uh where ran is pursuing the single level and by the way there's nothing wrong with doing it this way it's just that this document doesn't contain the abnf you would feel lead to your implementation so you can still have an an alternative single level abnf somewhere on a Wiki or in a software release um this is not this implementation approach is not U excluded um but uh yeah if if you actually look at the pr and at the number of lines change you can see that for expositional reasons it's it's actually much better to do it in a two level uh construct because you can separate the concerns of of escaping uh characters and and of describing the actual uh syntax of of the literal um but yeah you you have to look at the pro request and then see how many lines are added and how many lines are removed okay so I will get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "a draft agenda out to the list today um it's looks like it's going to be a simple agenda I I don't think we will use our whole hour in Vancouver if we don't come up with other items but who knows how long some discussion might wind up going um I'll note that we are the last session on Friday um which is I guess later than I would later in the day than I would like it to be for uh for the Europeans who will be participating remotely uh but uh you know somebody has to be last so I guess we get to be and we will hope that we're not last in duin anything else we need to talk about today besides the uh timing of the interim calls coming up so if anybody has had a chance to look at the new numbers draft I would love to hear some feedback even if it's editorial very rough um but I mean this was like yesterday uh so maybe nobody has had a chance yet well it will be on the agenda for discussion um in Vancouver so we will ask people to take a specific look at it now so that should be good all right um so the dates for let me get back to this the dates for the interim calls between 120 and 121 are listed in the uh in the hedg do 21 August 4 and 18 September and 2 and 16 October this is continuing the same Cadence that we have uh so it should be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "non-controversial does anyone have any issues hearing none and I posted this to the mailing list as well and I've seen nothing on that I will go ahead and make the request for these um probably during Vancouver I don't see any reason to do it earlier so we'll uh give people a little more time to say whether there's a problem with those dates but I'm sure they won't be being as they follow the same Cadence we've always had okay anything else okay I guess we're good for today carsten thanks for going through all that and um like I said I will get a draft agenda posted um well today or tomorrow I'm gonna aim for today thank you all right thanks people for showing up and uh Marco especially as always thanks for taking notes it's really helpful my pleasure thank you bye bye-bye bye e"
  }
]
