[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "hi welcome to ATF 101 welcome to i2 RS you might have noticed that I\u0027m not actually so unfortunately she\u0027s sick and Russ is still on the way from the airport so you get my shining countenance don\u0027t look so puzzle Chris hi she\u0027s yeah she\u0027s yeah she\u0027s uh she is noticeably sex so let\u0027s go through so the first thing is of course the agenda bashing in RFC\u0027s I\u0027m going to talk to you about the current status I also want to make sure that everyone knows who Martin is because he is going to be the responsible ad for i2 RS after Wednesday don\u0027t forget to smile and talk about what\u0027s going on with the drafts that are in working group last call and the transfer of work to RG gwg and then party time did you all bring hats all right well if you didn\u0027t bring hats that\u0027s okay we\u0027ll get on with it so let\u0027s see we\u0027ve gotten a number of documents published from the IRS working group most recently in anthropology and else reads apology model we had the architecture down a while ago the traceability framework publications subscription and work which we all know have turned into a good amount of work over in net cogs there was a serious drive for that you only see the impact of that happening in telemetry security requirements ephemeral state again where net mod is done the nmda which is also now in RFC so that we are able to have a ephemeral state and use gang models for basically the api\u0027s that were envisioned fra - RS we still have three documents that are in working group last call there\u0027s the rib data model the rib information model and the yang DC fabric network the rib data model and information model are familiar to you all because we\u0027ve had them in the working group for a very long time and they\u0027re really important documents coming from the working group I\u0027m extremely excited to see them go forward I did an ad review they\u0027re all good and they\u0027re in IE TF last call they\u0027re in a bit of a prolonged IETF last calls we had a large number of documents in IETF last call and so some of them had to stretch out what that does mean is Martin is going to be being the responsible ad for i2 RS and plan is to get these through documents through and then the working group is going to be closed because you know we\u0027ve gotten the work done which is awesome the there is one document which is the elta to network topology draft where I\u0027d like to see some discussion on that document if possible there\u0027s a working group last call conformation happening on the mailing list right now and it\u0027s you know the documents been dormant for a while but that was basically because it was done and waiting on the topology and l3 topology ones I haven\u0027t done a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:02",
    "text": "review of it Martin it\u0027s gonna be up to Martin to do their ad review of it and decide whether it\u0027s going to be ready to go from this working group or whether it needs to move over to Archie gwg so does I want to talk about the l2 topology one oh yeah go for Chris awesome thank you Hey so I\u0027m the yang doctor reviewer of this document it was requested to be done by ITF I did not get it done by Kristian hops by the way there are some issues that the TLDR version of my review is it defines features like I can\u0027t think of any off the top of my head that it doesn\u0027t use PBB right and I don\u0027t know if it should be defining features that it literally doesn\u0027t reference the other thing is the end caps it defines end caps like ATM that it doesn\u0027t add any attributes for and I\u0027m I don\u0027t know exactly what the right thing to do here is but I suspect it\u0027s to leave that end cap to be defined by somebody who actually is understanding the technology and wants to put the attributes in so a few things like that I think it\u0027s gonna have to wrap though that was my main comment was I don\u0027t think it\u0027s ready to go completely final so I guess it would follow with Martin or move to a different working group right so I had intended to close I tore us this meeting but because of the documents that are not through that\u0027s not happening and as I said Martin\u0027s gonna wait and close the working group when the documents are done which should be well before a next idea I yeah for the l2 topology model I want to have to see how if the responses are quick to your comments or if it needs to move to RT to WG for discussion hey Alex so does anyone else have any comments on the l2 network topology okay so let\u0027s see there one other document that was being started but hadn\u0027t progressed fully is the ephemeral data store model and the ephemeral data store model is going to go to our teacher WG to get finished we\u0027ve made a lot of progress on that in the last couple IETF cycles which is really great but it\u0027s just not quite done yet so we\u0027re gonna have that happen in our twg and the IQR s security environment requirements draft has been sitting for a while it did go through working group last call but it\u0027s one of those documents that was really useful to sort of pull things together and be clear but we don\u0027t see it as having longevity in meeting archival you know keeping so it\u0027s not gonna be published so any right before we go to celebration "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:05",
    "text": "time let\u0027s lease over for a few minutes does anyone have any comments or questions so I I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s if it\u0027s appropriate I don\u0027t know how about how far and wide spread the topology models are yet at DT I think we have a use for them specifically we\u0027ve been talking a lot about lately about the you know being identify all three links when we have like a fiber failure right so having the the way that it\u0027s organized is really well the models could do with some I mean I don\u0027t understand why like types are containers I unfortunately I think the ship sailed right because it\u0027s an RFC they are we do bise\u0027s yeah and and like the notifications in l2 are really generic like why aren\u0027t they just generic notifications that when they identify an l2 network you know it\u0027s an LT notification but I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s any room for any cleanup or rewrapping probably not since you\u0027re gonna close this group down so the there\u0027s a lot of work as you strangely enough well now in Archie gwg onyang models and so my expectation is that there is absolutely room for rework if it\u0027s needed particularly since you know deployment and you know implementation experience is really excellent so I think that it could happen in art gwg if it makes sense I\u0027d encourage you of course to talk to the authors of the RFC\u0027s and the authors for the elta to apology since the LTH apology model is not as far along I think there is the opportunity there for some rework based on your experience yeah I mean that\u0027s kind of what I was thinking right since we haven\u0027t pushed out to through yet it\u0027s maybe we\u0027ve moved the notifications to abyss of the generic but I don\u0027t know because all three also got published so now it has specific notifications okay yeah I think it\u0027s it\u0027s they\u0027re perfectly fine for what we need to use them for but yeah as I try to use them more directly maybe we\u0027ll find a few things sure that sounds great okay any other comments or thoughts considerations so I mean thank you all thank you all for your hard work thank you all for coming thank you all for getting the stuff done I know the working group has been has gone through some challenging times to get the work done and I think that we\u0027ve made the impact that was anticipated in terms of the technologies that were necessary to support I tore us and and also just in terms of changing how people think about yegg models what we can do with them and having them not just be for a configuration obviously the ability to go forward and use the same kind of models with different protocols as more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:05",
    "text": "of an API or interface is now there that we\u0027ve got the functionality the femoral data stores being fit working is going to go off to our twg but the understanding of how that works in net mod and with yang is there the notifications are there we\u0027ve made a lot of progress over the last few years and so I just really want to say thank you and now you\u0027ll be shocked to hear it\u0027s time to celebrate so I hope you all had breakfast oh please do fill out the wishes so I\u0027d ask you all to you know continue to help with as Martin has and just with comments particularly the author\u0027s for the documents that are in last call this is Martin he\u0027s going to be the routing ad of course as of Thursday and not me anymore then you know please do work with him to get those documents done because they really matter the one which is in let\u0027s call the layer two topology one really if you could take a look at it send your comments if you don\u0027t have technique commence at least support or comment on the progression of this document because it\u0027s really important especially at the stage of the working group to have a real situation on how to progress it on up yep and really that\u0027s it so you can all start milling around and talking to each other all right fine if you give an author of one of the documents one of the RFC is could you stand up and if you could share yeah I know and you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:10",
    "text": "what I think that\u0027s a good thing if you\u0027ve worked on yeah and if you\u0027ve reviewed a document and provided good feedback and thank you all very much it\u0027s really awesome and that\u0027s a wrap not very long you "
  }
]