[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "or didn't all right we're gonna have to pick on victims thank you behind the masks okay okay so we still need a note taker most immature got the news cap the point next capture also need somebody to watch the chat just in case questions come up and chat um uh from people who aren't able to join the micq for some reason also speaking of the Mike Q This is a hybrid meeting therefore the mic Q is what's up there on the screen if you are standing in front of the mic and your name's not up there you don't actually exist despite the fact that someone looks an awful lot like you is standing in the mic line so make sure you join the meeting uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "because that's where the micues Run I mean it's also saying that unless you join the meeting you haven't signed the blue sheet so you should join the meeting anyway even if you have no intention of saying anything foreign so please join the app use the QR code do the blue sheets please volunteer somebody to be a note taker or else we'll have an even less time than we currently have which we are planning to use to the full thank you for your assistance we will we will try and make them good so don't worry about the details we will help but very much appreciated so note taker okay please record your name in the notes as a note taker okay this is t t s v w g as far as I know the only working group with WG in the acronym uh and we're here to look at the transport area topics uh I'm gory first I'm one of the working group chairs this is I'm David black and I'm Martin ziman okay so welcome Martin uh good one we'll um yep let's go through the note well not well is the standard ietf note well if you haven't read it on day one then you should uh this covers the rules for IPR disclosure among other things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "next slide we do need help in tsbw dupe we will be pursuing people to help them help with note taking and we have a note taken for this session thank you very much if you if you're intending to produce a document in tsvwg then please add the acronym tsvwg to your draft and if you'd like that to proceed then please offer to review drafts we need reviewers for working group drafts okay and I need a volunteer to watch the chat and bring to the room's attention to anything and chat from somebody who's unable to join the mic line for some reason so looking for a volunteer who's going to be in the chat anyhow anybody okay Richard can you pay attention to the chat for us we'll just k on it okay a quick reminder uh please join the meeting of the blue sheets also the mic line is running entirely in meat Echo you have to join the my line and meet Echo standing in front of the mic does not put you in the mic line we run the mic line uh automate Echo it's shown on the smaller screen in the center of the room all right um as gory's noted uh Dr quality relies on reviews if you like documents you care viewed please in the effort to review other documents some upcoming documents that could use some careful review are multi-path uh dccp and the UDP options drafts all right time for a review of our greatest hits nrc's published since ietf 114 but there are three drafts at the art all three l4s drafts are at the RFC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "editor they are being actively worked on they will appear in the very near future I think we're closing in on uh what's needed to get them published no drafts at iesu after IHF last call we have two drafts with regular chairs and authors after work last call this is yours truly uh as as the responsible or irresponsible group chair uh the issue encapsulation for the lower layer protocols and ECM for tunnels that use shim headers uh we're working through the revised reframing interaction text for that first draft using captivation for lower layer protocols with luck that will con that will close fairly soon and the Arts publication request will be coming one draft just completed a second working group last call is signing a new recommended dscp that will be discussed in this meeting we have a draft in working with last call uh the nqb phb uh Greg is going to discuss uh where we are on that one um here are the remaining six drafts the first five drafts are on the agenda the sixth one use reports for experiments is a fairly small mostly processed draft uh the draft itself is complete it's going to be working group last called fairly shortly after this meeting and uh we'll do them there if you've been paying very close attention what we do you'll notice sctp Nat is missing from a list above uh we decided the right thing to do was remove it from our plan of work because we could not get uh convergence and agreement on what that what that draft ought to do okay bunch of related drafts these are all on the meeting agenda we have uh three uh sctp drafts a couple of updates uh and a proposal of zero checksum we have a general uh internet condition control guidance draft uh Martin Duke has found a case that we appear to have missed in uh ecn interaction with tunnels so there's an indoor draft on that and careful resumption of congestion control are you going to talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "about those are going to talk about that Glory I think Nicholas will try and join us remotely if not I'll cover it okay sounds good um wait to see here um here okay uh some related IDs that are not on the agenda please uh post list or talk to the authors if they're interested uh Jason livinggood has a Comcast uh uh draft on uh deployment design uh hpcc plus plus well this is sort of on the agenda sort of not there's a there's one slide coming up if uh we get through the agenda quickly they'll be timed out the end to go into it much more detail but we'll have to see we're trying to run what would normally be a three hour meeting in two hours and so uh things are tight and John has a draft on media headache extension for wireless networks which has been uh discussed some on the list and if you're on that list of people then please be ready to come to the mic when we show yours one slide you have two minutes to present your topic as and encourage people to read those drafts uh just two minutes in total and that will happen after slide 17 you're on slide 10 so we're getting there okay Milestone reviews we have two record Milestones it says still about to be achieved because I thought these were almost done in Philadelphia I still think they're almost done we're closer now uh we're well into the second we're well into the last 10 that takes the other ninety percent of the time um uh additional uh 2022 uh working group uh Milestones uh we're going to move uh the UDP options drafts to March uh 2023 as the new date for them um nqb well we're not too far off it's in working group last call so we'll leave the milestone in September uh moving forward we have uh considerations for a shining new recommended uh dscp coming uh which has been working with last called uh and then if we go into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "next year um use reports for experiment needs a new Milestone that looks like January and then the March uh details sctp and July milestones for the dccp extensions and lfers operational guidance uh remain intact uh Magnus you were in and out of the Mike queue I hope we covered whatever it was you were concerned about okay uh agenda so we start with these slides including Milestones view which you've just seen uh chairs update so I've we've reviewed the Asian encapsulation draft status we've reviewed the uh status shelf first drafts at the RFC editor expect to actually be rfcs very soon it's been a long strange trip but we got there uh and the status active working group drafts we then have a couple of group drafts on uh uh on uh diff serving an aqm um DHCP assignment considerations which it has gone through our group last call we have some comments resolve the lfs operational guidance which Greg White's going to talk about a little bit uh that one's going to stick around for a while moving on transport drafts uh two sessions on multi-path dccp there's been some interop testing and I hear the results a bit have been pretty good uh and then Marcus will talk about the base multi-path DCC D CCP draft John Matson has taken over SCP authentication and found let's see I think we could politely call it some opportunities for improvement uh Michael tookson is going to talk about what to do about those opportunities Magnus has our latest details of sctp draft and then we have the two uh UDP options drafts uh I think gory you're going to try to impersonate Joe touch good luck thank you uh and then the deal uh the DPL pmtud no don't don't actually pronounce that uh uh uh supporting UDP options uh gory is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "that yours at Tom Jones um they're both going to be dealt with the same way all right okay uh individual drafts um sctp UDP uh update um proposed by ctps or checksum um Nicholas is going to talk about uh Carefree junk careful resumption congestion control gory is going to talk about a general draft on guidelines and recognition control and as I mentioned earlier uh Martin Duke has found a case that we a case of EC internal interaction that appears not to be addressed as an angel draft to address it then down at the end of the meeting at the end of item five is normally two hours of gender time if we get through this more quickly we'll have time down at the end to do uh hpcc plus plus Michael has uh at least one other sctp draft John has a metadata draft uh on meditative media packets and finally ingomar has a 5G radio scheduling l4s no draft he's also going to talk about that in iccrg so it's not essential that we get to it but it's certainly usually have a heads up here okay we need to get through some cherish topics administ trivia time uh liaison Communications so I'll start the third liaison came a while ago uh it's been dealt with um and nothing has been heard from wa since we sent the reply back in essence what had happened is a an interest individual draft to come here saying hey let's go to find phbs and dscps for every 5qi we can think of uh to which our response was uh that's a lot of dhcps not sure we're going to be using that many and oh by the way 3gpp really does not like what you're doing uh a liaison came from WBA said hey would you please do this once a response went back was uh that consumed a whole lot of dscps how about something fewer and would you please get along with 3gpp and get back to us nothing has been heard from wwba since I think we can retire this uh this liaison"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "so we have a liaison with 3gpp relating to a CTP and dtls and this will come up in the liaison discussion uh tomorrow where we do the coordination and it may be updated if we need to after this meeting we will see how all this goes and gsma liaison has your name against the world as well yeah gsma are aware of the multi-path dccp work and this touches with a 3gpp and gsma work on uh on the multi-path dccp work really and keep going next one's yours too all right um this is uh iepg presentation on dscp measurement is where Anna presented her data if you didn't see it you missed it put it still in the archive so you can go and look at it or speak to Anna at this meeting um yeah we have an eye on a registry for phb IDs what do you believe it yeah well it's really interesting um Ayanna was going around checking whether they had uh active uh uh designated experts reach registry and ran across this one yours truly want Disney experts Brian Carpenter is the other we looked at the registry it's over a decade old it's still empty that's a real strong suggestion that whatever it was trying to use the registry isn't particularly useful um so the path forward is I'm going to write a draft that obsoletes the stuff that uses the registry which is I under registered uh per hop Behavior dinner I own a relationship identification codes for perhap behaviors that aren't standards track and don't have and therefore don't have a default recommended dscp the only thing we're going to do is obsolete those things that we never use because nobody ever registered one um get uh update our 340 get rid of that leave the existing format which is essentially an encapsulated dscp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um and uh close-handed registry so no effect in use of DSC fees are signaling no effect on PHP IDs and embedded dscp nobody's used this thing we're going to get rid of it Martin um I propose nothing uh the um secret isg back handle says the zoo lip is back up so if we can monitor the zulip the chat is back up so if we could please monitor the chat Channel thank you and there will be a phbid registry internet draft appearing is that right at some point soon don't hold your breath because somewhere between the change in XML format for rfcs my external based tool chain collapse I'm not going to have to rebuild and mark down tool chain that comes first 14 is a small draft it's a good test case okay at which point we will look more closely at that register and decide what to do yeah okay and next slide welcome Martin welcome Martin Martin would you like to say something on behalf of Martin well I was going to say this is Martin I mean we said the name Martin several times he's our new working group chair he's acclimatizing to being up here in front of everybody and um it's really good to have him here thank you I will be continuing as a working group chair for the foreseeable future and David black I will be stepping down his working group chair after a uh long uh and uh interest interesting experience up here I'm going to continue to separate drafts not quite true the exact timing of this but it will happen some sometime the next few months Mr Duke sir yeah I would just take a moment I would like to take a moment to recognize David um he has been the tsvw chair since before I started coming to iitf meetings I've never known a tsvwg that he was not sharing and and like obviously being a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "very present and active leader of an expert on just a wide swath of the kindness oh first of all tscw said you know a very robust group with like a wide swath of technology that it covers and David has done covered it quite adeptly and been really an expert on a whole lot of stuff um and uh I mean hopefully you're not gonna you're gonna be around to to continue to um provide your expertise for the group just maybe from from the floor where you can you know take the gloves off which should be quite entertaining and aside from the technical you know obviously this is this group has had um its share of strife to be quite Frank about it and um that's always um a uh a demanding thing for our chair to handle and he has been um instrumental in doing that so thank you for everything you've done for the transport area and the ITF and um like I said I hope we hope to we hope to continue to see you around thank you very much thank you very much I intend to stick around perhaps more virtually and physically but uh I'm not going anytime soon and as Martin has reminds me occasionally I still have some drafts and responsible for Shepard plus when I just volunteered to write okay so the next slides will be the individual documents which are just brought up here for a heads up this is a new experiment you get two minutes to pitch up on your draft if you want to so come up now if you wish to give it a talk um for two minutes on your draft if not then we will we will introduce it for you so who's first Jason Jason while Jess is coming to the mic I'll clarify that Wes Eddie will remain a Shepherd for the l4s Ops work uh wise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "has kindly agreed just to continue with this so very grateful for that right Albert Jason for his magic two minutes right no pressure two minutes my goodness well this one's pretty simple um so in the process of getting ready for deployment of all Forest types of Technologies I've been talking to a number of folks not just um folks on you know sort of business positions but policy makers um you know researchers those kind of folks that really influence the technical environment in which isps operate day to day um and the key questions that they often ask which this uh draft attempts to address are what this means in relation to prioritization sort of Fast Lanes and slow Lanes in the American Regulatory parlance and capacity or speed um because those are very very common points of confusion and then of course how does this relate to the concept of net neutrality and a fair treatment of all applications without regard to the protocol being used or or something along those lines and so those are the key two things that it speaks to and then as a result it suggests sort of four key things there might be a few more bits and Bobs in there but um really suggests this orientation towards applications marking the traffic rather than the network and I put that one in particular because as soon as we started talking about this we had sort of DPI style vendors coming out of the woodwork telling us that because apps won't be marking anytime soon we should put this magic you know inspection thing in the network and it will magically infer what applications which by the way are encrypted you know need what type of um you know queuing and that's a nightmare and always results in improper treatment and potentially starvation or other negative effects and we've done that before with TCP resets uh oops so um you know I put that in there application or Edge providers being able to use it um really on a sort of open base us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "multiple you know sort of Edge Equipment types should be supported okay you need to wrap up quickly so that's that I'm happy to take any changes and uh there's a GitHub repository thank you Jeff are you doing hpcc hi everyone so hpcc uh what is it it's I novel congestion control mechanism leveraging in bent Telemetry so each node in the possible population data and Center based on the data can either adjust the sending rate or change entropy why should you care if you are building IP address infrastructure for either storage or machine learning especially if you combine learning and inference the same network you'll figure out Hardware the tcmp doesn't work due to collisions or you'll have to keep your network 30 loading uh you need to build lossless networks because this is how we do machine learning in general you would need to spend a lot of time and effort to build Network and if you try to build it lossless fashion without better congestion control the cost just run out of control so practically what we are doing here we are gathering all the data as we travel the network send it back to the sender sender adjust the rate and allows you to adjust the rate Within rtt so if you would deploy something that today you would probably run gcqcn which works pretty well for long flows and you know large environments however as you try to put it into machine learning clusters it stops working uh we spent a year working on different encodics you know there's a zoo of indent limiting population unfortunately in ibpm so we got to support all of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "recordings and metadata most importantly we got all four data center silicon vendors to support it so you see Sisk broadcom melanox sorry Nvidia and Intel supporting it's coming in Silicon that's going to be shipping starting now so please do read the drafts uh we expect a lot of people to be interested in this technology it's much better than what we have today most importantly there are implementations in deployment Alibaba runs this hpcc yeah and Alibaba deployed hpcc with TCP just three months ago so uh there is a larger deck published and hopefully we'll get them next ITF to present yeah thank you John go ahead yeah the the uh the larger deck is um is in the meeting materials and we may get to it if we get get to it if we have coming into session John go ahead so this is a draft that identifies some media header extensions in terms of metadata that is uh specific to wireless networks I think for now uh because the media I mean the the motivation is that media applications demand low latency and high bandwidth and handling this kind of wireless link capacity variation along with network utilization and the demands of media applications is quite challenging in the wireless networks along with that we have HTTP 3 or quick based media that's going to be encrypting packets so multi-streaming needs to be considered in 3gpp the xrm working group has cons I mean sorry study has considered some solutions but we think that the ietf is a good place to look at these options and avoid I mean it have a common solution to the problems that exist for all kinds of Wireless I mean Wi-Fi and 3gp Networks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "and we've identified a minimum set of things which we think should be secured and sent only between trusted parties uh but at this point we're thinking of the priority or importance of packets for example an iframe should not even if it's past a budget it should be sent because otherwise it causes further damage a scheduler in the radio network can get use of packet bursts so that's going to be a useful amount of information and then delay budgets and last the third part is that you know how do we transport it and there are multiple options at this point possibly and each have different trade-offs so there's media over quick with just HTTP 3 UDP options which is more General but we've got to consider the API mask and encapsulation which is more flexible but then we're going to consider the overhead and uh so you know that's that's where we are at this point um if you would read the draft and give comments and suggestions that would be very very nice almost exactly two minutes well done yeah for those three drops please look at them please discuss on the list um likely at the next meeting every question we will ask people to see if they've read them or what they think of them oh it's me I can actually be me um I'm one of the co-authors of the considerations for assigning a new recommended dscp this has been through a working group last call so I'll try and be relatively quick on this there were changes in zero three and zero four we added various clarifications um we had a request to mention 3086 so we did um we noted um more explicitly that there are different ways in which packets can be remarked from the original marking that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "they were sent with and we just tried to highlight that a little bit more clearly so that um nobody got confused about implying what it meant to see a remark packet we changed the word pathology which seems to be a relatively common measurement term but has other connotations used outside of the measurement community so we can change it to Observatory marking behavior and we made various editorial Updates this was the version last called um we had some issues in working group last call we had a number of different topics raised and we put those in the issue trackers the first set here are all things that we think required better text it's amazing how many times you can improve your text we found yet more places where the text could be better maybe as other people reviewed this higher levels I was hoping that it passes out of this working group we'll find yet more corrections but we think all these are solved in our editor's copy and we plan to push this after this meeting as soon as the meeting closes we'll push the new version with a also an introduction to all the behaviors in section 6. David yes well um we didn't include one of the requests made in the working group must call yet in our editor's version and it was to discuss an issue that happens when you have a remarking behavior that comes from a TOS precedence bleach and where basically the first three bits of the dscp are reset and rudiger gave us this example as part of his uh offering on comment and we didn't include this text but we could still do it if people think it's really important it described example a and example B example B being something that is kind of like diff surf compliant because it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "uses six bits to classify a set of rules into another set of six bit rules each individual dscp is remarked to a new dscp if you were to use some bleaching mechanisms you would simply zero some part of it as in example a that anyone who knows anything about any way in which coding happens you'd realize these actually have the same result so there are multiple ways to represent the same thing and this is part of the whole confusion about what it means to bleach something I think the real issue that we were trying to convey in the draft was the intent behind the remarking not the remarking itself so if that confused you you can look at the slide puzzle on it and password past comments um if anyone would like to ask a question about this and feels really passionate that something should arise from this um then please let us know otherwise we'll go with the text written here which I think also includes David's comment on a similar subject which is a very long explanation to say um please read the draft and list text if you care David let's slide number three was um somebody helpfully asked us about their owner PHP ID and um it was going to be a nice slide but David already stole my thunder and we're not going to say anything about this on the last slide there you go I think we're done anybody any questions or any other issues that they'd like to raise good then I can go and put my mask on again Greg operational guidance all right thank you um actually before I get into operational guidance I will say one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "thing about the nqb draft since you mentioned I would talk about it um I don't have a slot on the agenda for it so um it isn't working group last call there already have been a few uh comments have come in on the mailing list but please do review the draft uh and contribute to that discussion I believe it has two more weeks until um the work group last call ends so again please review and provide comments thank you all right hang on all right just a minute need to go get your slides back um there we go all right um the l4s Ops draft you can go on to the next slide if you've not been aware of this document before it talks about deployment of l4s on the internet as it is today which potentially could include some RFC 3168 or classic ecn aqm bottlenecks and if those do exist on the internet and classic traffic shares that bottleneck with l4s traffic there can be a rate imbalance where l4s traffic gets more throughput than classic does anyway the draft talks about how to manage that situation guidance for and hosts and network operators and researchers as the l4s graphs have gone through the working class caller now in the editor's queue we as a working group agreed to keep this document open as a living document as the experiments and deployment of l4s begins to capture any learnings that that that come along with that initial deployment so I just posted a new version of the document today um and uh just to keep it alive and again if anyone has any contributions for that document please bring them up on the mailing list and uh and we'll get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "them added so I'm quite sure you and Jason know each other yeah yeah we do all right another topic I want to mention which wasn't explicitly on the agenda but since I'm up here I asked to mention it a little bit on the next slide some interoperability events that have been going on around l4s we had our first ietf l4s interop at ietf 114 in Philadelphia I was pretty well attended and got a lot of work done around multiple implementations of l4s congestion control and network bottlenecks and congestion feedback bugs were found bugs were fixed different test cases will run and uh after Philadelphia cable Labs hosted another interop event at our facility near Denver again nicely attended and uh and and those include results from that and then currently downstairs in the other Tower the main the building we are running our second ietf l4s interop the link on the slide there is the presentation that we did at the conclusion of hackathon yesterday afternoon but the testing still continues some of it will will run probably all week we've got two 5G networks that are implementing l4s as well as Wi-Fi gear and a fixed Network emulator and then a number of different endpoint implementations congestion control implementations that are running across those networks so that's going on currently and after this meeting down in the the room where the hackathon was taking place there is a happy hour please stop by you can see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "the demos of the real-time streaming media applications that are running over l4s bottlenecks some nice uh nice graphical demos for that so please stop by with that and then upcoming opportunity communities cable apps is planning on hosting another interop at our facility in January end of January the next ITF in Yokohama is a possibility to host a third ietf interop for l4s that will depend on interest and availability and so if you're interested in participating in that please let me know and I think that's it so our our milestone for this is completion in July 2023 does that sound reasonable still I I wouldn't change it today um but as we get closer to that date that might be a good question to ask whether we're far enough along in the deployment to have further guidance to add but we can always revise if it's better Bob are you I just wanted to um clarify when Greg said it's in where the hackathon was um it's Admiral sweet which is the low gram third floor right at the bottom of the East Tower yeah thank you and Bob will forgive you if you're not joining my queue this time any other questions or comments thank you for your talk next topic will be the working Group Transport drafts with MP dccp okay um no sorry yes please go ahead oh I am majoring and I'm from xiaomi located in Beijing here is our brief introduction of the mptccp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "interoperability test SBT next uh here is what we did we have ported the mptcp to Android 13 based on Android T version phones with 5.10 Kona world right running and we verified the policy and the interoperability of mptcp OC Land one environment here here is what we have done uh we read the specification reported the mptcp internal module and also the udccp commanders and also we sold many problems and finally we approved performed as a high Prof interability test next uh before the test we made some Gravitation we actually follow the reference implementation and we prepared uh one mobile phone with dual WLAN capability and we modify the kernel with 5.101 version and thanks to dtz provided the server side implementation why is there for virtual machine and another is one remote server located in Germany uh then we set up the layer and the one test environment of all the IQ addresses are listed here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "uh especially especially for the one environment we you we are using the udccp header convention application to to avoid the problems with middle boxes between uh China and Germany internet transfer or the next one uh here are the functions verified in the uh in our inability test uh we configure the all necessary options uh first one we we import the mptcp capability capability on every physical interfaces and also we enable the transfer options we also configure the routine rules and we set the translation port finally we we perform the right test the right side is the functions here and the next page uh in the first step we verified the first subflow handshake process and along with the MP capable and the MP key functions uh you can see from the TCP dump and the Y shark uh files here the next one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "the next one is the second subflow handshake and also the MP joint and MPH Mac capabilities here the next uh the next day this is a this is for the sequence and the rtt measurement the next uh this is for the MP close function verified the next one please uh this is for the priority the address add function and also the confirm function the next one this is a uh address remove remove function and the fallback machine uh functions so next one here I will plan to push the mptcp further uh right now we have test the basic function and the next step we will put the tomb prox to Android kernel under deploy the encapsulation framework to allow the multi-pass transfer transport of any IP traffic uh finally we will test the real-time service such as Skype uip sources so the next one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "uh here I will conclusion for the mptcp interoperability test uh the functions of mpdcp works well from our opinion and we actually use different combinations of mptcp in 4.14 and 5 on 10 Linux reference in meditation and the reporting on the Android searching also we we run the test in both slide and one environment which proves the complaintenance and maturity of anti-dccp draft 206 and uh its usage and the function operations are very similar to the mptcp protocol okay that's all any questions foreign code is always very very good to see for a new protocol so thank you very much look looks like a solid piece of work okay thank you so on to Marcus I think there we go hi everyone Marcus from Dr Telecom giving some overview on the multiples dccp progress next slide please yeah starting with the draft maturity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "State how we as authors see it so it's all already outlined in Philadelphia the freeze feature state birds version four so no further updates from our site we're added to the draft and we mainly focused on getting external reviewers to providing us feedback that accumulated in the current version 6 of the draft I will get more into detail on the next slide remaining minor work we see at the moment so there's some feedback from uh see monophel in writer um and also some Ayana review um here we still have to dig into and to close all the existing issues in our GitHub repository next slide please yeah you see a number of changes since last iitf uh where we presented version five now we are at six as I outlined I will not go in in all the details here but just to give you a brief overview on the on the number of issues we solved together with the reviewers have in mind all the issues we solved when accordance with the with reviewers so they gave out the okay uh that we solved the issue in the draft we had some editorial issues we solved and all the other things I really helped to um yeah all the other issues are mentioned here helps to give some clarity to the whole to the whole draft and make it better readable to externals not just to the authors a full change log is available did you see it on the bottom right so we maintained this with GitHub which gives you a nice overview yeah oh that doesn't look complete this light some check marks are missing but maybe I can outline it without having"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "all the symbols presented here um so last time in Philadelphia we mentioned that all the functionalities and multipass options we Define in the draft in the in the left table were completed and this time we focused on completing all the things in the right table so we can State implementation is completed now we fixed the last things and improved them mainly about multi-pass confirm functionality which gives a reliability to some of the multi-pass options like the editors remove address and the prior we verify the fallback mechanisms also together with xiaomi as you have seen in the previous a presentation and we implemented the two different closing procedures based on multi-path close and multi-pass Fast close you also find here um right to the table uh the pull requests in which we added those functionalities to the public GitHub repository of our Linux reference implementation um yeah and with that we started the interoperability test as Tommy has outlined next slide please Okay so ending with a summary here um yeah we did together with some me some or not some we did the interoperability test which confirmed that multi-pass dccp as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "it is specified so far works and um all the different functionalities we have specified um worked with between two different entities uh a server hosted by Deutsche Telecom in in Germany and the UE a smartphone implementation running in China they ported the multi-pass dccp to Android 13. um based on a 5.10 kernel and they solved multiple issues compared to the Linux reference implementation they verified that the code matched the mpdccp specification and yeah last but not least as I already said so we run the successful successful interoperability test um there's also or what supported us in that was also a new Wireshark detector um thanks to a PhD student from City University London who made this public available and we improved this dissector also during the hackathon on Saturday so saying here the wire Factory sector is available which is in line with the mpdcp trust version 6. yeah now coming to the interesting questions or discussions probably um you have maybe have also already seen on the mailing list also thanks to Gary um that we approach to working group last call and there's also a discussion to move um the mpdczp draft from experimental track to proposed standard so I'm supported that let me go try to show the slide Mark is meant to show I'm gonna require a little bit of uh Meade Echo magic okay um so there there are no further remarks from my side um I think it would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "be no good to get some some feedback on this working group last call and propose standard track question okay hang on a minute okay right yeah probably maybe also there I just cannot get that slide up on the screen sorry so I think the first question I've got to the group is not this question but first of all uh could I have a show of hands for people who have read this or a maybe the previous version so I want to know how many people have been reading this work as it's been developed and are we going to use a tool to do this David oh yeah you're showing the ticks okay there's there's a few ticks here um that's what you wanted to show isn't it right okay uh I'm going I'm going to try using the tool and then maybe as a calibration device I'm going to try using the room and people's real hands and see if they cut if the results calibrate so can I use this tool here we go and of course the next question will be um do you have input to help us work with our ad to decide upon the appropriate um position in the RFC series to publish this so I'm going to ask people to come to the mic to comment on that we've seen some comments on the list and I will be the next question do you want to try the test in the real"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "room or does that is that a sufficient test David we have 13 people who've read this I think 13 I think over address people who've read this read this is excellent so uh let's go ahead to the next one okay so the next question is does anybody want to provide any additional comments on whether they think this document should progress to a working group last call as PS rather than the current status which is experimental so does anybody have any comments that might help us make this judgment for instance why wouldn't it be a PS PS here means standards track does anyone think it should be EXP okay um this is actually not the working group's call but it's the ad working with the chairs to decide but we need input and Martin's the man who's going to have to yeah ask questions I definitely would like to add the input um or rather have some input and I wanted to wait for somebody but nobody stood up so I'll talk some more um uh so I think Marcus was okay so number one um I'm always concerned about real world deployment for this Beyond like proofs of concept and so on uh I think there's an excellent point that we also have an MP quick thing going on and it makes sense for that to align and I don't think my co-ad oh my co-80 is here I couldn't see him a second ago he and I need to get together on this um my original thinking when we started all this multi-path work was that a lot of the scheduling problems were very researchy problems and that what we were doing here was creating lots of platforms for the research community to be able to run those experiments in a way they can't necessarily do with mptcp very well um I don't know that if in your particular"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "use case Marcus you think you have the the scheduling problem solved or not but so you talk about multiple scheduling um yeah right yeah okay so um multiple scheduling I think it's it's for all of the protocols which are currently discussed in IDF mptcp MPD CCP and multi-pass quick that is very implementation specific and uh we just provide the protocol with that from our experience we more or less adopted the scheduler already existing for the multicast TCP implementation that was quite simple because the multiple dccp protocol as such provide the same information to the schedulers at the multi-pass TCP does and I assume uh that it's also similar to multipass quick so um yeah at the end we had not to solve something so we just adopted what what is what already exists yeah I think that's a reasonable approach and and like I I do think this work is certainly ready to progress as a document um or certainly go to working with last call it seems like we have solid implementations and whatnot so like I don't want to cast any shade on that at all but I am I think when we put out a document as proposed standard that uh it kind of communicates to non-experts that this is kind of safe to use um in a way that I don't know that the multi-path community is I think there are a lot of people who unfortunately are not in this room to speak for themselves in in the kind of the research Community say this is the own research problem like multi-pass stuff in general um oh good there are lots of people now so I'll sit down and be quiet hang on a minute you're not an accused you don't exist Lars you're next foreign that was very harsh he does exist so I've seen him standing in front of me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "um large accurate so I haven't followed the multi-path research space a while ago so I might not be up to date on this and then somebody please correct me so I think the the scheduling problem is still sort of hard um and I don't have I haven't seen any claims that somebody has a general solution I know we have solutions that work for certain kinds of path combinations like you know Wi-Fi and through G and so on um but it's you know it's an it's an efficiency problem in the sense that if you have a scheduler that isn't working very well you don't get the throughput or the latency you you might get with a better one but it's not a safety concern it it might generate a bit more traffic because there might be some retransmissions happening while the scheduler is doing like stupid stuff but it's not like driving us to congestion collapse right so from a safety perspective I think uh this should be fine to go as proposed but we still actually do need some scheduler for more General multi-pass scenarios which is the research question thanks Lars I think we would have serious concerns if the group said that there were congestion control issues or stability issues with this um but that was a really useful input would you like to come to the mic um sorry sorry to make an advantage sorry to make the examples yeah I just saw a general question I have not read this draft honestly but I in now if you remember the mobile IP work we did quite a bit of work on multiple care of addresses multiple tunnels and all of that there the underlying tunnel is a GRE tunnel which can GRS or IP but gr is now extended over gr UDP so the question is two questions I think what are the key technical differences is that in the scheduling the way we use both the links that's question number one question number two as you know in Mobile AP we failed you know I think you know 3gb system we had references but we didn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "have any deployments right overall we spend a lot of time if you look at the mobile AP community but we didn't find any traction so what's the where is it heading how do you see who is going to deploy this I think the previous reviewer commenter had the same question are the same comment so the the acoustic is quite bad here so I'm not sure if I've really got here two two questions but maybe I try to rephrase it though the first question was about how the encapsulation works yeah I think I'm trying to compare it with the mobile AP system where where we support multipath essentially you know you can a mobile node can establish two tunnels from two different access Technologies right now I have the option to do flow level distribution or a packet level distribution so I hope I get your question right but first of all it's required that multiplies dccp is implemented in both endpoints and then the exit and then we take the multiple axis which are available to to run the multiples dctp protocol across it um the relevance of a mobile system or 5G system I don't understand to be honest okay so you may want to look at some of the work that happened in the mobile AP working groups Mobility yeah um so we think with the multipass gcp we support the mobility aspect so we don't see any issue with that but we don't follow this okay maybe I'll take it off let's take it off yeah because so I just wanted to respond to Lars but I was sure to get in the queue um so I I I I do feel pretty comfortable this is not going to lead to the collapse of the internet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "um under any circumstances but we also don't have a standards track approach to multi-path congestion control to address shared bottlenecks and the like so I do have some concerns about fairness issues um which should not necessarily block everything but um there's that and then people will generally adopt this to improve their performance because I think intuitively it makes sense uh you know multiple house will improve performance and if the if like the fine print is that if you really don't know what you're doing um with the scheduling like you may not get better performance or get much worse performance that strikes abusing may be not something to stamp with proposed state and it applies to all multipasses not a specific critique of mpdccp um uh like maybe that's not something to stand put standards track at this point like use with care use the feeling if you know what you're doing if you're networking professional that's to me that's experimental RSC but I mean you obviously know a lot about RC states too so like I'm we can talk about this and we're going to talk offline tonight anyway so we can go but I just wanted to respond for the good of the uh community yeah that's actually a good point right so so because we actually did never publish a couple of congestion control so so this is the old original um you know um what's the guy's name from Cambridge now Frank Kelly did the math and and custom and Mark Hamley did the implementation right which is sort of this the couple contesting control stuff that came with part of the original Damon right sorry costing him later um the couple connection control has sort of this property that is probably uh safe in the sense that you don't inject more traffic into the network than a single flow would and that might be actually something that we could pick up um as a baseline congestion controller because it's mathematically proven that it's you know pretty good and then you could normatively depend on it and if people wanted to do different things then they could but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "yeah good point right um we would have a before standard um without a congestion controller which we can recommend which feels sort of dissatisfying so I don't want to derail the discussion but I think it's sort of we should probably figure out if this is if we feel comfortable doing that um what are you using for congestion control at the moment the story what are you using for congestion control at the moment um we use a PBR implementation are you coupling the bbrs or are they independent okay so you are injecting two or multiple but but we see no issues with adopting the uh couple congestion code control which was specified for multiple TCP for example so that this could happen right so that would be sort of I think the way but that was was that experimental informational I can't remember it was not standards track and you know what you do in your implementation is obviously separate from what you would recommend in a specification um and if we could point to the coupled in the specification that would be a solution at least we have a remark in our draft that we mentioned that couple combustion control is available and and can be used but my question is do we really need the work to adopt to our prototype coupled congestion control or can we take the evidence from the multi-pass TCP that it works so for your code right we're not standardizing the code we're standardizing works exactly and so the words would need to explain how you do it because you know otherwise everybody needs to figure this out by themselves and that sort of also ends with dissatisfying do you have words about bbr at the moment in the document or I struggle now a little bit because I know that there are rfcs for for the couple congression control for Lira at least I think um and that we mentioned in the in our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "craft that this can be used but do you say how to use it anyway maybe we're going too deep at nearest and yeah so um yes so thank you for this I mean I think this is what we can investigate offline I just want to bring the big issues out um and and ask for Community you know reaction to them if I'm completely crazy about these concerns thanks yeah this is this discussion is really helpful Meera is still in line if you wish to say something and I think the coupled congestion control for multi-path transports was published as exp in 6356. right and it's basically just um explaining how to cut the congestion control without kind of like you could apply different congestion controls to it and I think it only applies Reno but anyway um that's not what my comment was um I'm I'm usually like we have the discussion very often that the transport area has been very conservative about going for experimental force and like I'm actually been arguing many times that we should more often go for proposed standard but I'm actually a little bit uneasy about this one because it's a quite big change like multi multi-pass TCP was experimental at the beginning as well and then we got a lot of implementation experience and the one advantage we have here is that you can actually borrow from that experience and you've taken over many mechanisms directly from multipass um TCP but you still had to add a lot of extra stuff to dccp anything about protection reordering and so on so there's there's a lot of stuff that I think is is an addition so this is for me not a small change and so for such a change I would like I would like to have like a slightly higher barrier and it's great that you now have like a second implementation there but porting a Linux implementation to Android is kind of I'm not sure if that actually comes as an independent implementation like I would I would be much happier if somebody would actually from the draft not from your code but from the draft be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "able to produce an independent implementation for example okay the last point I understood uh yeah I'll clarify that last Point mirror is actually a requirement for progression on the standards track rather than to propose standard but it's a way of judging maturity for sure and I think what we're asking here is what's the maturity of this spec are the risks um if you want to think wider are the same risks in mptcp are the same risks in mp quick please talk to either the chairs or the ad but please do it quickly rapidly because we will have to make some sort of determination and I don't think we can say more at this time and we won't we won't make a decision until we're ready however we can ask about working group last call and I'd just like to ask how many people in the room would be happy to review this document if it were submitted to a working group last call um maybe I could try the tool again if you like there you go would you be happy to review the next version and say no if you don't think this is anywhere near ready or say yes if you'd be happy to review it and then you can just make your own comments well we we see people if you're review offering to review we saw 14 people say they'd read this or a recent version we've heard some discussion at the mic you already have a lot of feedback we can't give you the answers to your question but we'll work on them with our ad and then provide feedback to the list thank you very much Marcus thank you foreign CTP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "we're currently running roughly two agenda times so we're good we're going to talk about sctp oh you've got the analysis yeah yep so this is about some recent issues or opportunities found in sdp root recently is a joint work with minus vestalon and Claudio perfori um we're not talking about history I will not talk about to solve the problems that would be in other presentations so the security requirement requirement properties for security protocols or systems have increased incredibly since sadp what was was written for the use and for the use cases there uh modern systems typically require strong confidentiality strong Integrity strong replay protection and high availability at least these are the things that 5G require for the the use cases it has for dtls over satp and with strong it was meant that it should be computationally infeasible as hard as breaking is data here refers to has to do with external user messages not internal things like scdp chunks availability is a bit harder to Define but given an attacker should not be I mean easy than expected to affect the availability like Center a single packet and tearing down their Association Next slide uh so these are the issues we have found uh as satp would use this um the keys are not directional you can reflect uh authenticated chunks for example data sets"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "and to do this and you need to be in on path attacker with read capabilities you don't need to have right capabilities for the reflected chunks to be accepted you need to match t7 stream identifier and stream sequence number stream identifier is probably quite easy if you have very large messages in the worst case then the stream sequence number wouldn't change at all and the thing you need to what match is TSM so after 0 to 2 to the power of 31 chunks average total power of 30 in the worst case it's trivial to do this um and what's happened is that you might reflect the whole message you might reflect part of the message corrupt the use message or it might be some error leading to a termination of the association uh uh next uh then as the replay protection duplication relies on TSN and TSN is only has 2 to the power of 32 values uh when this wraps of the if you have a very long Association then you can do replay of data what you have to match is the same as in the reflection attack still worst use case is worst case is that you have very large messages then they only then you just have to wait and it's trivial of the two to 32 messages uh this is very similar to the other the reflection is a little bit easier to do uh than the replay the break slightly different properties um next slide uh three more issues should three"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:04",
    "text": "all of these are analysis of the specifications not any implementation this is a theoretical issue the specification allows you to use the same key with different algorithms and this is typically should not not or must not in modern RBC but I don't see any practical problems with the current algorithms uh number four is reflection but of authenticated control chunks instead of data and this is easier because you don't have to match a TSM uh for example the error message can be trivially reflected back to the sender if you reflect the sac control chunk this might or would or might lead to packet loss missing data any consistent State probably tearing down the association at some point and then heartbeat act might also be an attack availability if you reflect that uh so these four is different and another this is an attack on availability only not on integrity and so on uh and five is that you can do replay of control chunks um very similar analysis um probably worse with reflected stuff like ever like this is what the different overseas and drops says about what they offer uh uh what is clear is that 3dp when reading when specifying this thought that they basically got dtls same property as dtls over UDP they definitely thought they got replay protection for example in the last version of satp over details"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "over satp because five we have made a very thorough list of exact properties that are provided I think that's a general recommendation it should be easy to see what is provided and what is not provided even if you're not an expert in sctp next uh yeah and this is analysis of the what is broken um satp was all definitely does not offer shank origin authentication for example uh like it it promises uh then it all the other most other things whether it promises or not otherwise you can say it doesn't offer them or it offer them in a weak way detail RFC 6083 is a better dtls uses directional keys and it uses single Mac to use the message so you don't break integrity and you don't weaken confidentiality these issues had a worse effect on details over satp piece in the version 4 because it uses several records per user message in zero five issue one to four should be sold as but in general all the attacks on the availability is probably remaining this is also a bit harder to analyze a lot of the handling is implementation specific and not really mandated by the specifications yeah okay Michael Jackson can you go back to the the list of issues right at the beginning which which side we reactors come on we can start with that we know the next one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "yeah so the first one the reflect the reflection stuff that is an issue in HTTP auth we we missed putting in a directional specific information in the in the computation however um for dtls over HTTP that shouldn't be an issue because the dtls keys are directional specific so in attacker should not be able to in to reflect user data and it's being delivered so that's not an issue I think for details over HTTP yeah it could be an availability issue I'm asking about inserting data which looks like it's coming from the peer and it's not and that is not working it would not be accepted exactly the next slide which is the replay stuff and the replay stuff sap authentication does not provide any better replay protection as the base protocol does that's stated in the document and dtls does this by doing renegotiations at least in the the old one where dtls 1.0 was used and you could do renegotiations that's the whole reason why we did add support for renegotiation and it is a dance with sequence numbers and and kind of stuff but we do not have text in there when you do this because you can do this because sequence numbers are wrapping you can do this because you're using an extension at that point or Define we just didn't specify that next slide the third one is something we just didn't know so and yeah it's just there I don't know if it's usable but we just didn't know um four and five is this I don't think you can do anything except availability things however and it's in my view an attacker which can take a packet and uh send it in in in a wrong in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:03",
    "text": "other direction might also be able to just drop packets so it's your host then anyway at least this was at the point of time we did satp auth there was not a huge difference between an attacker who could read packets and who could send packets compared to one who can take out packets but that might have changed I don't know but availability might be an issue yes but can be in other ways and most of the stuff we can fix in a simple way which I will cover in the next you'll be up to next I wanted to get in here more as individual make one quick comment the word replay is being tossed around a little bit cavalierly insecurity replay attacks usually refer to tax where the attacker can replay the attacking data at the time and place of her choosing these replay attacks here they're they are replay attack they are much more specific because they the replay can only happen exactly when the when the sequence number rolls over and comes back around so it's much more limited than we usually see for replay attack and security context it is nonetheless uh an actual attack it's a nice piece analysis thank you thank you yeah I just wanted to briefly say thank you for breaking our stuff valuable things that that we can hear is that our security has got problems and I look forward to the revisions that will come from this it's a huge huge contribution thank you oh okay and I think Now for Something Completely Different we have Michael do we find it it's this one right yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "so we're on sttp security this time Michael yeah um I just forgot that yeah thank you for the analysis so it's it's uh it wasn't up to whatever our our view that we should need to put in some directional stuff because when we did satp authentication we did it in the framework of protecting certain control chunks which we didn't even foresee that they will see there will be a lot of them okay so what's I'm talking about a Biz document um um I started on working on this this document way before not way before but before um I got aware of the security um issues so um years ago there was a document sap auth based someone from submitted by someone I don't know um basically covering some textual improvements where some of the wording was not clear enough for the author and he should and he wanted to improve that so that's definitely something one should we should we we we would include um the motivation of this was based on the discussion um I had with the authors of the dtls document basically um the mandatory to implement algorithm is Shao one hmaker using Shawan and there is the wish to um have other ones deal with this stuff uh and in particular so defined are actually two so the dtls over HTTP wanted to use uh the other one and make sure from the API perspective that they can do this so this is also something um we would um uh add there that you have a way to control this and I think to cover most of the stuff uh John has brought up is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "one is to include a direction specific data in the computation of the of the mac and basically this can be um this is part numbers and the verification tag from the from the common header so this is not equal and and you can just do that and this third theoretical one I think could be solved by um doing a key derivation um a directional specific one um and and then algorithm specific one so the status of the document is um I submitted the zero zero version as similar as possible to the existing RFC um going through formatting it as an internet draft but using the same XML sources I got from the RFC editor I updated it to XML V3 because it was written earlier and I did some wordsmithing and updating the reference about the old ionic in considerations are there no technical content has been changed because next slide um is that one yeah because um the question is whether this should be adopted as a working group item and if yes then it might be better to to change to a working group document and then do any substantial changes there so you can easily see them in the issue in the data tracker there of course when we do this work any additional input will be incorporated but you see the scope of the the changes we wanted to make also Magnus I think brought up going away from the hmac staff generalizing to a Mac allowing more algorithms that's it for my side questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:05",
    "text": "but actually not a question I think it's we need to do do something with sap auth it's it needs to be improved here so it's just I mean we need to fix the issues brought up by John yeah and I guess the polls giving you the answers about working group adoption and people haven't yet read it okay um and given the motivational speech is going on today it may be a good thing to read so we will we will not make any determination about the working group adoption at this moment please read this okay thank you okay next now for something not completely different they are different not completely though no so um my name is Westland talk about the details over satp uh so the latest version is o5 um talk a little bit status we have three issues here on the list uh and a little bit dealing with those what you just talked about uh so but let's take the next slide so um the current status is where we've been working through with Martin Thompson's review we mostly addressed the issues there uh next slide is it yeah um there are a few that's dependent on the issues uh especially on the detailers versioning Etc which will wait what to do resolve before going ahead and do those text changes um but yeah I think a big big relation is to regards to this SD of security issues so but uh let's go forward to that issue then so uh detail is over HTTP in this version has this very higher than a dependency"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "on SD Western 683 has because it's what ensures that the detailers record as a part of the user message protected user message fragments are in the right order therefore any replays Etc is really bad for us because that means that you could actually affect the resulting message message Integrity if you actually get through a data record that's verifies so a straight Replay that actually fits correctly could mean that you actually get corrupted message through that would be really bad there are mitigations here and I think we could go on to that next slide um for the reflection attacks Etc uh and for the reflection attacks we could I mean fix the sap auth that takes care of this would fix that and I think uh re-keying is is a requirement from detailer so sdp is a fairly straightforward making it very clear that you need to retire the any sap auth Keys before you wrapped so um the fact that this is that I'm going to have implementation impact on sdb worth and the stack which means that some of our baselines they go into this is affected but I think it's the other question going forward here is is if these mitigations are sufficient implementable to reaching those security goals we see as being sufficient for for example 3D PPS and 5D deployments there in very long in sessions uh so go to next slide um I really would like to encourage people to guess about these two I'll have some insight and need for this to actually do a security analysis in terms of what what their stands are um the other aspect we see is that the details of sdp is complex there's a lot of corner cases Etc to avoid the CTP implementation impact"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "we have some ideas how we could actually do detail as more in satp which would be simpler enable a less complex detail less details implementation requirements will be simple Etc and and we are actually proposing here to actually uh that we would actually quote write an individual draft for an alternative to just present as as we will have a delay at this stage until satp watch is fixed if you stay on the current path and and that might be that that alternative path is is equally fast or faster to basically it's as fast as to complete and provides Better Properties but uh you know we want to investigate that a bit um so um next slide so if anyone has any comments about the sap host aspects it's now is a good time the next issue we have is is about which detailers Stacks we should support ing only detail as 1.3 would make our life easier from a spec perspective it will also improve I think the potential for an interoperability failure if one side supports only details 1.3 and the other only 1.2 um so um but what was raised in the discussion on the main list when I brought this up earlier was that yeah the availability detail is 1.3 Stacks is currently not great it is much more limited details 1.2 we know that false SSL is in beta it's announced I talked to Summit Mozilla and yeah the NSS is coming there but they will not have connection ID and then important aspects of this is that we did details over STP that's currently in the draft we do have requirements on connection"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "IDs turning off replay and we need large record sizes and or you couldn't need to support negotiation to smaller maximum record size for detailers these are feature we are kind of you need to have for implementation to work so um so Michael a question comment uh yeah I have a question um is it relevant what open source implementation open source details implementations provide since there are API issues so I mean I I are the iprs outside of what you need in a dtls implementation and no I think it's uh so I I let's see how I should answer that question uh I think it brought talk about open source details implementation here is about uh if how you get an implementation of details of satp in place and and that uh I mean details taxes is not trivial there's some lead time if you would if you would go order one and want to have it tested secure Etc it's going to take quite a while and these extra features you're probably gonna have to order that's that's I think is the concern here uh but my point was can I use for so can I use an open source details implementation to implement details over scdp since it has some some patents part of that is patent protected so I'm I'm just not sure what can I what why okay so if if the IPR claims we have for example have is not covering details as it is I mean if it's okay I'm just asking can I yeah can I suggest that this uh uh discussion be taken offline the usability of Open Source libraries in non-open Source has a long"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "track record but what you can do depends on the exact licensing condition of the specific Library which is not a real good topic to discuss here I was just asking because both SSL is given there so it's um I I said I think I think you've opened up a rat hole um I suggest you find legal counsel to to work through the license details yeah yeah now yeah yes I mean my point to bring this up we're just saying what's what's looks appears to be the current situation of public known implementations that's the only thing I wanted to State here so and next next slides uh ah okay but is there anyone having any more input I mean otherwise what was raised on the list was saying uh no we don't want to go to 1.3 and I guess if no one has more input that might be where we'll be stuck here Martin now uh yeah Martin dude Google um no hats uh like the future's bigger than the past if if this is a much shorter document and you're not like desperate to ship it tomorrow as long as we feel reasonably confident that dtls13 is on road maps of major implementations um you know if we could eliminate a lot of stuff like that's good so yeah and I think it's especially dependent on if we can take this alternative road that might reduce this list of features needed which makes it even easier um so I think yeah I've it might be just best to delay this question a bit and see where how long it takes to fix the rest of the aspects here um so uh on this last issue there's one important aspect has to do with uh some Marty brought this up and background here is really that yeah you have those things that are detailed as message between the stacks between the endpoints the handshake the errors and errors or close notify which is terminated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "um we have 63 did stream zero in order delivery of these we changed this to any stream Etc what Martin wrote up was saying well it might be hard to optimize this to ensure that you send the records to the fast path and only take these messages to your slower path um so next slide uh one interesting question in this is the identification of these messages and that's actually I want to hopefully get some feedback on that eventually It's like because 1.3 Heights is what they are the content type is internal it's encrypted and Etc so the stack when it's processed you will know if it was oh this is a allergic message um not so but if you can actually be able to sort this out before you send them to the details implementation we need to have an identifier on them being details message already being details records we protected user messages and and that ends up in a question is we are we okay to expose this it leads to I think some potentials for trying to Target these measures specifically in a low volume or something to to affect the session affecting availability I would say here and not really other things so and but one way of identifying was to do stick your ppid on this particular message that's headed for the the end stack not records but um if someone has an input on this it would be great so um yeah come talk to me or send an email or whatever um the timeline of this will be delayed I was hoping that we would actually have a chance of meeting the March deadline it doesn't look feasible now we need to fix this to be worth fixed or not use another version alternate detailer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "solution um but I hope that we will be able to move forward in reasonable Pace here and we do try to update the drafts uh in not two extents but yeah and I think we might have to notify 3D people about these delays and the Securities should be listed both here so they are aware of it because so so therefore I would like to send an Ellis from this group to so yeah um any questions okay thank you clearly we need to gather some momentum around the sctp and the authentication problems text and new techniques so we'll look forward to inputs on that we have next this okay uh I'm going to cut the announcements about Joe touche's UDP options and the related DPL pmtud for UDP options uh we're awaiting a revised ID from Joe touch which we intend to work in group last call so what if you're interested in an update that's the situation revised ID expected shortly after this ITF so we'll move straight on to Michael Tucson on scdp UDP this is the individual draft go ahead Michael yeah this is an individual draft on next slide and um it basically um deals with satp over UDP encapsulation so this is one of the possible ways to transfer sap over UDP through Legacy nuts and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "not describe how to handle um in its packets containing an inner chunk because you have no verification tag you have no way to verify that this packet is really coming from your peers so is that it has an impact on whether you should update your port numbers or not and um this issue is covered in the draft given there and uh I think when Magnus was already it was still transport ID we asked how to progress and the argument was well maybe you just do a business document instead of having two small documents describing one thing and I asked um Martin got the same response so this is basically um uh the the the the first document trying to join these both next slide um and I did what I did with the other documents submit zero zero as the original RFC changed the XML V3 and do some updates of the documents which were outdated um there are two implementations oh there are two open source implementations in corner sticks right now which is FreeBSD and Linux and both are covered on the RFC and the draft so both are um doing the right thing um but it's not documented in a single document right now in the idea is to um get this cleaned up which is I think the next slide right yep and of course we would incorporate any additional feedback coming up through any kind of discussion could ask the first question yeah the question is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "is the work can go better so at what point is if the working group is not adopting it it doesn't make sense to progress the document so it's an offer foreign do you think this has to be done by whenever there's time and resources sure so there I mean the implementations are there the draft describing the issue is there I can keep it updated it's just that um if if you're just looking based on the experience from the Linux people they they find the RFC but they don't find the draft describing what they also have to do so that's it okay any questions from anyone else I would say less pressure than Earth I I'd encourage feedback on this one um it's something we've talked about a number of times please read it please progress it please come and present again and let's ask those questions when we got more people reading this because I I think it's something that should be of interest to this group given the previous work okay uh Michael not so fast okay so this is a document about um zero checksum next slide um SUV uses as a checksum CSC 32c which is a 32-bit checksum which needs some CPU Cycles to be computed and there are use cases which is webrtc in particular where you run HTTP over dtls so you have a much better protection of your packet from your lower layer than you get from your CRC so um and there are people using webrtc on CPU constrained devices which just don't compute the CRC on the receive side because they can do this without breaking interoperability but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "they can do it they can't do it on the sender side so the idea is to add to the handshake a parameter stating I'm willing to accept zero as a check sum and then you can do this in the handshake you can do it backwards compatible and then you don't have to compute the checksums anymore when you do the data transfer there are co-authors from Google trying willing to implement this into the what's the name Google webrtc implementation used in Chrome there is a quarter from Mozilla I'm willing to integrate this into um the um Firefox browser and um so there is there is support from implementers uh next slide um and we have support in Wireshark we have support and packet tool for doing tests um I'm working on a um on an implementation um and it's a very simple document but we need this document to get the assignment of this parameter so it's specification required that's why it's here and that is a document I would say which is very simple could be progressed very fast and people would like to deploy this so same question as again and we would integrate I mean we would integrate comments and we got comments from gory from Mike and from Ayana basically about we know we normally do in the INX section write the specific number so question two the document author do you want me to ask who's Reddit or do you want to give them a time to chew it over and get a better answer up to you I guess we get the same answer yeah all right okay let's go um here we go who's who has read this document um coming in no who has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "zero I'll come to the mic if you have any question you do exist we have a poll going on on questions concurrently a higher last record so for specimens for specification required you actually don't need an RFC you need a stable specification that's around right but it doesn't need to be done in a working group just saying and the stable specification is a draft which has not changed any time or something that the uh Ayana will accept when they get the request there should be a expert reviewer which might be even you I'm just pointing it out right so it's specification required is not RFC required um and and so there is the option right I'm going to ask an additional question um Lars is correct um but let's ask this question um who thinks this is a useful piece of work which is abbreviating wrk to doing this working group for the next group you for fun in the question to try and stimulate a response at this moment because people might think this is a useful thing to do here even though um they haven't read it because it's pretty clear what it's meant to do and I will keep talking I'll come to the mic ask any questions because we're seeing a response in the chat and we have Mike and Martin uh very quickly if you have specification required it could be published as a uh outside the working group uh I suppose is an option thank you yeah possible yeah Martin Duke"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "Google um you know I asked the question about SCP working group a couple months ago and you told me there was no need now we have five drafts up for adoption um like so yeah I to be clear I've read zero of these drafts but I think the presentations have made a pretty convincing case for all of them you know addressed at some point and I I guess the real question is working group bandwidth for the from the chairs like how many of these can we swallow at once um and do we need to like have some do we need this set up very quick working group to clear through this backlog if these things are Urgent or not um okay we we will triage that question because we also see the same Community uh making the responses for each of these drafts and we will check the work Cycles Etc yeah this particular draft is is simple an additional comment yeah sort of I mean I got flashbacks to win Magnus and I were transporting these and we talked about Dynasty people working group and the reason we didn't at the time was that we felt that the sdb community was too small and it did it wouldn't get enough review and that might as well might have all changed but it doesn't quite appear that way and so it's probably the best home is unfortunately still here we will look at that part of the problem space uh the answer to my poll is clearly people think this is a useful piece of work to do in this working group and so I'd encourage you to keep revising and come for an adoption call in the future okay right uh did you want to say something I guess I need to pull my and to get vigorous about the discussion about once uh just ensuring that I I think this document makes sense in the context this it just needs to be very clear on on its very limited applicability or is saying the requirement that I think it's decently clear already so it's not a problem but uh yeah so yeah because running without checksums verifying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "ports Etc over the internet and having no additional mechanisms would be a bad idea from my perspective exactly the ietf has been through this process in a much more torturous way and I think we can make good recommendations on the applicability for this and we should keep moving because we are a little time left but we have a couple of talks so we should is Nicholas online she is Nicholas your slide deck is ready please present can you hear me yes please go ahead thank you so next slide please uh so this draft is uh activities you have been presenting in ITF uh in different working groups and in particular in a quick working group The Main Idea here on this description is so these first slides are how to quickly catch up with the activity about catching up and on the boundaries so in the satellite industry there are some cases where it takes a lot of time for the condition control to quickly ramp up to the high bdb that is available so this is an experiment we have been we have done where we have been downloading and made with quick and we could have seen that basically on red and the bottom right part of the slide it took a while for quick to actually converge to what was the bandwidth uh the bottleneck that I read um so we have been thinking that storing the idea of knowing what was the best characteristics uh and using it to New connections could be very interesting um the thing is you should not do that uh without any care so you have to be careful about how to do that and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "stop doing it if you find that anything has changed in network um next slide please so we have been proposing different type of uh documents to cover this issue uh in the last summer we there had been a adoption core in the Creek Coffee group for two drafts so basically the first one is careful regime is how you can store computed constant control parameters um to actually modify the Construction Control behavior of subsequent connections let's say and the first connection I understood I was using a satellite link and on the next connection to the same peer I just want to use and previously computed control parameters um we also had another draft which was a specific implementation of that issue so we have basically the bdb frame extension for quick that has been implemented in Pico quick and tested over a real satellite Networks this is how to store and exchange the completed values uh between peers so we have been populating that to Quick working group and um basically the discussion the conclusion of the a different call was that supportment space is more broadly to do with consistent control and not really quick specific um indeed uh we need to must we this solution must to effectively share the capacity with all the transports and um maybe there is a way to do that with all the transports so that's why we are here and to see if there are any discussions here that are related to and relevant for the tsv WG um basically this what are the Construction Control items that we think could be interesting for the group um so if we assume that we have had a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "first connection that I finished and the information has been stored um we think a question an open question that we have is um what what event information you you can obtain to change that the path has not changed that much so we're seeing that for example if you lose back if you lose packets after sending the first ADW uh there should be some problem in the network so you may not uh resume to the previous construction parameters you can use a minimum entity values you can also use the interpack enter packets time the interpacking time on other activities we have measured that this metric was very useful to detect conception in the network so we think there is this discussion here uh we have discussed some algorithms in the draft that we have been we have posted recently um then when you know that the path has been checked how do you carefully jump uh you may not want to use to go directly to what was the previously measured bandwidth so you may want to be careful in that and some sort of specific slow sort algorithm um let's say uh you just did the jump how did you react if you see any Collision um in the network and also Implement when Christiano implemented that in uh Pico quick we saw that there are some aspects that are very specific on the construction control that you have been using if you use cubic or Reno it's different um you may have I start or I start plus plus uh making your Construction Control going out of the slow starts so you this is something that we think is very interesting to discuss and these items are currently discussed in the in the current version of the draft uh next slide please that's what I'm saying that are related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "to transports but not maybe third relevant 40s vwg um it's basically how do the clean tasks for this jump because in the quick implementation we have been using the Sierra TT and the TLs certificate signaling or we at least we use a specific frame that is protected by TLs but the problem is that when you use um you may you may end up being very specific on both Construction Control and the series visions that you have you are using basically to know what do you send and when do you send it and how protected this information is and also another aspect is really the real system performances of that and that is not covered in the draft for the moment but in the end um we have been pushing out for this working quick cooking group we've been said that maybe this should be addressed with a more wider view so we were wondering if there is any interest in the csgwg to is there any appetite for this work and if you would want to to join us as we seek to define the appropriate details of such solution thank you Nicholas any questions to Nicholas okay we'll take peers you have peers please come to the mic uh hi yeah um I was just wondering uh this has been going this has been used um by TCP in um Linux kernel for some time like TCP metrics or whether you've looked at the uh how that works um with in comparison to the approaches you've been considering because it caches like a sea wind rtt and then it obviously um reuses those for the different congestion control algorithms that are kicking off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "yeah um so these thank you we there we have been looking at that uh and also we wanted to have this kind of TCP metrics save for quick and in a way that is interoperable in a way that the client can participate in the decision on whether this Matrix is used or not okay yeah so I guess it was just useful to look at how that that's been working to inform how you might kind of start do the same thing it obviously works reasonably well yeah indeed so they have timeouts and stuff like that in the in the TCP metrics um so they they don't last forever and I don't know I'm not quite sure about the some algorithms around that but anyway okay that's good you're looking at it Pierce could you send a email to the list please can I add an email to the list with what you just said that would be so helpful okay yeah I think I did very briefly I think it was mentioned on the Quick List and I mentioned it yeah but then it kind of went over here so then okay I can do that yeah and that'll be so helpful and while we're talking about where it might be going uh I think it's the queue for Martin to come to the mic for one minute yeah uh I just want to announce to people uh many of you probably remember from tsv area 114 a discussion about now could you ask control working group possibility um that chartering work is still going along in the background and for those of you who might be interested it will be a side meeting at 5 p.m on Thursday uh please come by if this is up your alley thank you thank you so thank you Nicholas as a chair and we will encourage discussion of that item on the list I think we've had feedback"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "for that particular document in various places in the ietf so I'd encourage you to carry on working on it and we will try and find a home working with our ID obviously Thursday is an interestingly to attend if you possibly can and I'll take my mask off to stand here to put yet another flavor on the whole story um which is a draft that I produced a little while ago which may or may not be related to all the story so next slide please um okay this slide kind of captures what I was trying to do the ITF has said about much about congestion control in the past much of it has prevented a meltdown congestion collapse on starvation of the internet does Our advice still apply hmm we should perhaps check this there's more than 40 references which are informative on this and about 10 which are normative descriptions of congestion control things you need to do next in 2019 and I decided to write a four-page document on the core things that would encourage a cc to play well what happens if you make a new congestion controller what would you be needed and next it took more than four pages next so um I wrote a draft I presented in Singapore you might go what happened well what happened is we failed to meet as a community face to face and this actually is more I think of a design team type activity than it is of a design activity so I wanted to resurrect it now we are starting to meet face to face and I would encourage you to come around talk about whether the ITF has made the right recommendations in the BCP series for its congestion control and maybe we can add another RFC or update one or maybe we'll just conclude with a bit of guidance this is actually okay I don't have an opinion but I've tried to write a draft and this is the draft story and we're now at draft seven"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:01",
    "text": "please go quickly next please um there's a principles of congestion control and the key thing that I'm motivating is that things have changed we absolutely must be preventing persistent congestion that's things like starvation congestion collapse and lots of other horrible things which would result out of work but we I also have to react to incipient congestion by adjusting the rate of particular flaws to nicely play with one another and I think these exist at different levels of importance and we've kind of recognized that over the years but it's not really reflecting the RFC series to the same extent so I've tried to group the recommendations on these two topics separately next slide um yeah I rewrote um I changed a lot and it's like um there's a table of contents just to encourage you it's not actually as long as it looks because some of this is um motherhood and apple pie and some of it is the new stuff well the new stuff just grouping the old stuff so actually it's an easy read so please read it next slide and is anyone willing to play with me on trying to get this right and that's the reason for standing here um I've had one or two offers at this meeting of people who've worked in congestion control previously and would be really great people to have on my side to try and get this right if you're willing to join me please do if you've got different opinions to me even better I don't mind I don't mind what the recommendation is I just mind that we get a new one that is appropriate or we established that the current ones are quite right so anyone will help me please come and speak to me after this meeting foreign very quick pitch from Martin if you want to do it do you want to talk or do you want to just assure the slide so Martin's talking as an individual and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:00",
    "text": "this is on the ecn story go ahead Martin yeah all right I'm not going to go all the way through this but um there's a bunch of ecn drafts out there um uh I don't think they cover all the cases specifically I did a review of a ipsec draft that like matches a bunch of packets together uh if you match together different ecn markings given that CE is now sort of ambiguous uh there's trouble next slide and so after a lot of thinking and a lot of assumptions which are probably wrong and ought to be challenged like I came up with this big truth table please take a look uh if there's something we want to do we can do it if we want to somehow Munch documents together it's getting late in the day but we could do that too um let me know thanks so uh David black speaking individual I took a look at I took a look at this and the existing drafts this is a standalone piece of work uh Mark we would Martin's take that it's not covered in 60 40. it looks like it would be a useful update and as individualized support just just taking this forward and doing this as an add-on to 60 40. foreign people here the meeting's not over uh we're carrying on the IHF meeting for a while so please continue to talk about transport things this particular session's finished uh thank you for attending see you online or in person if you're here thank you everybody things listed so I don't know if you didn't realize that when you requested your sessions we should ask but there's the evidence yeah so um yes that's fine so next time uh answer two because um there's another hour material we can get"
  }
]
