[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "well you can't get into restaurants restaurants they want to restaurants it's 2 30 local time we intend to start on time a very busy agenda so please take your places welcome to vienna i cannot even convey how happy i am to see i'll hear all 10 of you at least so uh welcome to idea 113 routing working group and we'll start with meeting as usual not well please make yourself familiar with how your contributions and participation in itf is treated ipr disclosure at routing working group will ask you to declare ipr when the individual document progressed towards working group document and before working group last call unless we have received all ipr statements for all authors and contributors documents won't progress uh let's review our agenda quickly there are more explanation on the wiki so i'll be very quick uh we'll have uh young for qos thanks for authors we are pretty much ready for working with plus call last reviews apn will update us with all the progress we've made over the last couple of eight years we've got number of research topics a lot of interesting new work as well as update on rfc 5798 thanks ac for taking it up uh we don't have any rc's since 112. we've recently adopted point to multiple and bfd for vrp uh working document the qs model as i said is getting pretty much ready for working what's called"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "uh reebok standard as well bgp peak is pending ad review it is here too to remember uh so thanks for uh stuart bryant for reviewing uh tilfa draft there's still a couple of reviews that needs to be addressed by the authors uh atnbgp has reviewed couple of by a couple of people we need more reviews here and authors of the service six egress protection draft have requested working group plus call so we are about to start the process and uh please use our wiki to get more information about progress of the drafts about work that's going on there's a new work coming in so we are ready to start engine you are going to start sharing criteria preloaded already center is asi um yeah you can do the slide sharing yourself just click the share preloaded slides okay so you will be uh moving the slides for me right um you i can do it or you can if you prefer to do it yourself it's also okay you can do click the share preloaded slides oh i'll do it for you then okay all right i can start right yes please okay so hello everyone my name is asim chaudhary and i am going to cover qscang model next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "okay so in the latest version of the draft we have added a configuration for randomly detect and weighted randomly detect we have taken care of lot of young doctors command we have added a lot of acronym same definitions we have improved the language and explanations and we have had a lot of references as well and in addition we were facing some warning draft warnings we have taken care of those and based on those modifications we have come up with version 7 of the draft and we have published it next slide please all right so if we are looking to randomly detect configuration it's something which fall under algorithmic drop and drop algorithm drop algorithm is appended to the queue configuration now the queue can be configured in line versus a queue can be configured as a template so so under the queue we have drop algorithm and under the drop algorithm we have case statement for randomly detect or weighted randomly detect now if we talk about randomly detected configurations we have a minimum threshold value and maximum threshold value and there are corresponding units to it so the units could be in bytes or in time like millisecond or it could be in percentage and uh there is a configuration for weight now what is weight is a decay factor in calculating the average queue size now weight value is two's exponent so for example if somebody configure a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "then 2 raised to power 2 become 4 and that means the instantaneous value of the queue will account for 25 and the previous average queue size will account for 25 75 and so and so forth it reflect or effect uh the the randomly detect algorithm functionality accordingly now we also have provider configuration for max probability value so it is the probability of dropping a packet at the max threshold value we have allowed the configuration of units for e2 and the unit could be in per cent or per thousand or per million and and could be also a probability denominator so for example if somebody wants to configure like you know i want to drop one packet off for every four thousand packet then he would configure probability denominator and set the probability value as four thousand so also you know if you look into randomly detect configuration we have allowed the configuration for ecn enabled that is explicit congestion notification and what does that mean is instead of dropping the packet if you find that the packet need to be dropped so if the ecn is enabled and the packet has ect bit enabled then uh instead of dropping the packet it will be marked the congestion experience bit will be marked and it will not it will be sent the packet will be sent and will not be dropped next slide please all right so so vt red is very very similar to randomly detect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "except that we have multiple profiles per queue and that means every single profile represents one color of traffic so for example if we have a dhcp value of af41 we can configure that as a profile and which will have its own minimum value and maximum value uh and corresponding you know probability value and weight value and so and you know similarly we can have a dhcp value af 42 f43 or af21 as separate profiles uh under the same queue next slide please all right so uh as next step uh we have got you know a lot of uh comments to be taken care of we have already worked on quite a few so far and we are working further to address that you know some of them involved improving nomenclature enhancing descriptions correcting some of the definitions formatting one or two sections and further improving the references and also we are you know working on to improve further explanation into the draft also you know while working on the draft we actually had uh added a lot of features to the extent that you know we have you know if feature for a lot of actions which we thought that some vendor may support and some vendor may not support but eventually we found that you know it is causing uh too many features to be there and frankly speaking those are not required so we want to simplify the draft to get rid of some of the features uh which are anyway common features and expected to be implemented and so we'll be uh simplifying the front"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "uh draft further by removing some of the features also uh for the statistics uh we had created a separate draft for the stats for the qs model the reason that time was uh that it it required a lot of discussion for every single counter and we thought that we'll be taking too much time and we can separate it out uh but over a period of last several months we have quite stabilized the counters we are not further changing except that the blue red counter we have added this time so it's a pretty stable draft and we agree on those counters and so we want to merge back that particular stats module back into the qs model so that we have a common model for configuration as well as for statistics um yeah i would like to address and see some of the comments from the working group on that thank you very much if there are any questions i'm ready to address that any questions uh i see there's comments from adrian on the chat so probably we could do it offline thanks really good work and we are getting there okay thank you ac you're next okay can everybody hear me yep i'm uh ac linden from cisco uh i d yeah dogra isn't here isn't on the call but he's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "team lead for the ios xe um implementation of brp version three and steve natas was the original not the original offer of vrp but the original offer of the of or the offer of our of our of rfc 5798 which took it to v3 and consolidated stuff that was in both the existing rfcs and um and a draft on uh vrp for ipv6 next slide now unless unless you've been living under a rock you're aware that a lot of the major vendors my cisco and others have adopted um a plan to try and uh replace their uh documentation replace all the terminology that is non-inclusive into inclusive and at the same time this was happening you know a few years back and then about a year later the ietf came up with a with the same and and others i'm not really keeping up with other standards organizations but other standards organization did the same so as you're you know from dating back to 80s the whole terminology of master and slave was very common in uh networking protocols you know in both in the ietf and ieee so what what the main motivation was we looked at vrp version 3 and rfc 5798 and we could see that just issuing the draft that updated it it was almost as if every paragraph"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "included the state master i mean uh there there definitely wasn't a page that didn't have it and what we chose was to leave it wasn't master and slave it was master and backup in in you know in brp since i was involved with the first one it was about in 1994 that the vrp version 2 uh became a standard um ever since then it's always been ma master and backup so we're retaining backup but we're replacing master with active which seems to be very uh a very natural choice it seems like it's consistent with other h high availability protocols and things to have an active and a backup and at the same time since we're doing a biz we're fixing all the errata errata actually there wasn't that many i fixed them uh after aditya did the initial uh changing of all the uh terminology and and and another thing now this time we're hoping to get some good reviews i don't i remember when 57 98 biz came through i didn't think we got i i reviewed it really well but i don't know that we got as many reviews as we should have now we might investigate it taking it to internet standard i don't know i think i'm pretty sure since this is just really a terminology change i'm sure we can i'm hoping we can just leverage interop testing that's been in the in the past we'll start a thread on that it's not a the last one isn't a isn't a high priority it's just that if we can do it as a byproduct of doing this biz we'll do that as well next slide there's other rfcs there's also the vr there's rfc 6527 which has the vrrp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "version 3 miv now we don't have a film a firm plan but uh aditya says he's interested in doing this so uh i think he'll i i think he'll um watch this space once we get this one adopted for this would you want to take questions now or then yeah i'll take them now here cair patel arcus hey ac quick question um it's great to see you replace the terminology here um are you planning to do the same with the yang model for this protocol oh does it mean are you a plant in the audience i don't think so it's the question or the the slide after the next one okay super thanks greg mirsky the uh jumping um ahead of ac i just um let you know uh i already uploaded their updated uh bfd and vrp document uh aligning with the terminology and thank you and i support this work okay oh oh the draft yes that draft i actually i did i didn't i didn't mention any drafts in this presentation only full rfcs because i just assumed if this gets accepted as a working group document people will update the dra the inner working draft between bfd and brp and any other drafts that pertain to vrp this one uh uh f once once once we get this accepted and maybe it goes through a reuse cycle this is a very short draft rfc 90 7910 i'll contact"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "the offer uh jeffrey and i'm sure it wouldn't take much to do a biz on this as well it's an informational draft too and next slide yeah uh i'm a co-author of this draft the yang model 8347 so i plan once again once this one settles a little bit you know at least gets uh accepted as a working group document and maybe i'll start i'll start work on this one we we know how to do both for the mibs and the and even the uh even the yang models it's a little painful but we know how to do it we can deprecate i think we can deprecate uh the old tables and and and bring in the new tables okay are you going to say something yeah careful archus hey um we we would support this work and as soon as you change this uh we uh we'll be more than happy to show interoperability with um the new rfc as well as the model okay yes that that that's a that's a good point you know like the mibs whereas the code changes are pretty much just cosmetic for the base protocol you know the show commands or whatever uh the mib the mibs and the the mib and the yang model will require deprecation of old uh old tables in the case of erp and old uh yang nodes in the case of um of the yang model we're gonna we so we we plan to do that i know i know i i did do some work i'm gonna it's gonna take more investigation to see what the least intrusive way to do this the good news is i don't know of any up uh implementations of of this draft i could ask oh i could ask uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "the main offer who's shoe fan i'll ask him if he knows of any and kiara's showing finger so arcos has an implementation all of this as well okay okay yeah i guess i guess i guess i should that that the second sub bulletin is wrong then and the final slide i think i think this is a good place for it i think vrp since we don't have the vrp working group and then we could possibly discuss this terminology but really we've i think active is a natural choice i know in things like this it kind of gets in to be a naming con test and people will put out a suggestion just for the sake of putting one out but unless you have a real good reason to choose something other than active uh we really don't need any suggestions and i'm requesting working group adoption uh chris hey hi ac um i was just gonna make a comment about the yang i think i i think you'll be able to run them together right so that it won't be it'll be backward compatible right you could you can have the old names and the new names return the same data yes yes a matter of fact we did something with that with uh with i mean i i i'm not i know you're you're up on all the tool kits and and other things uh there's other people at my company who do all that that that kind of stuff but i remember we did the same with when we did the ndma model for the uh the yang routing model it was uh on that it was loot me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "lou and uh oh help me out well in any case you have a we have an example that way so that's good the guy from the guy from uh prague who's in the in the isp there peter senec no peter works for us peter's from slovakia bro i think we need to cut here we'll figure out yeah okay so that was my point that i think he'd be done back right that's what i mean you got it ying zhan yeah okay so uh we'll talk to our ad with regards to right place i think routing is the right place to treat all vrp bus drives but we need to confirm and ac thank you for taking the work it's important to use inclusive language albert any comments or sure alberto donald so as long as we're here why don't we ask if there's interest in the room here and virtually of course to take on this work here um i i believe it probably the this is the right place right there there's no point in uh spinning anything else up so why don't we ask that and then we make the decision of whether we do it here or we do it somewhere else okay so we'll take it to the list right oh you wanna ask me right now yes dear hockey working group do you think routing is the right place to do re-spins or erp beast drops ham don't we have a tool isn't there a way to raise your hands oh yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:05",
    "text": "some chat people are agreeing with this okay we have to create a poll and then we can vote on that okay i had a problem with the show of hands tool oh here it is now it is seems like we are all in agreement thank you everyone i see we are taking work here in rotten let's see okay we are moving to apn updates somehow the stuff is not disappearing hello can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "hello yeah just a second let me try to get it off the screen yay yeah please go ahead okay thank you chair this is shooping and the gaian and myself will present the updates of apn next please i will first go through the history of the apn at ietf it has been three years since we first started the work and thanks to the feedback we received from the community and the guidance from isd we have been progressing after we proposed the framework in 104 and we held our first assad meeting and we gathered our initial interest team and we started exploring valuable use cases and in 107 we applied for above for the first time but it was rejected and we were suggested that there were similar attempts in the ietf history we analyzed all the buffs in ietf and we further clarified our scope and published the new drafts and further we held our second side meeting and we invited the people who were aware of the history and also he gave us the advice on how to progress the apn and the further we had our second above application it was tentatively uh approved but not held finally and we were suggested to clarify the work in wider community that's why we presented in the four"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "areas in one one one zero and our third above application was withdrawn and we were suggested that a full apn focus the interim meeting will be arranged in rtgwg thanks to this arrangement we were very well prepared for our buff and our fourth wolf was approved and held over 200 people attended this world and from all the seven itf areas it showed clear interest and very active discussions we got a clear summary from the chairs and the guidance from ad that is that we should publish some solution drafts to show people what are in my in our mind and from the both we also got some questions and we categorize them in total 38 issues and we systematically work on them and address those issues and based on that we clarify the drafts and publish the new drafts and updates the old ones and uh guyan cayenne is not here so i will continue so uh in summary uh you can see that we have okay so we have uh presented the sixth time in rtdwg and we had two set meetings and four buff applications and three hacksaws and currently we got over 10 active drops please you could take the takeover thank you sure ah yes hi this is gian mishra and i'll take over presenting for the next few slides so we can go on to the next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "yes so after the apn buff we had received a lot of feedback from the buff and uh we we've gone through and compiled a list of 38 open issues from the buff and through that we had gone through systematically and addressed every every one of the issues that came up from the apn uh as well uh for immediately following the book uh adrian had uh put together a nice summary of you know feedback from the boss so just compiling everything just the entire um of what what it transpired through the buff and and then going through it and systematically closing out you know all all outstanding issues so we made here we do fuel and made you know some really good progress um at lea you know you know getting a grip on anything that was outstanding and closing everything out this has all been documented on the github link and it's it's in the top right hand corner um if anyone's interested in and looking at it that has all the uh details of the uh of the feedback feedback and closure of all the issues next slide so from the uh feedback and issues uh there was two key draft updates uh from the discussions that we had and one of the key issues that came up through the above was was related to apn work and apn and and and related to the limited trust domain and and how that works so and a clear a clarification with that is related to apn is also ipn is only applied to an edge to edge tunnel encapsulation within a limited domain so from a from a apn head end to an ingress node to an e-respe but it's encapsulated so as soon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "as the packet hits the egress pe where the de-encapsulation happens so from a tunnel source to tunnel destination at that time destination the uh the apn header is removed and then the pat and then the uh native packet is exited so any overlay technology mpls or srv6 where there is a where there's an encapsulation that would be applicable to apn uh you know it would within that uh limited domain framework the other question that came up uh within the drafts and we it within the uh and when we've updated the drafts to uh reflect as well as uh issues that were closed out was related to uh an encryption domain and security issues so with that so with the apn attribute the attribute is acquired based on existing information in the packet such as a five-top little q and q um provider and customer vln at the edge of the apn network and then added added to the data packet so the clarification there was related to an encryption domain and when encryption you know is present so with apn the attribute is acquired based on existing information packet header and then the clarification is the source and destination address and the incoming thereto or mpl's encapsulation incoming physical or virtual port information or the fields of the five tuple if they're not encrypted so just other fields not just the five tuple as there may be fields within the fight within the standard five tuple may may not be readable may be encrypted so the clarification related to that related to an encryption domain go on third question lars go ahead hi yeah alex i got either actually reaction to the last slide where you talked about the github issues because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "remember correctly i raised an issue that i thought was sort of pretty fundamental and simple namely what happens if the application makes a request that the network for whatever reason can't satisfy and the issue was closed and because with the resolution to be discussed and um no discussion as far as i know ever happened at this point i sort of felt a little bit like um you know my um attempt to engage wasn't really being taken seriously so i i stopped and i'm hoping that wasn't the case for other issues that were closed but personally i sort of feel a little bit ambivalent about describing that all issues were addressed when i feel mine at least wasn't thank you thank you lord you know after you know i've run through this deck if um if there's any questions i will have we'll have a brief period that we can go through any questions uh discussions related to any of the open issues that may or may not have been closed as you had mentioned so we would like to we want to be open and address any any outstanding or anything that maybe may have been prematurely closed we would like to you know be openly addressed any any questions thank you you're breaking out um please continue we will take it over yeah okay we can go to the next slide okay so we would like to ask the routing working working group for adoption of the framework related documents at this point uh we feel we feel that there is a lot of interest and support for this work um we think that in general the routing architecture work you know that we have with the framework document is a good starting point um you know that describes the the uh apn"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "architecture and i think we you know we feel that we are at a good good point with the development of this uh solution uh move forward with adoption thank you thank you gun so uh this is the third update in routing and uh in consultation with our ide we strongly feel that routing is not really a right place for progress in this document so the options are to create another working group with very clear milestones and dates and how we proceed after or proceed towards independent submissions so if alvaro wants to comment on any of that sure i guess i'll comment um so just to clarify um the request is for adoption of the framework and the documents that are up there not for the adoption of the solution documents so it was mentioned before in the slides there so i don't know 10 plus documents out there somewhere so thinking about that what that means is that there were probably if there is interest right you know that's the first of course skating question right if there's interest from the community to work on any of this uh there will probably need to be additional discussion on what any solution would look like beyond the framework which is one of the reasons why we believe that if there is interest i keep saying this because that's the the really important part"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "it wouldn't be appropriate for the routing working group to take that on but it would be better to have a focused discussion somewhere else so i think we we should start there right and see if there's questions here i see yari standing in line somewhere um and if there is interest for us to continue the discussion on adoption and if there is then we can figure out um what appropriate next steps would be and where we can constrain some of the discussions thank you thanks alvaro sounds great so next step is for us to send email to working group oh yeah go ahead yeah sorry i didn't want to jump the line i was just uh waiting for opportunity so did you want to finish or publish gossip yes i just wanted to say that uh in general i'm actually quite interested in in this application every networking area uh in in in general that i'd like to enable some collaboration between applications and and networks um but unfortunately on this particular topic or proposal we've had some time passed by because like uh i guess from my perspective we've been maybe a little bit too ambitious in terms of what we're trying to achieve and that has courts caused some some issues if if i remember that the latest buff conclusion there was actually two major issues issue number one was that do we actually need new end caps and um protocols to carry stuff or our existing ones sufficient so that that was one issue the other issue was that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "several members of the community felt that that if you have two general mechanisms for carrying information in in the package in this manner then there's a danger that they'd be used for you know highly granular application or user identity or or location identity or some similar things so that might be privacy wise um not great so i'm a interested in uh like what was the fate of these two issues and i'm sure you haven't actually checked the the github repo but i will if you post a link there somewhere um the other comment that i had that we um separately have been writing some of us uh uh tommy polly amelia ted's a document on in the iab about uh path signal collaboration draft iab path signals collaboration i think it is zero zero and um that document tries to set out some guidelines on when like collaboration can can happen and when it cannot for for various reasons whether it's privacy related or whether it would you know somehow limit the evolution of the network in the future or would endanger some some issue so um i'm not saying that our zero zero draft has all the right ideas it probably doesn't but it will be a useful exercise to take that and run it against the current proposal that we have for apn and see whether um all the uh uh suggestions are complied with or not and and that could lead to either changes in apn or changes in our document i'd be happy to uh work on that together with some some other people if if you're interested it'd be nice to have a test case for for that document as well um i i don't have a comment on this like i don't think this framework sometimes i think some of these high-level questions are kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "very high level that need to be decided the approach needs to be decided before you nail down the framework but but i'm not going to comment otherwise in that thank you uh yeah the link to the repository has been posted in the chat so you can use it i will post my link to our document also in a second joel i i expect mostly this will come out on the list in the discussion but the assumption that this framework is the right place to start on how do applications work with the network seems to be a false assumption and the the improvements from the addressing of the issues don't really change that i do not i would love to see us figure out a good way to get applications to interact with and request services from the network no that is a valid thing that's something we need it should take into account the privacy stuff that yari and company are working on and lots of other things but this framework is not the right starting point it it assumes that the problem is fundamentally a routing problem and i don't at all think that is the place the problem should even be starting there have been more buffs than you can shake a stick at which basically concluded no this didn't make sense to work on the way it is being approached and so i think that the problem is more fundamental than just fixing this framework thank you i will thanks joe so uh we'll take to the list we'll send email to routing with cc apn and we'll take it from there then so the link to the repository posted please review whether your comments have been answered and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "we'll move to the next presenter so lynn you can see yes yep can you hear me yeah uh hello everyone uh this time uh uh we will uh update two uh old draft uh problem uh statement and the semantic address also we have uh two new drafts today i only give a little bit more discussion about third draft interactive instructive routing next slides please so here i just uh quickly go through uh our whole objective uh our objective is to uh explore open solution for layer three uh for large scale uh eru constellation for internet access and antenna integration nk integration is a requirement from 3gpp for next-gen radio access and the satellite level is a huge and link is huge and also the isr is used not like a current space link a starlink and it provides global coverage and most importantly is a is following the regenerative mode in 3gpp so most people ask me question which is transparent mode it only has a l1 uh work so we are not working for that part what we expect and what we do is we just try to provide basic iep technology for satellite network and we try to seek the feedback from working group and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "obviously this topic is pretty broad and this presentation cannot cover all solutions maybe more draft we are coming and we will not do anything regarding to 3gpp relate to 3gpp next file space this is a review for the problem and we only have a little update for the draft and if you want to see more explanation here we have another set of slides more information there and in the slides we i answered most of the questions collected in the previous meeting and also in the ietf e2 set mail discussion and also i added the 3gpp engine run requirement of cellar network where the iep infrastructure is required to provide the connectivity uh also in the slides i have a simulation for mobility links and the path you can see how dynamic of the network looks like next slides here is the update for the semantic address and [Music] we only have uh add one section 32-bit cinematic address and this picture shows what is the address will be look like we have three indexes and you can either use it with in ipv6 or using independently next slice please now we come to the new uh draft uh satellite interactive routing so the purpose is to provide a a rotting solution for satellite network why we need to do this because we have uh if we use igp or bgp we have uh following uh challenges uh link uh keep flipping and the link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "matrix keep changing then unsteady link also flipping also the possible link interruption at the polar area above the uh will cause huge igp protocol message flooding if we use igp of course there's only one protocol right now in industry to to do the advanced reporting so igp will face a lot of problem for this and will automatically reduce the service time next slide please this is a picture how the satellite network looks like it has two set of uh satellites moving to two different directions and uh we have a terminal uh connect to satellites uh connect with user also we have a terminal ground state a gateway ground station connect to internet also connect to satellites all these links are keep changing and the link metrics are also keep changing and the uh in addition to the mobility of satellites the ground station also keep moving because the uh has earth's rotation so next slice please so if we use igp for uh to provide ipconnectivity definitely we can do it but the problem is that huge number of links there and the link is keep changing so which will result in the uh service time dramatically reduced here we have formula uh some paper analysis that says only 20 less than 20 percent time will be service time all the time will be re in the convergence next slide so uh when we consider the solution we have to think about the what is the spatial characteristics of the satellite level first for satellite network according to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "3gpp it's just the kind of carrier network or the transport network so the only provided traffic transport traffic between satellites or between the ground station and satellites and the aerial constellation has very ordered topology even it's it's extremely dynamic so first of all it's a multi-layer grid network even interleaved and moving to different direction second is that its link number is limited about four to six and also the address as we are proposing the semantic address their addresses can be self explained so we can use that to identify satellites so the last is a satellite position is predictable because everything is following the physical laws and the if we know the orbital elements we can predict predict the adjacency and also predict the link matrix because the space environmentation is has much less interference like in our atmosphere next slides so here we have the uh principles for our hybrid solution first we want to make maximize the usage of the computation and in the routing to reduce the message so for example we can compute compute the network topology and the link metrics also predict which satellite can be can connect to which ground station second principle is that we won't borrow the igp for the satellite network topology and the state detection so uh one proposal is related to the ospf we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "use the ospf to to maintain the link state uh third one is that we can utilize the semantic address uh for the routing purpose the last is that we want to minimize the routing overhead because if we directly use the ipv6 or second routine and we will see a huge number of the overhead so we want to reduce it that's the purpose of the last draft next slides so here i just quickly go through the how the interactive routing works it's very simple it's kind of a source routing basically we have a source to calculate the parts like this the [Music] from terminal ground station to destination ground station we are a couple of satellites then we can easily convert this to be a couple of segments and the segment is either on the same orbit or on the adjacent orbit and after com compressed to be uh segments we can convert to be instruction directly because the we have very limited number of the forwarding direction and also very limited number of the links so for example they we we define the instruction as a function and arguments we have a set of functions to guide the satellite falling to which direction actually we only have six direction measuring and then we check the arguments value to see if we reach the endpoint of the segments so finally we have very simple uh uh instruction list we can embed it in the packet next slide in one minute sure next slide so here we give the uh uh one uh user plan uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "example which is a tunnel less we just use the introduced new routing type to embed the instruction to be packaged next slides yeah here is a summary of the interactive routing i don't go through each of them but compared with the current solution definitely we have we can see the advantages either in the lookup or the memory or the overhead size for the package also reduction for the isl link bandwidth that's all thank you any questions can just be a generic response uh you need to put yourself in the queue and then [Music] dance take it to the mic uh john go ahead um so this is is pretty interesting um but i have kind of a basic question i don't think has been addressed which is um is this a good candidate for standardization i mean to to my knowledge and this is not my field um these satellite constellations are um proprietary networks that are launched and managed by a single entity so um i'm not going to argue about the the value of the research i'm just wondering is this a thing that's a candidate for standardization thank you yes actually for that question i have uh some answer in my problem statements workshop uh why i can't need to do this i have listed some reasons yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "okay thank you i'll take a look so in general uh you're asking for significant amount of work that is large and requires either new routing protocol at least some changes to mana potentially uh what are your expectations there's significant number of drafts that are progressing kind of asynchronously what do you expect yeah we agree this is a pretty broad topic and right now there's no dedicated working group in the uh uh idf uh at this moment we just seek the comments from different to see what we can proceed okay thank you let's let's continue with next one uh there was question from engine the draft is informational is that intentionally or you plan to change the status eventually linseries still to you hello can you hear me yeah just give me one minute uh so if lynn comes up he can address it i see people uh positively reacting and asking to continue this work in uh itf it's still unclear where and when so we'll continue the discussion uh please go ahead insane okay hello everyone and i'm easton leo from channel mobile and today i will present the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "considerations for the protection of sr6 networks next slide please and uh first we uh use the uh protection of sr6 network um by the sr6b and the battlefront first parts or t parts by using the policy and if we use the t parts we recommend the compressed segment list encoding and for the protection of the sr56 network firstly is the parts protection including the local protection and the e2e protection and the secondly is the service protection also including the local protection protection and the third one is the coexistence of the service protection and the power protection and the third part uh i will introduce the running code status in the chain mobile and the fourth part i will give a very quick overview of further examples next slide please for the past protection and and the first is the local protection and definitely we use the tfa and and if if the compressed sr6 is enabled uh in the network i will recommend the gsr6 the repair node should try to use the compressed seed to encode the tfa repair parts and to the e2e protection and the candidate parts with the second the highest preference uh can be selected as the backup parts and if all the candidate parts fail and we should use the be parts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "and for the limits check uh and for the local protection we can use the bfd for the interface or for between the neighbors for the policy or for the t parts and we can use the bfd for the policy next side please and for the service protection and it means that the egress pe deployed the same service like the vpn if the primary egress pe fails we can switch over to the backup pe and the for the local repair we can use the sr6 seagrass protection draft uh and with the mirror seat and for the e2e we can use the ingress node switchover and steals the full flow to the parts of the backup egress pe and the liftness check recommended use the vfd for the locator or the p address or for the specifically used service seat and the co instance of the service protection and the path protection we have two strategies and the first one is the egress note first and the second one is the t first next slide will uh show more clearly next step piece and for the strategy and for the primary and next hub we uh for the post of this strategy we use the te parts to the p2 and the primary egress pe and for the egress node first strategy one the primary next hub fails and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "we will switch over to the sr6be parts to the p2 and the button for the t first strategy we will switch over to the te parts to the p3 and move move to a backup egress pe so that's a main difference of the two strategies it can meet the different requirements of the operator so next slide please okay this is the radical status in chat mobile we we have finished the lab interrupt test last year by using the gsi 6 for the above protection solution by using the the controller from the channel unit tags and by the device from the huawei h3c and dte and also we have a finished child of the gfsix protection with above solution in three province branch networks last year next slide please uh the next uh several slides i will give a very quick uh overview uh for the examples next slide please firstly it's the sra 6be deployments and for this for this example we deploy the be parts to the p3 and p4 and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "primary p and the backup pe and we also uh deploy the vfd for the locator of the both of the pes and odd nodes enable the tfa nexus type piece if the be parts failure just use the trva repair parts to protect the traffic next slide please and if the egress pe failed uh the p1 will check the switch over uh to the sra 6b be part to the backup p and the p4 nexus please for the sms 6te diplomats is it is uh more complicated and for the uh to the uh primary exact pe we deployed uh one policy uh with the primary candidate parts and the backup penetrator pass with both both of the parts are the strict te parts and we recommend use the bfd uh with the forward parts and the rewards parts have the have the same parts in the back direction and we also deploy the be parts to the p3 for the primary egress pe and for the backup pe we deploy the loose te parts and also the rb parts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "next slide please uh for the for the policy to the egress p uh primary b class pe uh when the strict parts failure the p1 will check the switch over to the backup parts uh in the same policy next slide please if both of the other parts fails and the the p1 will check the the switch over of the first priority backup uh that is that means the sr6b parts to the p3 because we use the egress node first strategy here if we use the t first strategy it will switch over uh to the uh p4 policy yeah next slot please and if the primary egress p the p3 fails and we the p1 will switch over to the uh e6t lose parts to the p4 thanks does please minute okay okay i'll be quick uh for the for the loose parts failure uh if the if the failure happened to the to the uh long endpoint node we can use the trfa repair parts next please it will happen to the uh endpoint node we can use the switch over to the be parts and then the desk or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "next last piece any questions and comments yeah we've got people lining up jeffrey jeff we cannot hear you sorry i'm fighting with echo jeffrey has how are you provisioning your bfd return path uh uh we we have uh provide a other draft for the for the parse uh consistency for the spfd in the vfd working group that you have the details is this the bfd directed draft yeah yeah yeah okay that was the answer thank you okay from juniper um i can't remember the slide where you showed the primary path and the backup path to a different egress e i think it was slide 14 but i might be mistaken so my question is uh maybe uh okay i'll assume p e4 is the um not sure here which is the primary in which was the backup my question is what happens if the cepe link on the primary egress uh fails that bfd um is my understanding is the session is towards the pe node egress p note and the egress p node is still alive so you won't be able to fall back to the backup candidate path uh the bfd session wouldn't tell you the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "fault in that case and in in in that sense why is this protection not done at the service level at the bgp level thank you okay thank you are you going to answer it or you prefer to send it to the list because i believe tara cast number of questions derek would you send your questions to the list please dark uh i will i will send my questions to the list thank you so much hello yeah we can hear you okay perfect so no questions only comment uh i think it is a really impressive presentation i'm really happy to hear an operator can share their real issues and considerations from the test and and deployment right it definitely can and help us uh on on how to develop the network in the future and guide us to uh uh drive the work into the right direction so really thank you yep thanks jeffrey yeah jeffrey from juniper i might have missed it but uh what's specific about srv6 here or what's what can not be done with sr mpos what's different uh i don't think we are going to get an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "answer could you please send it to the list i don't see any reactions here okay then we are moving to the next speaker so it's going to be bark braga instead of and just to say a few words uh we have discussions with transport area people on this draft it touches upon routing actually quite a lot and as many other presentations you've seen we are looking to ways where hosts can interact with the network so it's one of those please go ahead thank you jeff um can you hear me yeah excellent so yeah i'm gonna present hpcc plus plus here and this is an enhanced high precision congestion control uh suite work together with rui and and the team here presented on these drafts okay so um let's reiterate what are we trying to address here so we started with a focus on looking at cloud providers environments and there are a couple of things that happen in the recent years that drove our interest starting with the high performance storage and the change in the storage environment recently drove a much higher throughput and lower latency access to the storage and we see order of magnitude of million iops and about 50 to 100 microsecond response time and this is a kind of uh go order of magnitude uh less than what it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "used to be before ssds and energy uh were introduced to the networks uh another angle is a high performance computation or hpc with the rise of distributed deep learning with the move to having a more kind of heavy loaded applications on the network the use of gpus to drove much more bandwidth in traffic towards the network fpgas and asics all these shifts put a lot of pressure in the network because the compute become much more capable and much more demanding in terms of the communication patterns in between these devices as well as lower latency because because the computation is distributed there is a lot of dependencies between the various nodes um and this dwarf latency even further down towards sub 10 microsecond requirements and even below that in addition to that resource or memory disaggregation in the network so their servers kind of architectural changes and how we built the servers or the compute elements basically because we disaggregate all these components used to be in the same same box or chassis if you will now when we dislocate them we present latency from the network and in order to overcome it we need to give services that are even lower latencies than what we already discussed so all of these kind of drove us towards looking into solutions to enable higher bandwidth consistent bandwidths and lower latency as well as consistent latency grad yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:04",
    "text": "a couple questions so uh first um um there have been uh comments uh the draft before the meeting and uh i just wonder if uh offers uh [Music] notice them yes i think we will dress it probably at the end of this deck okay uh another question is um that's something that uh i think that i didn't ask um in my comments uh is it related to what what greg is is it related to what was already presented now or is it more general ah moon okay i'll wait then thank you okay thank you great okay next slides please all right so if we kind of take a deeper look um these were the applications but now when we look on how the network is actually or the whole study is actually serving these applications then what we see is that hyperspeed networks networks chips actually form hyper speed networking what does it mean we talked about the application again but now not only that the application has been changed but also the hosts or the nic if you will has been changed and we see more and more uh demand and installations of hardware awful being in the nick so if you look kind of on the history in the past and especially considering tcp and the like what we have seen is some offloading mostly related to things has to do with hashing and so on a little bit um handling uh you know the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "so on but uh a fundamental change happened um with uh harder offloading uh that has to do with rdma or remote direct memory access that means that a lot of the transport actually is being offloaded into hardware so no need to go into cpu and software anymore in order to handle networking and this cause kind of audio of magnitude jump in latency and bandwidths in the network in order to be able to keep up with these demands this is why we were looking into real-time conjunction control because there is a lot of data and communication running in the network meaning more pressure on the network and it becomes harder and harder for the network to be able to serve these requirements coming from the servers next slide please um so what are the challenges that related to condition control in high-speed networks that we discussed um convergence upon congestion so if condition happens in the network then how fast would the network be able to solve this congestion and and and basically reduce the load in order to be able to prevent the condition and also how fast will it be able to pick up one's congestion result so these two challenges we try to address running multiple applications over converged networks so as you're well aware these cloud environments that we began with and later on thought about other use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:03",
    "text": "they may run multiple applications um and uh the the requirement is to be able to uh not have dependency between them and this is why costs and buffering your scholars resources uh in the network as you're well aware in addition because uh current um conditional algorithms whether using ucl or not um has a lot to do with many parameter tuning it has to do with the fact that the visibility into the network is limited and then some kind of heuristics has to be to be made next slide please here i will uh kind of present um i should say an opportunity that has to do with uh the uh evolving uh telemetry capabilities in the network so when we're looking into uh invent telemetry um or uh and when i say invent elementary and maybe this is at least partly address uh some of greg's questions uh we refer to that as the capability of embedding a telemetry on an in-flight packet as it drives student the network what we see in recent years is that new networking asics that are coming to the market have these type of capabilities and they are already deployed in the in the today's cloud and networks as i mentioned packets can collect elementary on their route and in terms of standardizing these capabilities we see efforts in couple of places um one of them that might be most relevant here in this phone is the itf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "uh iom specification which is being worked on in as part of ippm which standardizes basically the data structures uh to enable uh these capabilities uh there is a work uh under uh p4.org um that's called int and there is a graph suggestion uh uh under the name of ifa that was suggested for ippm that is not progressing as a as a working group after this stage one minute next slide please so can we use this new tool um as a precise feedback for congest control potentially yes and this is what we were looking at based on very precise visibility into the network sender and hosts in general can adjust the rate potentially they can adjust also the way the of the routes that the packet may take in the network uh based on uh this uh feedback next slide please so um there are a couple of formats as i mentioned because of time i won't get into too many details but we are not asking to discuss the format of the packets here just the requirements from the inventory specifications to be able to support data that is needed from the network for this purpose slide please so we address uh all the challenges that we discussed uh fast convergence so we have a good visibility for the senders near zero kills we do not need to rely on q build up anymore and way less parameters to configure because of again this precise feedback that we get from the network and we can take better decisions from congestion and routing perspectives next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "so how do we see what hpc plus plus is and this is related to uh jeff comment at the very beginning the way we see it is this is basically a service it comes to serve the networking entities whether it is transport or wiring engine but based on this data that is being built in the endpoints we can take better decisions and serve the applications better and this is why you know when we came to discuss also with some of the transport teams because it is transport agnostic basically then there is no specific transporter details to and it is also routing a protocol agnostic it's basically a service that can be used by different entities in the network next slide please and uh we will be more than glad to get the uh working group feedback um uh on the details and on how to proceed thank you so as i said there's an ongoing discussion with transport area ads and uh we'll keep you updated what's going on here and we've got uh david black oh lars he has more dots excuse me please let laras go before me hi laura sagar speaking as an individual with no dots so um i think this is certainly interesting for transport and i think the congestion control part of this would certainly need to be standardized there and there are like ways in which we do that i'm sort of the interesting question for me in routing is whether switches and routers would be willing to provide this information it's good to see that there's already some vendors that do so and i think the the the problem for this sort of network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "based congestion control was always that we couldn't get the information we the transport couldn't get the information from the from switch fabric like ecn for example right never really took off because we just didn't get the bits so if this has no change and there's the ability the possibility to get this information from the network that would be great because it opens up all kinds of things like hpcc and others and i think for routing the discussion would be you know is this something that has changed on the routing side where the network would be willing to offer this thank you and that's exactly it we are finally getting to the point in time where nothing requiring can actually communicate back what it does so and again the question where it should leave really stays open and uh ongoing but this work is kind of really important the amount of rdma traffic in large data centers is going up exponentially they absolutely need to keep routing simple so using today's bgp css sharespace routing they need better congestion control to be able to change entropy to reduce transmit rate and this is really work that's going this direction when host can interact with the network and do something useful with it dean it'd be cool dear mogranovich so here's i have a concern that with the speeds that we are approaching and the latency that is you know that we are seeing we are hitting that information by the time it arrives being computes and being propagated back to the source might be already old so we have to if this really wants to work i think we should consider that we have to put in a pole mechanism like a like because today we do all the routing on the push mechanism that we should also do a routing based on the pulling mechanism in order to try to avoid the congestion con to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "to find the solution for congestion control very good comment and please do send your comments to the list and i believe authors would be more than happy to address them and we have to move to the next presentation thank you thanks barack good trying to use the new tool just a little bit getting a bit used to um this is a a draft that comes out of research we've done on dlts and provider networks we try to better understand what dlts as a technology is doing to networks and we thought sharing the insights here with the routing working group may be quite useful because we're seeking input as well um i'm trying to see how okay now it finally comes sorry took a bit so the war games to understand how um what's the impact of dlts if you run dlts it doesn't question why we're using dlts we're taking any dlt application there is but what happens to your network when you have dlts running on top and and the footnote here is quite important we started our insights they were all experimental we started them based on proof of work based dlts ethereum at the beginning and we're still that's one of the pieces that we're looking at other dlts as well we want to engage and we took this work first and we took it actually into the iic there's an ic white paper on the the industrial iot consortium you can read the white paper link is in the is in the draft and we wanted to turn this into a living document we want to get more insights in particular from from folks who understand routing um quite well so you want to want to engage with the community and and both want to extend on the impacts as well as on the opportunities to maybe mitigate some of the impacts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "so we have a structure you can see here where we we talk about dlt concepts so that's a little bit to understand how dlts work i'm not going to go into this a bit about the communication in a dlt so what does the dlt really do in terms of communication to your network um some of the challenges we're seeing as well as the experimental insights that we currently have as well as some of the opportunities for network innovations that we also see moving along that may may help us there so what's the typical communication in a dlt for those of you who who are maybe not that familiar with the dlt really does the dlc is a form for a distributed consensus consensus system and we have a client that commits a transaction request to the dlt a miner or a peer generally we call them peer largely in the draft more commonly known are miners for instance for proof of work dlts commit a found block to the dlt as a piece of the system of the ledger and any client or another miner may read the blockchain from the dlt that's kind of like the typical communication pattern or the interactions you see in a dlt in all of this it's important that these operations are inherently multi-point and the nature of that multi-point is something we in particular investigate with quite some interest because that's one of the biggest issues in the dlt we've seen the communication pencil how do you translate this um the the key aspect that's being used in the um in the dlts is the so-called pool of peers to talk to so the appears you're communicating the um request the dlt information to and this is a very very simple um flowchart um i see there's something going wrong in the flowchart in one of the return paths apologies for that you find another picture in the draft so it works off a list of dlt pieces which is being distributed through the network and these dlt peers are usually described as ip addresses ports and and with the ports the protocols you you you're maintaining it does no discovery so it builds a list of peers that it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "understands it could communicate with and then it picks randomly from those peers a number of notes to communicate with transport security is trying to establish a capability exchange that's um pertaining to particular protocol aspects security aspects you may need to support but also hyper capabilities do you have a gpu for instance if you do a proof of work dlts on the left hand side you see the incoming peers you may also be contacted by an incoming peer who does the same thing on their side so there's a lot of chatty communication happening and in the end a successful peer is being added to the so-called pool of dlt peers by configuration to give you an idea in ethereum these are by default 50 peers you're communicating with these 50 peers keep changing over time so if you think 50 is a relatively small number when you run the numbers and trying to understand how much in a certain amount of time you're actually talking to you end up at thousands because the pool of dltps keeps being randomized over time and there's they all go through this mechanism of node discovery you do a type of tls type of transport security capability exchange and up to the pool you're being evacuated from the pool after some time etc etc etc and that's kind of one of the biggest things that's happening in the dltps now my buttons disappeared okay there you are while you're doing there's a question whether the pool is bounded um it's configuration it's all configuration 50 it is in the beginning by default configuration you can set this larger but um we run it in the default configuration for ethereum thanks so the problem is the the one thing is you you require information to reach other peers um in dlts like ethereum you have bootstrap notes so you sign up to the dlt you give up your ip address the bootstrap note seat the actual node discovery it maintains the ip addresses of all the miners plus the port information so you're also indicating whether you have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "support for udp tcp the new dlt members as you saw in the previous slide they need to discover and maintain these addresses all the time upon joining and they are being refreshed as i mentioned several thousands also clients don't know anything about the capabilities so i go through this whole thing about a contact a potential miner i have an ip address i go to the ip address i wait for the connection and you notice the waiting for the connect is very bad if the ip address isn't actually reachable because you have a timeout so you're just waiting 30 seconds for nothing you inquire the capabilities and any disconnect if they are not matching and again if you run this actually in an experimental setup you'll notice there are a lot of disconnects just simply because folks are not meant to talk to each other right a lot of these thousands of connections are actually unsuccessful connections so miners may never reply finally if you have the pool then obviously you end up mapping the sending of transactions onto unicast communication right so that negatively impacts efficiency because you do unicast replications like in in many overlays and it also impacts the completion time because you have to keep doing this as a replication rather than a multicast the the last problem that we outlined is that you need to expose the ip address that's never a very very good idea in particular if you if you look at the idea behind the dlt and that is communication between possibly inherently untrusted parties well hang on a second why am i giving my ip address to these people right i mean i'm not trusting them even on the ledger information but i'm trusting them with my ip information so you set an ip address it leads to privacy issues security issues um it's difficult to handle ip atlas changes because they have to propagate from the bootstraps into the miners if you change your ip address you may still have and this is also happening quite a bit in the discovery process the uh you're actually contacting ip addresses they're all they're already outdated and you notice this by waiting 30 seconds right nothing's happening supporting mobility is another issue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "obviously so there's always a slight lag in this one the experimental insights there at the moment taken from the irc white paper we're also already working on newer ones that we will put in another update there they're constantly coming in with running the experiments as they the days go by the different types of their dlts as you can imagine from the from the pool before from the chart there's so a fairly large number that such is simply not reachable there the ip address is in the bootstrap node good luck you try to reach them the ping never comes back they may just signal we call them just signaling because you're going through the capability exchange and nothing is really happening you have mismatching capabilities but you also may end up in the end talking to an actual node after capability exchange but they're sending you useless data uses data the data you start with at the very beginning is the blockchain you want to synchronize on the latest blockchain but you may never end up with actually getting any useful data from them last but not least you actually have miners you finally talk to usefully so that's the last type we identified and only 16 of the nodes are actually useful the rest is rubbish and depending on what stage you fail it is big robby small rubbish that it depends right 42 percent of the traffic is wasted we found this out so far and we're refining the data at the moment to split where the waste actually does happen um i said we have the additional kpis that we will put into an update after 113. so what are network innovations we're outlining this in section seven and section eight and we're just starting there and we're also reaching out in some of the research space and eight finn is going to talk about one of these things two presentations after this one so references to ongoing traffic we have there there's some opportunities that we're looking into in multicast there's a whole discussion around why is it you can't really quite use multicast if you look at the random nature of these pools you might guess why that's the reason it's extremely dynamic multicast"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "we also link in the standardization efforts in the ieee dlt work that's ideal to interrupt work that's been done in a couple of site meetings the semantic routing that adrian's going to talk about later dynrg and we want more input there so what are we we're having a going to the last not quite the last on the last slide you see a side meeting that's happening tomorrow where we actually do talk a bit more about this so what's next we want to extend our work more to understand more about other dlts as well we've already received input from folks instead of hanging a second there are other dlts i know apart from ethereum we know that but we would like to get insight from people who do work with them other proof of work systems proof of stake which works significantly different in the impact on the overlay management insights into ethereum as well we're doing this already as i said as we speak other network innovations the use of ip multicast list that's something dino works on that we're going to talk also about tomorrow and the impact of those network innovations if you assume doesn't we're going to take innovations what would be the impact how would you mitigate the impact we observed over traditional ip and that's something we also work on most importantly we're looking for collaborators so this is meant to be a living draft so hopefully we get other people to join you're eating into your next presentation already significantly yeah yes so we need the why someone the reason doing this as as i mentioned stay over there is to better understand the impact of dlt so folks who have had insights into dlts place contact us we're very interested to incorporate that in any updates any possible mitigation if you worked on epic innovations where you mitigated some impacts we observed very good any contributors please drop us an email there's also there's a bit of advertisement there for a site meeting tomorrow that's going to happen on dlt and networking it will have the spins of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "impact of dlts and networks and the other way around we're going to talk our dino is going to talk about lisp and what they've done we're going to talk about a bit more detail of what i described today already some of the new insights so if that fits for anybody 6 000 pm local time please join that's just the site meeting by the way it's not going to be official oriented or whatever that's just people coming together and talking about this topic so if you're interested in please join us there's a question from nicola smiley nicola go ahead hi this is nicola um one question have you looked at the security implication i'm thinking for example about routing security i think there was some research on uh you know uh using for example uh hijackings for stealing bitcoin or i'm also thinking about dos for example for a leader based uh you know bfts um is it is it something that you have been looking at or just uh not yet or so so our current focus has been largely in quantitative performance but the security part in recent discussions so it's not in the draft at the moment but certainly something if you could send me for instance the research that would be great and as i mentioned if i'm not trusting the dlt but i'm throwing my ip address out so it's it's quite clear that there are a lot of interesting privacy and security implications you know on that and i'd really like to hear more about that all right i'll see you at the meeting then yeah thank you thanks and next presentation yours as well do i need to request that again uh engine you're loading slides yeah it's coming up good thanks you've got five minutes oh i met so we gotcha or we can move it for you if you want that one didn't show up before getting used to the remote tool is a bit buggy in places so this is a draft um goes away from from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "dlts but even though we are also seeking obviously input by the wider community this draft talks about is purely observational we look at how the internet has evolved from what we usually in particular very often simplistically teach people on what the intent is really doing and that's reachability and it's it's title continuing the internet to evolve the internet riding beyond mere reachability it's intended to seat discussions and how we can continue with the observed evolution of the internal routing system and i said that the draft is positioned as being purely observational we're not proposing any solutions we're just saying that's what's going on how do we want to continue doing this we want to engage with the community on to identify on possible next steps so that this routing evolution that we've been observing for the many many years actually continues structure of the draft there as well so we i'm going through two three and four uh section in in in these slides uh but there's also obviously more discussion on the on the issues which which i ask you to look through the slides in more detail so we start with the original purpose so this is kind of what we usually tell people of how the internet works all right um so originally it's designed to enable forwarding iep packets to a destination address that's good we have a locator semantic for ip addresses that's fundamental for doing this usually assigned the context for network topology so that we can get some sort of management of this address space we have distributed decision making and intermediary routers which sometimes also leads to issues uh uh uh and and writing problems in particular which some of the extensions are are particularly interesting key when looking at this is what's the method for forwarding for selecting the path and what's the criteria for doing so right traffic engineering may help you to avoid some of the routing problems so this is how the routing system really started but okay but there are many many extensions to this reachability part and i said the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "draft has gone through an exercise of listing those and and going through in the end 58 references that we found so far we by no means claim to be exhaustive but we just wanted to start somewhere 0. so you observe and survey those extensions and we list them based on what's the purpose for the extension what's the approach what's the underlying technical approach and you can just you know we can debate some of those taglines that we used and what are the examples what are the known solutions so we want to have the evidence part right and ultimately we hope that this may lead to some sort of taxonomy that looks at the capabilities of a routing system and the approaches for achieving those routing systems that's kind of what we're after with this section at the moment this is on the right-hand side it's just a snippet obviously of the entire table because the table has 12 purposes which is the left most column 26 approaches in 58 examples and i said not claiming to be exhaustive here so the key observation though that we're doing with that is is that the internet internet writing has been evolving so whatever we are saying about internet routing maybe you know all it does is reachability not really quite there's been a lot of stuff going on obviously that has been tweaking and changing things here and there in order to do certain purposes as we defined it using certain approaches that's the the observational part that we have in this draft but if you do those we also discuss in section four what are the possible issues when you take these approaches and start playing around with the routing system in order to achieve the purpose that you have in mind right that goes beyond pure reachability yeah and we outlined a number of them that are discussed in more detail in the draft limiting routing capability semantics so you fit the new purposes into the limitations of the old realizations there are a couple of examples that are given there for instance on content naming great idea to extend the purpose of the routing but unfortunately if you stick it into the limitations of an ip address you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "limiting the actual new purpose itself right that's one of the examples we give complexity and efficiency because one minute yes or you have um repetitive encapsulation you have security fragility and operability number of issues that are being listed so we ask the routing working group in the draft at section five is to recognize that the evolution of the internet routing system has to take a wider architectural approach and not just start sticking extension here and there knock yourself out with the packet whatever you want to do there's a lot of research and development routing systems ongoing research being published developments in companies and these works must be brought into the process of the itf and we believe it must be brought to the itf before we start sticking it into a new specification because that's relatively late and we believe looking at the routing working group charter that is that the routing work group should play a role in all of this because as it says and we are quoting the the charter there the routing area working group is chartered to provide a venue to discuss and that's kind of like what we are looking for to discuss evaluate and support new proposals so we're establishing five uh three sorry five three actions in the in the traffic that we're suggesting either to establish suitable offers with efforts within routing working group or to support the establishment of suitable efforts as a standalone working group which could be for instance called the future of internet routing that's just the suggestion or support the establishment of suitable efforts within the irtf where these efforts directly lays back with the routing working group through regular updates in its meeting so what's going on at the moment there right so these are the suggestions we are making in the draft and what we ask for is commons both on the recognition and the uh the suggested actions either here on the list we also have this the the manifesto that i linked in here which luigi uh published last year with other courses and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "important what we want to say is we are not asking to risk this is something that in exchange was was put to us we're not asking to risk the investment of the internet um just to make architecture a process on the contrary we want to ensure that we have a continued evolution without the issues that we observe in the actual draft so when i ask you to throw this all away and open the discussion for the pure research purpose but actually really ensure that we can continue doing routing evolution sustainably and i would really need your stuff now thank you thank you uh while agent is loading andrea draft a couple of comments so there is no concept of subgroup within group in atf rtf probably two knowledge had a research group focused on evolution of internet so bringing it to rtf if you are doing research probably the right thing to do obviously you can also ask for working group in itf but this far i don't think there's enough meat on the bonds to really do this so if there are significant interest we can definitely have an interim meeting focused on what you're trying to do so please send an email to the list and see whether you can gather enough interest to continue this work here practically it feels like irtf probably would be the good place to continue this effort okay thank you thank you thanks uh adrian yes i'm requested slide and engine slide share requested but nothing happening uh robin could you please send your question to the list sorry we are really running out of time okay oh cunning they're not in order right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "okay um i will squeeze this into the last 11 minutes uh no problem and spend most of the time reading the the long title on this slide um so this is about things that we think that researchers should look at when they're doing work um and proposing new approaches for internet routing and we've come up with some challenges which are in the the draft noted at the bottom of this slide the main things uh we're looking at are things that are not always looked at properly when new routing proposals are made things like stability and scalability security privacy manageability in particular and interactions with other parts of the network um so that work breaks down into examining the fragilities in the current system uh in particular what what breakages do we often see and the architectural considerations um whether this is evolution or revolution and then questions that we think that research and development should be spending more time on working out what the deployment architecture is what assumptions of traffic patterns are are influencing the way the design is done what is the techno-economic motivation in other words why are you actually doing this work is it just because it's fun or is there some driving force and then beyond that uh the research principles that are quite often neglected are looking at realistic networks and realistic traffic flows rather than the sort of powerpoint linear network that we often see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "used to prove new approaches and the ability to independently reproduce the research so none of this is uh attempting to criticize uh we're just trying to be a little bit more helpful uh so where this all started was uh us looking at semantic routing and we've we've heard a couple of um presentations today talk about semantic routing and semantic addressing and this from our perspective is layer 3 hot by hop rooting and forwarding so not overlays um not traffic engineering uh it's extending the historic routing algorithms that have been used to generate forwarding instructions um where we've had distributed but identical algorithms or central planning um and based on information known about or gathered from the network so originally that was all just reachability destination address and as uh dirk has just said we're moving beyond that um semantic routing then is looking at additional information that is placed in the packet somehow whether that's in additional fields or overloading existing fields or partitioning the address space and it's describing the treatment that the package should receive within the network um so the routine decides what the next hop is for each piece of information and the forwarding acts on those instructions uh looking at the information in packets so to some extent all routing and forwarding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "so far has been semantic routing and forwarding but we're looking at extending that so you can get a sort of bigger overview or an introduction in the draft listed there very very quickly uh this figure just shows that architecturally it looks like it's no big deal we're sort of adding the red words semantic into an architecture but i think this is an overly simplistic representation and uh what needs to happen is a better look at the architectural implications uh and the consequences for the routing system and maybe a step back and say what are we trying to build and and why and how does this all fit together uh so as background as we worked on semantic routing we did a survey uh and we found that there were an extraordinarily large number of pieces of work that were in this space and many of them had petered out some of them had failed some of them had limited niche applicability and we started to think about the common themes in researching and testing and developing these ideas and the overlaps between other systems in particular sdn and their applicabilities in particular environments and this led us to formulate uh our challenges and research questions um so why talk to you even about this well we think the challenges apply more widely to all routine research although we started with semantic routing uh we're not trying to tell this uh working group what you already know and it's probable that they're one or two people here who have some experience"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "in routing what we want to do is firm up this work with opinions from the real world so what have we identified that's not really a problem uh what have we missed and what have we left out so i have three slides here which are sort of extracted from the draft and i'm going to skip them because you can read the draft and we're running out of time they basically categorize the challenges and the things that people should think about as they propose new ideas as they do new routing work as you'll see the last one there it does anything need to be standardized and that comes back to the discussion in the satellite work that was raised before so what are we going to do with this work um as authors we're not completely sure um we don't know where to discuss it uh uh we do have a place for discussing semantic routing that's uh on a disk um mailing list and maybe the chairs here would be happy for us to talk about it a bit more in rtgwg we do want to develop the draft and we're not sure whether to turn it into a general document or restrict it to the semantic routing work obviously we're going to polish and extend and take feedback from you guys and that sort of takes me to this slide which is is is what we're doing useful or a waste of time are there things we have uh that are wrong uh what else should we include and where should we discuss it there you go chairs you have two and a half minutes uh let's take up a question and uh i'll try to comment sir thank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "you about two minutes for people please be quick okay uh some discussion in korea about it so could you please brief us the process here um i what i can say is we we talked to the irtf chair and he said um try talking about this in the coin rg um we did and uh the coin rg chairs uh told us that routing is not really in scope for uh coin rg so um we're happy to to have a home but we don't have one at the moment robin okay thank you okay uh in my question is that what's uh means the internet routine so i mean that's the your new thesis today talk about the ceramic routine but uh if we use used for the truly the internet so i think that maybe that's the research work that take a long time i used to use for the limited domain such as satellite network that's maybe engineering work am i for my suggestion is better to distinguish the different scenario for this for this internet routine usual semantic uh address routine that will be helpful to distinguish where to have this work yeah okay that's useful thank you okay jeffrey jeff i adrian two quick comments uh comment one i think this is useful work and i would like to see it carried forward regardless of what group it ends up in comment number two is that uh you have a very good list and i'd like to suggest that you add to it incremental maintenance of the mechanism that's the thing that you usually enjoy nice nice thank you yes that's it thank you derek"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "tarksad uh with juniper thanks adrian for the great presentation haven't read the draft i admit i'll promise to read it it's not a question it's a comment i see resemblance in semantic routing what you're proposing on semantic routing and some work we myself and our co-authors are driving in teas working group where we carry something in the packet that influences the packet forwarding uh or the routing decision um on the on on on hops along the path um i i think this uh work is useful and just wanted to make that comment thanks yeah thank you tarek and i should add that to the uh survey uh and you know you'll notice that apn um talked about earlier also influences the the path and i think that um a question that needs to be looked at more generally is whether there should be uh an attempt to do a generic uh approach uh rather than um picking environment specific or solution not solution use case specific um approaches and ways of doing this maybe we can come acro come away with some generic encoding that's um a little more capable of being used in many different scenarios i think that might help the implement implementers if we can do it in a way that isn't uh too costly colin and we cut the here granting please take it to the list colin go ahead hi can you hear me yeah yes okay thank you um so i just wanted to to follow up on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:01",
    "text": "the comments about coinage about how this has been um handled in the irtf um i think that the feedback i gave to adrian previously was not to take the work to coinage it was the parts of the work overlap with the scope of coinage and i agree that coin rg is not a routing group um but what coin rg is looking at is how the network is becoming more programmable and some of the implications of in-network computation and programmable data planes and so on and that i think overlaps with some of the um the discussions um you know in teas group uh some of the discussions about you know as adrian said earlier about what happens when um the routing has chosen a path and how does the the data plane handle the forwarding of that path um so i i do think there is uh at least some overlap with the scope of coin rg although that's clearly not everything here um i would probably argue that um parts of this work also overlap with the ic energy and perhaps some of the topics that were mentioned in the previous talk or so overlap in that space because that group's considering um what happens when the um you know the routing identifies content uh and the forwarding identifies contents rather than ip addresses um but but yes i i certainly agree that most of this uh does not seem in scope for the i i rtf it seems much closer to engineering although the feedback i've given in the past is that parts of it fall within the scope of some of the the irtf groups adrian would you want to respond or just take no information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:01",
    "text": "i i have nothing to add to that so the work seems to be really interesting and it's common theme for half presentations here so something is going on and personally i would really like to make something of this work whether we call semantic routing or policy-based routing on steroids right the willingness to extend route lookups beyond destination ap address is definitely present so we'll discuss with our id potentially we could have interim meeting focused on the team and we'll come back please do stay active on the list and solicit feedback and try to progress it lovely thank you thank you so much and thanks everyone and hope to see you in philadelphia and hope to see much many more people in the room thanks you"
  }
]
