[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:04",
    "text": "well actually did lose the order easier is it gonna read his first his vehicle and then John and then is W [Music] [Laughter] [Music] alright should begin alright good afternoon everyone this is the DC working group I will remind people about the note well you\u0027ve seen it many times probably and don\u0027t need to read it hopefully you know it the blue sheets are going around we do need some jabber ethernet note-takers so if anybody is willing to assist in doing that that would be awesome you know put some notes out on ether pad and we\u0027ll we\u0027ll use those as two to produce the minutes anybody willing to do that anybody willing to do jabber scribing so I can cope with both but I would be distracted yeah alright thanks and just so everybody knows I\u0027m Bernie volts one of the co-chairs and and I\u0027m telling about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "sceeto and do not have a working group secretary but if anybody is interested let us know okay the agenda is as follows we\u0027ll take a few minutes to do some administration at minister via agenda bashing things like that then we\u0027ll have john grochowski present on some DC PV deployment stuff a Comcast we have a discussion on secure dhcpv6 as there were some issues raised recently on that document and some concerns and so the question is what do we do about it do we need to make some significant changes do we drop the work or whatever and then we have two presentations on some individual submissions on some new options for dhcpv6 and this in some cases they should be before all as well just a quick update on the working group document status there were two RCS published the failover protocol for v6 and the prefix length hint issues one RC is in the editor queue and we have six working group drafts that are currently active details can be found for those on the data tracker so quick update on 33 15 biz we did have a working group last call last summer which generated about 270 issues we did publish a new version in March of 2017 which addressed most but not all of the issues and then we published one in May which address the remaining issues and and we initiated another working group last call on that document and received reviews with about 30 mostly minor issues there\u0027s a few that were a little bit more significant but most of them were fairly minor edits to the document we did publish a no 9 which addressed all of those issues and Roth sent an email out because he\u0027s the consensus scholar on the document that you know he believes the working group has reached consensus on the document there will likely be a - 10 before we do send it on one made dependent will depend on what happens with a secure DHCP v6 work because currently the 3315 biz does reference that and if we determine we\u0027re not going to make much progress on that document maybe it\u0027s not appropriate to reference it another is that I had meant to update Appendix A to include some clarification regarding the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:04",
    "text": "lifetimes that was an issue raised by Jin May that we addressed in the onine document but I forgot to mention it in the updates the changes that we did and hopefully we\u0027ll get a few reviewers to review the changes we made for the O nine and confirm that they\u0027re okay or provide us a few additional edits that we will make so please do review the O 9 and again the goal is to publish the - 10 in early August and send that on to Suresh our ad and the iesg eventually and we\u0027d like to thank Ralf for being the document shepherd and doing the working group consensus determination work any questions about any event and I didn\u0027t really stop to ask if there was any issues with the agenda that we wanted to rearrange things but I assume somebody would have stopped if they had would have stopped me if they had some concerns okay so John you\u0027re up and you know this to stay in the pink box and all that fun stuff okay so John rejewski so after the last I during the last ITF I saw a hummock in the hall I was telling them about some of the things have you been up to and I think they thought will be valuable if I told you guys a little bit about the current state of these PP six at Comcast X library yeah that\u0027s a little this slides didn\u0027t line up when I converted them because I only did them like 45 minutes ago so yeah as Ralphie knows Bernie as well you know over a decade ago three of us and probably a handful of other people it\u0027s been a lot of time specifying how v6 was intended to operate within all the cables technologies DOCSIS ear outer pad cable etc DSP has been a critical part of stockist networks since the beginning of its time that that didn\u0027t change with before and I think you know as you know we don\u0027t have we may not have some love for DTP DCP in the room right but I think the the byproduct of its availability is unquestionable right it\u0027s it\u0027s basically enabled companies like Comcast to take ipv6 connectivity to tens of millions of customers right so that\u0027s yeah that\u0027s material so we did that work in 2005 spend a lot of time over past 10 12 years writing things like these P servers C MTS\u0027s network etc and next slide and we\u0027ll talk a little bit about where that stands today so today in our network 99% of about 44 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:07",
    "text": "million cable modems used HP v6 and they are v6 only 90 percent in growing of our ear adders our dual stack provisions so they both get an i na and an IP D and 99% of and that\u0027s probably about 20 million 21 million and for set-top boxes which is a video our video platform 99% rp6 only no before and that\u0027s probably north of you know 1616 some million right next slide maybe the cable modems use embedded their their own kind of embedded homegrown DC v6 clients so like you know you\u0027ll get these from things like you know Broadcom or Intel some of them you use open-source implement v6 client that we used for our set-top boxes or set-top boxes if I can go back you know need to move the slides but I\u0027ll point back to that they both get in I na and I PD so I set that walk is more like a video gateway right so it\u0027s a host and a router so we treated a lot like a near our right and our set that box happens to use the dibbler implementation probably you know slightly you know aged version which you know I\u0027m sure I\u0027ll get some criticisms for here momentarily but we happen to know somebody in the room that has knows something about diddler I think next slide please huh yeah yeah yeah so some observations it has been extremely stable probably you know honestly that this wasn\u0027t an arbitrary decision we took a look at a lot of the other implementations and landed on this one because of its stability and ease of use I came with a lot of things that worked just out of the box one of the things that you know we\u0027re working on right now is shrinking the binary size so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a rather large binary size unfortunately that I\u0027m getting yelled at at work to kind of help rectify maybe I can get some advice perhaps at some point but it was actually it actually was actually quite easy for us to kind of work up the configurations to kind of make these things very you know DOCSIS ish or cable like so there are options that must be transmitted as part of the DCP six transaction that allow for us to provision these devices one of the things that we did notice and we try to you know we I think we tried and refrain from hacking diddler is when when dibbler does a proper shutdown it sends a release that was actually causing some some issues for us on the provisioning side of things so one of the things we talked about was modifying the kind of the the the implementation control script is to simply kill mine the process which would prevent the release from being sent but that was um we don\u0027t do that because it was it was not friendly so one of the things that we\u0027re looking at doing so I\u0027ll kind of pause there to see if there\u0027s anybody has any questions or comments we\u0027ll talk a little bit about futures and then I\u0027ll get out of your hair but I just want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:08",
    "text": "give it a minute to see if you guys had anything questions or the working group had any other comments or questions so one of the things we\u0027re looking at now with DSP p6 is really trying to optimize we have I mean if you think about the math that I just told you right yeah there\u0027s probably we\u0027re probably approaching a hundred million bindings in our DSP platform and you know this this server platform there happens to be somebody yeah both multiple people in the room here who know about that so what we\u0027re so now every day is a first at Comcast and and what I mean by that is every day is a first new record right of number of v6 devices on our network right this uh yeah we reached his first first last last June and then every day from this point four is basically brand new another another kind of new day so what we\u0027re finding is is that with the increase in these number of devices and the number of transactions right because every DC client it performs reliefs release at some interval sorry renew at some interval many of devices actually do it every day right so where we are now is we\u0027re looking to really you know would that with the growth that v6 has really it really enabled us to pursue it\u0027s unencumbered us from that point of view right we\u0027ve been able to add many more devices because of u6 as a result the scale is is now almost doubled over the past you know ten years so now we\u0027re we\u0027re looking at opportunities to kind of really optimize these be these p v6 and one of those optimizations is perhaps going down the path of stateless TTP six haven\u0027t haven\u0027t done anything more than just some kind of some unit testing and frankly there\u0027s some people back back at the office that deserve all the credit not me we just we just offered the idea up and then so folks who are you know who I trusted quite a bit at work went off and did a lot of that work but those are some of things that we\u0027re looking at some of the other things that we talked about as part of the unique prefix per host is looking at doing previous delegation over Wi-Fi unfortunately that does not involve either diddler or our use of CR today the DCP server is embedded within the within the the wireless aggregation device but it still should be of interest to you guys as well right so with that I think that\u0027s my last slide anything that you want me to touch on before like we take questions or comments so right now with the the client the nibla client you\u0027re doing both the address assignment and prefix delegation the relax yep cool yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s yeah I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s a nice implication thank you yes oh so you have to keep me attend this project and to give me an alternative to replace it with okay you know I get from dibbler I keep getting sorry buddy support for ipv6 prefix Loa could get delegation not enabled I think that one\u0027s not his fault I think it\u0027s yours where on your home readers that one yes yeah that\u0027s a good one though that\u0027s I appreciate bringing up that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:08",
    "text": "point we we had some bugs to fix we are in the process of implementing sub prefix delegation I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s really ever been a topic that you guys really wanted to needed to a warrant to get in cuttin and you know involved with it was a little bit of a knife fight in kind of the combination of v6 ops and in particular home net but it\u0027s it\u0027s gonna happen I do have a large population of gateways today that do this we just haven\u0027t gotten around to releasing the getting it across the entire population of devices so in Tim winners UNH I wall so in that case you\u0027re you have some algorithm for how you guys are gonna carve up the P sub P DS yes okay are you gonna document that there he is I think we write it down in some either a internet draft here or a cable apps document anyone get somewhere I have to take it up but we we talked about it there was like you can do a Glee remember this you know deep and wide you know it\u0027s either a bunch of it\u0027s either a bunch of like so like at that point just full disclosure we would in the situation like that the home router would get a 56 absolutely right and then we would either do like 58 or 60s oh yeah honestly this days of the game we have enough experience with it to know that this whole idea that people are gonna want like 254 64 is in their house we don\u0027t know we don\u0027t say that yeah so so we think something on the higher end yeah maybe 58 or 60 should be sufficient but saying we know we still see issues where gateways will take their delegated prefix that\u0027s shorter than yeah 64 and I\u0027m not putting the PIO it still blows my mind I mean yeah it happens it\u0027s bad it\u0027s we get them all the time um the other question was you do any stateless or is all your stuff stateful you always use DHCP and all these deployments the staple version you\u0027re never giving out options in the home yeah in the home there should be stateless D to be b6 okay in the access network always stay always I mean yeah yeah I mean that\u0027s the way that\u0027s the way DSP was born and cables and that\u0027s you know it\u0027s the shortest distance between two points there was for us to just kind of keep going the same thing yep any other questions comments no cool thank you thank you dude do you have stats on how many hosts use their RDS ue6 stateful assigned address I mean you do support stateful internally in the home network where you don\u0027t not I don\u0027t want to say University raised because we have a mix of implementations slack is everywhere are you this test is everywhere right we have some gateways that do anything that does state lists the state full but there are some gateways that don\u0027t do have D that don\u0027t have d TP service at all right if memory serves correctly and I think you\u0027re asking me which ones which which what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:10",
    "text": "the yeah you asked me like how many leases are being known in the the point that I realized recently is that depending on the size of the pool that these things have they can end up being like privacy issues because they don\u0027t change if they\u0027re like if you have a host that prefers DHT v6 assigned address I don\u0027t know what typical has - then it becomes very important how big the size of the pool that the Gateway has and how often it changes the event like the answer that I\u0027m about to offer you that so basically what one of the things I know that we did is we went from the last so 0 0 0 2 FF FF is the pool right so 65,000 yeah yeah so I\u0027m not I\u0027m not a huge fan so I rather almost just turn it off right that\u0027s kind of dangerous yeah I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s not good for privacy because it\u0027s likes trivial to scan that number of addresses yeah but what John this is Bernie what what devices are you talking about here is this anyway the home games are you talking about like if I\u0027m sitting at Wi-Fi at home right so soon before I have a NAT so no but it depends on what the gateway vendor does because you don\u0027t usually supply them with a built that off of a document that I wrote eight years ago oh okay yeah I mean it was just just active predates 62 or whatever it was and other crap like that because you could make it from my book one to do here so we had to go we had a business we have to like chop chop move along right so so we kind of just moved on without it\u0027s also the it\u0027s also the quest it\u0027s also the case that its rotations important too even if you did rotate it all right you know yeah now you know it\u0027s not with these keywords dude right that gateway will continue to renew that address for as long as the upper 64 will change that the lower support could change but my guess is most clients to put their old address in it\u0027ll be a hint to the server and then it\u0027ll it\u0027ll help to see whatever there\u0027s new allocation is so so then so then we need to make sure that implementations are preferring other addresses yeah I mean I think yeah yeah that\u0027s something that you mentioned in passing here this one no but we do is it\u0027s privacy problem right yeah they prefer these three six assign address yeah it has to do with a default address selection so they do algorithms it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of out of the box you don\u0027t you don\u0027t quite know what you\u0027re gonna get it does vary a little bit but yeah it depends on the address scheme most of some of them will choose privacy privacy address over the 41 ninety-one address but if they\u0027re not doing that then it\u0027s a crapshoot I\u0027ve actually seen deeds be be preferred and the I don\u0027t know I can\u0027t offer you a number right but but my memory serves my memory tells me like it\u0027s preferred the vast majority of time yeah cuz it\u0027s a rush and compared to before right that\u0027s that\u0027s the thing I\u0027m getting at here and before you have the fad right and so your address is nota mised but in you know but nv6 somebody can just like track you using the last few but understood i i\u0027d like to have that conversation with you lorenzo and if you\u0027re looking to have some collaboration era i\u0027m open to that i like the idea of kind of specifying the kind of the pitfalls of having a very narrow base for address allocations on the flip side i have concerns right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:12",
    "text": "so like one of the things we\u0027re noticed and it\u0027s not that different with with with slack privacy i want to make sure that we don\u0027t explode the impact on the neighbor tables right like this is this is a serious concern that I have no I\u0027ve seen this blow up so my gateways already right ralphe ralphe drums still living the dream amen the question was about temporary versus permanent addresses do you have any idea whether clients ask for temporary permanent what they I mean that was that was our intention when we originally came up with that division but I have no idea whether whether any clients actually make that distinction and use use them as they were intended that is the permanent address for incoming incoming and temporaries for outgoing I\u0027ve even lost that in the shuffle do not say like so when I go barreling down the path of trying to you know get you know v6 down or something oh yeah I go right to you know na and no no snow temporaries I mean I it doesn\u0027t ring a bell I was so as as as a result I\u0027ll say I don\u0027t think there is heavy requesting end or allocation of addresses in that regard okay anyone else super thanks guys all right thank you John [Music] [Music] all right here we go okay okay so this transition is about help I\u0027m touring across key so I\u0027d like to present to what\u0027s been happening with the secure DCP recently I am NOT echo out or I just tried to move this work forward and been mostly unsuccessful with this so epic of history so this draft or its predecessors we\u0027re around for quite a long time we went through last call in March there were several reviews in general they were favorable they said that the draft has improved in terms of clarity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:12",
    "text": "and completeness in quality was good however the major issue rised was that there are no existing implementations so and this draft is quite complex so people are uncomfortable with moving this draft forward and then after a while a primary author recently she disappeared and stopped responding for males for for couple months fortunately she got back like two days ago but she missed a lot in the process so we hope that the issue could be addressed with having a canal in Prague however and shortly after the hackathon was announced we discovered that there\u0027s a problem that I got me used to to sign the packet as has the problem with the limitation so it\u0027s it was too small for for some of the these three packets so and after that long discussion and shoot and people stepped back and try to ask the basic question so what are the problems we are trying to solve and these are some of the ideas that were mentioned so as you can see this is you know a very broad spectrum of things that people could consider in in general when you think about security and DHCP so lots of issues lots of technologies trying to solve different problems so we thought that ok so this is not exactly going you know towards completion so we stepped back and talked about what what are the the problems that we\u0027re trying to solve so we had a meeting Constantine so all the outers and people who are involved that commented they were invited only only four people showed up we went through different use cases and suddenly the conclusion was that it\u0027s probably dead it means current form and after that we also had a chance to talk with Kathleen who is a security ID and she suggested that we could consider different options one of them would be to publish this as experimental another one would be to trim it down to cover just the opportunistic encryption as a way to mitigating pervasive monitoring attack so during the discussion we tried to define what are the use cases that this just could address so the first one is the corporate network so you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:12",
    "text": "devices that are trying to connect to the today in corporate network and but then exactly no people jumping up and down waiting for this waiting to develop the solutions and deploy it in in corporate networks and we strongly believe that the reason is that you can you can protect the first hope with 802 and dot 1x when we\u0027re talking about communication between the client and the relay and between the relay and the server can be protected with IPSec there are also other technologies that can help with this environment for example the HP v6 shield so another use case that was frequently mentioned is the coffee shop so you have your your device you come to a coffee shop you don\u0027t exactly know them but you would like to use the internet so the tofu trust of unfused use model it was mentioned suggest agent but when you at first glance it it sounds good but if you take a closer look it really doesn\u0027t hurt that much so it helps a bit with pervasive monitoring in the sense that that you could encrypt the traffic but actually you don\u0027t know who you are connecting to so whether you are connecting to the right server or maybe rope server and also the argument that ok so it helps with providing monitoring but if the if the server is participating in the monitoring you are out of luck anyway so people came up with some ideas that ok maybe you could put some stickers like you go to coffee shop and you scan the QR code and then based of that you can confirm whether this is the right or or bogus server but this is very easy to circumvent someone can go in and stick new sticker on top of it so it doesn\u0027t help a lot so in the last use case that we have is inside their attack in corporate network so this is something that that threat is very interested in so the idea is that okay you are using 802 1x so you are authenticated to use the network but then you can impersonate someone else like to elevate your privileges or cover your tracks and also in the discussions one of the slightly uncommon use case was mentioned that if this would ever be deployed in a military this could be used when someone steals the device and gets access to the network it can broaden the impact of the attack so these are the use cases that we considered so ok given all that I think I covered all the aspects of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:12",
    "text": "discussions that we recently had so now I\u0027d like to consider what are the next steps so first we could fix the problem with signing the with the with the encryption size limitation there are some known techniques for that and then we could publish this as experimental so this is one option another world another option is to scope down this work to cover just the opportunistic encryption this requires some work but still it could be done the tip the possibility is to work on a problem statement first so basically step back and agree on what are the problems that we need to solve and then deliver a solution that solving only those problems and final option is to drop the work so I\u0027d like to ask you what are your opinions what are your preferences you know and also if there\u0027s a general discussion on any of the you know things that um I presented earlier people have follow-up questions around some of the things that that we talked about we\u0027d love to to hear those so Tim one airshow nhi well I vote opportunistic encryption on this one hey I also be okay if we want to go back and look the problem statement I think you know I think we\u0027re gonna have problems if we don\u0027t work on this problem and it\u0027s people are gonna look at 3315 biz and wonder where the security stuff and we can at least tell them we\u0027re working on it I think one of those two works I think dropping the work and just walking away probably isn\u0027t gonna work yeah there\u0027s another aspect that you know that we are about to send 3315 beast to ASG and well there it might be you know because it tends to approve it if there are no sexy security-oriented solutions yeah so that my preference would be one of those two okay Fred Fred Templin Boeing so so what I need is is really a very simple thing I need a way for the client to authenticate itself to the server so I don\u0027t need to have all the encryption and all the you know the other stuff that would come at this so how would that work what I\u0027d have to write my own little thing or what would it be an extension of 3315 to do just a client authentication so it depends there are couple options the 3315 this still has the authentication option and and there\u0027s a registry of algorithms so you could write this very simple job that you asked for a new assignment assignment of a new value in that and then define your algorithm for for doing that or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:14",
    "text": "alternatively you could use the parts from from the from the existing draft but I think going quit using the authentication option would be simpler okay okay that makes great sense thank you okay Francie\u0027s consider po I say if we have some hustles to do new work we should go directly to the problem statement because from the beginnings one of the program of the security CP this exam was to have no problem statement so kind of solution I was very news about this part and I give you one of the source of the final situation where we are so if you have soy sauce put it in a form statement okay yes I this burning also I guess one issue with doing the problem statement stuff is can do we think we can get to agreement on what we actually would would want in an end solution not I\u0027m not saying that it\u0027s super when we\u0027ve English it\u0027s not problem statement you have French with the s2 program because it\u0027s not obviously is not only one problem to solve okay yeah penny but if we cannot agree what\u0027s the problem we try to solve will just fail if we jump into the solution because so you know it\u0027s it\u0027s more no it was more bad you know the forethought from which you drop the work which is obviously we can all agree that that we know what that means right the problem statement might end up that we you know we don\u0027t know you know or I look at it more as a requirement statement you know what do we require that a problem statement because I think it should be sort of the combination of the two to say what are the problems that we\u0027re trying to solve and therefore what are the requirements you know and the question is do we think we can get two and a group understanding of what those are because different people may want different things okay so it seems that we can easily cross out the first one nobody\u0027s really favoring this with the opportunistic encryption I I don\u0027t here anyone really interested in that either so Tim Tim was interested in it I think sorry yeah and and we certainly know that one of the security IDs Kathleen is interested in it yes but she said that it\u0027s better than dropping the whole work so it\u0027s it\u0027s better than nothing yeah okay so in the case we have three options so or well I guess there\u0027s also question about you know we haven\u0027t had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:15",
    "text": "that much discussion and we\u0027ll have to take anything that we do of course of the mailing list to just sort of confirm but I guess we you know if there is a consensus in the room that would be useful and so I guess we should go through the four options and ask how many people are in favor either in terms of a home or a hand-raising and the other question that I you know do we want to ask people just to limit themselves to one of the four or are you allowed to vote for more than what well or do you want to make any statements yeah yeah right on time good luckily for once Kathleen we\u0027re already second day so I\u0027d be really good with you just doing the opportunist encryption because I think that\u0027s kind of easy ish and I bet I can get some IPSec people to help I know you didn\u0027t want to do it right at the IPSec at this at the same layer but using similar principles that we get some people to help yeah and it would solve the airport use case like I don\u0027t use wireless at an airport we also have I Triple E doing things like standardizing the function to randomly assign MAC addresses right they\u0027re going to that kind of trouble and we can\u0027t even do this very basic level of encryption at the very next step right so if you think about like the fruit they\u0027re picking off we\u0027re not picking off the fruit that we can be we have already Parviz eons the HCP so we have already something which had a useful since article from DCP and just use fake one-time identification it hasn\u0027t right I\u0027m not sure if you are having language FC 78 44 the idea is that the client okay yeah so anyway their idea is that the client doesn\u0027t send any kind of identification that is useful or stable it\u0027s just changed changes it so yes you can you can scoop it with provide monitoring but it\u0027s useful it\u0027s sorry - useless - case so only things we can give it is a MAC address sound and cell to scope of the ACP to hide the zoo MAC address but also specific solution facets but it\u0027s only things yeah you have to really so Kathleen we already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:15",
    "text": "set KD again to comments on that so encryption would help to make it be an active attack to be able to look at whether or not that function is in use and my other question is how often is that ability understood and used by deployers of airports networks and coffee shop networks well it would be the clients that would be the ones that have an anonymity profile and so it\u0027s up to the client implementers to implement that and you know just like the MAC address random is any server would work with that yes I mean no there\u0027s nothing that the server would have to do obviously there is you know if the client changes its its addresses very frequently its MAC addresses very frequently and also therefore changes its its client identifier that it presents to the DHCP server it would have to change his hat because if the lease is still active so the idea would be that you go into one airport you might get MAC address a and client identifier a and then you go to a different Airport and you know you would connect differently you would have a different MAC address and a different client identifier okay so I guess I would like I still would like to see opportunistic encryption as a possibility as just the lowest possible thing you can do to ensure that it\u0027s just active attacks I would either get at this level um you\u0027ve done seven years of work on this and to throw away the idea completely just yeah I mean we\u0027ve in Racine and I have been reading drafts and I don\u0027t think any have come through yet where eckers read them but you know for the last few years and it\u0027s been a comment on every single one that we\u0027d like to see some encryption yeah one of the problems with such lonely drafts is that the original authors basically left there\u0027s a new team working on it and the goals has changed in the process so any new authors yeah I think we have some people that are or we have some but suits so how many active actor Altos we have like maybe two I think there\u0027s probably like three people that I think are interested in Shawn Chen and to the karlon okay yeah okay do you want more help I think I think we want more help but we don\u0027t we what we really want help on is you know not not the encryption protocols or the cryptographic algorithms because we you know we\u0027re just gonna take things off the shelf but technical guidance on exactly how the bits should go over the wire and how the stuff is constructed right because that\u0027s where we\u0027re not none of the people well I can\u0027t speak for everybody but certainly I\u0027m not a security person "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:15",
    "text": "and so you know we kind of know things at the 10,000 foot level and stuff but we need people that that can actually tell us yeah that\u0027s the right way to do stuff and provide that kind of you know protocol guidance okay all right um there\u0027s a lot of expertise in the IP second the IPSec working group is small but there\u0027s a lot of expertise there so I sure I could Corral one or two people to help okay and how will they react if we go there and say okay guys we need your help but we don\u0027t want to use IPSec what would you be using then if you\u0027re not going to be defining something so the problem here is that that the first hope between the client and the relay its multicast in one direction and the client only has a link-local address and so it needs help anything\u0027s off the link so can you use in this case I don\u0027t know so I think what we want to we don\u0027t want to replace the relay you know we don\u0027t want to replace the relay agents and so we need a protocol that really works at the DCP layer because the relay will forward DHCP packets for us and there\u0027s a mechanism to do that and so we really need something that works at the DHCP layer because we can\u0027t do it at the IP layer unless we do hop-by-hop and the problem with hop-by-hop is that you know that that I mean that could be an option but now we have to put that logic in the relays which is something that we don\u0027t really want to do right so the IPSec will work fine it\u0027s the key exchange it\u0027s the the key exchanges the whole problem here an IEP to the multicast thing is gonna be you know they tried to do this in routing protocols and did not have a lot of success with Karp III think we should go talk to them and I think it\u0027s a conversation we can have saying this is our use case for a first hop you\u0027re gonna have to talk about the IPSec will work fine you can put any rule you want in there like you could manually configure this right obviously we don\u0027t want to manually configure it that\u0027s the problem but I would work for the relays because you then relays aren\u0027t gonna be able to pick up the packet they\u0027d have to exchange I\u0027d have to think about this Tim when Tim\u0027s better at this and I mean this is why Tim\u0027s suggesting you know he\u0027s worked with the IPSec working group for some time he obviously does all the v6 IP sex testing that we do at the lab he\u0027d be that kind of stuff if you want to talk details he\u0027s the guy you want to talk to Mike and he can walk you through all of that but it\u0027s beyond me he\u0027s not here this week unfortunately we already answers came up the discussion find Sansa I heard some help about the pur Couture part to see if there is something usable we have a lot of hard things to adapt disappea to do securities you can go to one exchange "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:17",
    "text": "with me together twist a nightmare of course you have no address so you can choose any stone de her security protocol so we already go on this so it\u0027s why I suggested which one or two weeks ago to go back to province admin so to to see what we want first before just going on down see is a lot of hats program different aspirin with no easy solution so so I believe we should not jump to any conclusion first or define exactly what we want but fancy if you want me to notification that\u0027s that pretty hard to do no then even if you have notification just a key exchanger it\u0027s hard to do with only one package inside yes usually you can have true career response yes we only went to it no response one it shows one exchange okay and I just want to make sure everyone understood since the opportunistic security just means no authentication right okay so descrition and so and there\u0027s one thing I want to say here so drop the work is okay with me given that okay so if you decide to go that way like 33 15 biz has to probably do something more so you cannot use a cuts does doesn\u0027t exist right like so and so I\u0027m fine with working on the problem statement like do opportunistic encryption is okay first one not okay like it does not really make sense because if it\u0027s not usable why would we bother right so I\u0027m fine with all the other three things and if 3315 business comes out quickly or I can actually do this now and like take it lean like a cur and get a signal review done for that right like so make sure they look at it and say okay like what about this and that could give us information about what goes into the problem statement after right because if they say like oh you need to encrypt this because this is like personally identifiable MAC address in there and then we say okay cool like that could be something we look at but I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve done the security side of this and I think we should so like I asked explicitly call first sector review for this like couple of meetings ago right because this was obviously a security thing but I\u0027m I\u0027m talking about doing the security review for 3315 this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:17",
    "text": "which is like a huge document but I think it\u0027ll take some effort but if like you know caffeine can come back with like you know review of it saying like hey guys like you need encryption here or is it on then we have a different path to go forward because we are the authentication option and then we say ok we have authentication on this and we\u0027re all set right so I think that would be my preferred way forward kattiline so um just to tap onto that when you send that request over it sounds like you\u0027re not just looking for a security review but for a threat analysis okay no but but there is a security consideration section but just to make sure if that\u0027s okay yes so for the threat analysis aspect I think what the depending on who\u0027s doing the work I might have to pair up people because there are things that you guys know that may not be may not be known so so like threat analysis is a whole yeah whereas the security review you\u0027re getting the knowledge of the reviewer and if they\u0027re not deep in this space you\u0027re gonna get a very different review than somebody who\u0027s deep in this space and then even to people who are deep in this space you can get very different reviews okay so so if I if I paraphrase you like maybe I\u0027m misreading but like you want us to do a little bit more homework before we come to you because is that a fair statement okay okay so there\u0027s no soul at FC 78 I think 19 that\u0027s privacy analysis it covers some of the attacks it\u0027s it\u0027s not it\u0027s not the full scope but at the time we were focusing on attacks that can impact privacy so we hashed out on the list but so let\u0027s try to put some more effort into like the security consideration see what the threats are and then throw it out to the seg there to see if like that sounds reasonable okay okay funny you don\u0027t look on this no I\u0027m just trying to figure out are we gonna so are we gonna ask about these four or are we just gonna proceed with saying let\u0027s see what what 3315 analysis shows the lecar okay so a different rather than dropping the work we would be suspending the work on this pending the outcome of what the iesg finally decides about whether what we have in 33 or 50 this is acceptable or not like the signal earlier can happen before the ESG right so like just waiting for an initial signal review and then we decide okay but I mean yeah I mean it\u0027s just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:17",
    "text": "the process of going through this review the security reviews and stuff like that okay which we should be able to do fairly soon so it\u0027s it may not really delay things that much and it\u0027s if somebody really is an interest on one of these you know isn\u0027t drop the work they can start the work yeah so okay okay so seems like we have a plan so I think so I think we\u0027re sort of deferring the the action until we understand but still when we have someone to go in to review the security considerations in B\u0027s third one which is that we\u0027re really trying to figure out is there really a problem that we need to solve right and if what we have today is acceptable then we don\u0027t there\u0027s no problem we need to solve security on privacy considerations well we have we actually have both in this case okay all right so I think unless you know that\u0027s what I mean does anybody have any feelings about that that\u0027s a bad direction does they may want to so so I just to summarize I think we\u0027re going to do now is wait to see what happens with the security privacy analysis of 3315 bills to see if there is a problem that we still need to solve and based on that result we\u0027ll have to figure out what we do with the work anybody and then you know we\u0027ll we\u0027ll confirm that on the list C but otherwise okay good good okay thanks okay thank you all right so next we have a remote and union have to hit the red button or do I still have to hit the red button can you hear us can ya hear you excellent thank you so you can begin you know I\u0027ll probably have to run the slides for you so let me know when to advance okay sure good afternoon everyone my name is Srinivas Mallory I have a prediction in Bangalore so I could make that possibility because of some logistic issues I hope this demo presentation will go but without much buffering and other problems can we start with the next slide already okay so the this presentation is about one of the graph that I submitted individually and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:18",
    "text": "context here is Internet of Things we are using your protocol over five the life I appreciate the mission in IOT and mission to Mission communication scenarios now this is used to manage the devices and to collect the data from the devices for such cases and as you all know did CP v6 is still popular in mayate networks to get the fixes and IPS of course so we realize that that is need to support some options to enable every services I would hear any devices these options have acquired in dhcpv6 of course we thought of proposing same for p4 also to negative life that\u0027s it so that can be more easily okay now before we proceed with the proposed draft just to set the context I want to use this slide to talk about nwm so a library Shinto mission protocol is a specification defined in Open Mobile Alliance a device management vendor data collection it\u0027s a client-server protocol just like any other claims I\u0027m gonna call it works and this runs on constrained application protocol which is IETF RFC seven two five two so this constraint application protocol provides service for end of this just like HTTP except that it runs from UDP to make it lightweight so now if you see this diagram lightweight mission to Mission client managers some data objects obviously those data objects are nothing like the data that we want to exchange in Iwate scenarios by example maybe the location of the device temperature humidity this den of objects are defined in is what objects and you can see two different servers here one is boots webserver and the other one is actual like recognition Commission medical management server so the boots web server is the one which is used to push up the client device and during the most traffic provides the information that is required to get connected with the actual management server so doing boots fabric provides information like management server maybe the URI required to connect and also some security credentials or certificate such things also but the whole problem which we are talking here is the bootstrap server information itself is hard-coded on is manually configured today on aw my devices so that\u0027s an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:19",
    "text": "article practice because the server might change in between if we want to be bootstrap it\u0027s possible that the server is no my level so there should be a minute to get it dynamically so can we push it the next leg okay in summary and what we are proposing is as I said the bootstrapping server information is are coded or manually configured today at the client devices so we see need for the few options require four of them in the two of them they are appended February 406 here one is the UI itself which is required to get connected with the source web server we can use dhcpv6 option this one then the second one is the certificate that is required to connect with the first our server the same these two options I thought execute the proposed for me for also the v4 is not so popular in Iwate networks today just to make sure that the options are available for me for I thought it\u0027s better to focus okay can we can we go to the next line okay now we are already starting with the options that we are proposing the first one is the bootstrap server URI I mean it\u0027s the option structure and now of course any can talk about it it\u0027s it\u0027s right for what this URI is I mean the standard format it\u0027s a string that we use it\u0027s not an ultimate extreme so how to input this URI it\u0027s already mentioned in our options related or axis which is provided in that I dropped as a reference so can we move on to the next one so the next one is a LW MDM server certificate that\u0027s required to get connectivity so here there are few issues have two concerns arise which I am trying to address one is about validating the certificate itself how do we validate and there are two comments received our reference provided about I\u0027ve seen seven two nine six section radar six and what type of certificates can be encoded that Senator comment I received only created so so this certificate is used to get connected with an Olympian bootstrap server and when the important point here is in the MM term case it\u0027s possible that the bootstrap server and management server might be same in such cases the same options which we are talking here can be used for management server also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:20",
    "text": "which is not explicitly mentioned in the draft so you know facility paw ah oops fuck I think your words yeah yeah so force is upon so uh I sent an email on Solis because I believe lasted not about so I agreed to agree to sell torpedoed which is section free that six is the specified and I propose some improvements so it can just read the list on discuss with me if you mean you have multi tests or you need something else yeah is not this comment just few minutes about maybe three minutes ago I was trying to understand and I will get in touch with you through the email to understand it better and so some very it\u0027s again it\u0027s a good idea the same thing but it\u0027s in the specified are you have an opportunity to do something which I believe would be better in the in your context okay I will referring some more about the encoding formats liking the comment I will refer this RFC and update this and the next one is of course again the bootstrap URI 24option structure again I am not happy about it it\u0027s stranded one so maybe we can already move the next about it and here we are again the certificate that we want to use puppy for clients there are some concerns expressed about this also about the size of the certificate itself might be very big and we can\u0027t accommodate it in the private option as this was already a comment I received from me and they also suggested to use some other reference where one of the autopsy talks about how to import bigger options in TV for options so I mentioned that already in the draft and this is also common I received today from France if I\u0027m not wrong so that\u0027s it I think that there\u0027s nothing much to talk about options they are trying forward except the use case which I feel it\u0027s important "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:20",
    "text": "here so the next steps which I want to discuss are there few comments which I already addressed which I\u0027ve issued earlier through means there are new comments which I received today and on them of course and the one more important thing is I\u0027m sure there might be two other people working on this i OTE just kissed since in I use I would like to know if there are more those cases where someone drops be quiet so that we can pour that when when draft on document so that it covers all I would be related scenarios at least known I would be billeted scenarios if not all so that\u0027s something I want to understand from anybody in the room and of course the next step is there if this makes sense I would like to hear from you to know if it can be adapted SBHC okay this is Bernie volts a few questions you\u0027re on you mentioned that most most IOT stuff is using v6 and I know you could define v4 options but if nobody\u0027s gonna use them it may be better not to do them because the v4 option space is a little tighter I mean you know maybe v4 is dead and we don\u0027t have to worry about it but you know just a question I mean it may be better if you don\u0027t need them to just remove them because you know it just preserves that resource I understand that point but I wanted to reverse this because when we see the devices that are coming in to properly market we see one statement in [Music] support a journalist they say as of now I am a poor ipv6 will be supported later this is the kind of statements we keep listening so maybe whether such devices which are still not completely ready maybe we can still use me for that the reason why I wanted to keep it of course as you said India Cherokee nobody is view is going to use v4 at all in any scenario then yes I think we can skip it and also when my point is maybe in industrial automation kind of cases where a polite way to the mission protocol is running I\u0027m not sure whether they\u0027ll completely go for me for or they\u0027re still use they own internet with sorry they will go for me fix whatnot they might use their own internet v4 it\u0027s okay you know if you don\u0027t need it don\u0027t ask for it but if you think you do that\u0027s fine I I think they also follow the rc7 2 to 7 guidelines so you know there\u0027s not really much we comment on the question about doing an adoption call really goes to Suresh and the question about is there a you know there there probably is no other working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:20",
    "text": "that would cover this technology and therefore it really does fall back to us and as long as you know Suresh is in favor of us doing the adoption call I think that we can easily proceed with that yeah so there\u0027s no other working group that can take this so this is done in an external SEO right seeing us discuss this with other people especially in the core and such groups who are doing things towards IOT but I don\u0027t find any suitable working group that\u0027s because the awm itself is not so so I don\u0027t mind like but as long as like make sure there\u0027s like you know somebody to review this here and I\u0027ll try to find review outside but I my only concern would be like whether this will get enough review here so like we can look at the option formats but the content itself I\u0027m not sure how we can get review here so like maybe we had to figure out how to do that but I don\u0027t mind if you are out this and like we\u0027ll figure out how to do that if there is interest to do it here I can find some people who are working in thing to Amenti to be working group that\u0027s another thing probably which is the closest thing I can think of if there are few people in research group yeah we can find them there but like want them to come here and like do the reviews right so that\u0027s something we\u0027ll figure it out okay it\u0027s not going to pass working group laughs all right thank you thank you so any other comments all right well thank you okay I thought for instance is getting him okay well thank you yeah thank you okay and now we have it Willis to present on the on demand extensions okay now it\u0027s a different one okay okay thank you for letting me present stuff here I\u0027m not part of the FCC speak up a little bit I\u0027m sorry so this is work that is being done in DMM group and I\u0027ll give you a very short and high-level description of what we\u0027re doing and why we need help from DHCP or why are we proposing to have to define some new option or options and actually what we need from the DC group is more a review "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:22",
    "text": "of making sure that we are not violating any DHCP formats or message passing or things like that okay regarding the DMM stuff we are reviewing that in DMM okay so a very quick description of what\u0027s happening in DMM and we are talking about mobile networks so in mobile minute networks one of the problems that we have is to maintain IP session continuity while a node travels around the network so when and moves from one point of connection to another it might move to a different land and as a result we\u0027ll need a different IP prefix and as a result its original source IP address will go away and that might be problematic for existing applications that are the middle of exchanging traffic so the way mobile networks resolve this problem a long time ago is via tunneling so if I\u0027ll give an example from proxy mobile ipv6 to the network through Max and the LM a is some mobility anchor which exposes traffic to the rest of the network and we create a tunnel between the LM a and the Mac to make sure that traffic which is destined to the mobile network over there will get there even though its source IP address is really this prefix so that the traffic can go to the corresponding node over here and when the mobile node moves from one place to another it\u0027s the responsibility of the network to update the tunnel to the new Mac and as a result IP continued continuity is preserved so this is what exists today and it works fine and everybody is happy but this could be optimized and the problem is that we have many mobile nodes and many corresponding nodes and you can start seeing all the traffic has to go through that LM a and if we continue and even have much more we are getting into a problem failure it\u0027s a bottleneck there are all kinds of issues around that and in DMM we are trying to resolve this problem and we are trying to resolve this problem in different ways all are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:24",
    "text": "good sorry so one way of course is to distribute the enemy and have several enemies and by that direct part of the mobile nodes many others to another enemy and so on and so forth so we are resolving the single point of failure and the bottlenecks and stuff like that so this is one solution that we are trying to define and there is another solution or another way of looking at things so if you think about it before I try to explain why I see continuity is important but really some applications don\u0027t really need IP continuity they could manage managed very well a modification of their source IP address they will reopen a socket with a new IP address the user experience won\u0027t be really affected and everything works well so if we manage to present to the network when we need IP address continuity and when you don\u0027t need IP address continuity we offload some of the activity from those mobility anchors that I showed before and for that one of the things that we need is a support in DHCP okay I don\u0027t get into too much details about that but this slide shows different types of IP addresses or actually services that an application can request from the network maybe I\u0027ll just describe to one is session lasting IP address such an IP address is guaranteed by the network to be valid as long as the session is still running this is excellent service from the network and of course it requires the tunneling and it\u0027s costly and the other one I want to describe here is non persistent non persistent means no guarantee you are getting an IP address it might go away you will have to deal with that and I showed that there are patience that can deal with that of course for session last thing we need a mobility anchor or an LMA and for non-persistent we don\u0027t need okay so actually in the draft that I referenced in the mailing list we introduced two new options we tried to limit the changes that we are requesting from DHCP we are not experts in DHCP and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:24",
    "text": "we didn\u0027t want we don\u0027t think we need too much activity in DHCP and ok so one one option is to be able to when we request a prefix through prefix delegate delegation we want to be able to communicate to the network what kind of service we want and in the reply we want to see from the network if we receive that service or not and there is also another need which I\u0027ll talk in a minute so the IP continuity service option is the new option that we were requesting this is the option in which mobile host indicates to the network what type of service it requires and for the network to provide the information about what has been provisioned the other option has a star on it because I\u0027m not absolutely sure we need it and I would like to consult with you I will describe it later on as I said before there is no impact on DHCP message flow we\u0027re not changing anything we are not changing any format we are just adding new options so an example for the IP continuity service option it should be encapsulated in the prefix option options area of the prefix delegation option this is where it has to be I am trying to show here a schematic of where it is and it\u0027s similar to the status code a status code option which also appears in that options area so this is where we see this new option coming in it\u0027s a very simple option the length is 1 it has an option code and the service type is coded and we actually need 2 bits or I\u0027m sorry 3 bits to code of different service types so this is this option some usage rules and we are all and I\u0027ll talk also about backwards compatibility so usage rules the client is always the first to request this option the server "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:24",
    "text": "will reply using this option only when it initially received the request for this option and once the server replied with this option any subsequent messages which are related to this prefix should use this option and should not change the value so it\u0027s not like I requested session nesting IP prefix I got one and then at some point I\u0027m trying to renew the lease but with a different type this is not allowed backwards compatibility we assume that there will be servers that won\u0027t support this these new options so we\u0027re trying to define rules for backwards compatibility yes about this our are check-ins free--free 1/5 B so femoris bestow command and say we know the option should be in York you know you know yes good so so it\u0027s sue should walk with a program with a compliant server okay so so this is what is you and what we are saying here is okay let\u0027s assume the client requests a prefix with this option and since the server will ignore it it won\u0027t get a reply it will get a reply it will get a reply as if it was just a nominal I a prefix option without oh so I didn\u0027t understand Oh so that\u0027s that so but no it\u0027s not a bad because the reply will not include the community service options I see no I see okay so I\u0027ll fix I\u0027ll fix the text in the draft to say what happens in that case and so so the right message flow is the client will request prefix with this option will receive a reply without this option and will deduct that the server doesn\u0027t support that okay okay thank you okay so I\u0027ll fix that and of course our server cannot reply with the prefix with that option if the client didn\u0027t initially request that object okay again for backwards-compatible yes I do not read suit off but I believe you I did at least one you a ho when he has some prefix but not for this kind of right so we so actually we defined an error for that we had a typo in the error I got a I got an an email from the list about that and I\u0027ll fix that that the error said address not available something like that and and the comment was you should write prefix not available so I\u0027ll fix that so I see you have a comment here about the client recording the information that the server doesn\u0027t support the option it\u0027s tricky not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:26",
    "text": "necessary the client could continue sending this option in following messages if it still makes sense from the right perspective because there\u0027s capability could be an ended lighter at the time and the client than would pick it because otherwise when you visit a new network and it detects that okay is this ability is not enabled and then it\u0027s it gets an a bit lighter the client would never be able to detect this so so I\u0027m trying to think I think that in the text in the draft I have to visit that I wrote that subsequent subsequent messages should not have that option but every once in a while it can introduce the option again it\u0027s probably easier just to say said always exactly especially as you\u0027re saying the option will be ignored I wasn\u0027t I wasn\u0027t aware that the server will ignore it but will reply but since it does maybe this makes more sense so I will fix that okay oh I didn\u0027t talk about the I want to talk back about the anchor preference option okay what is an anchor preference option and why I\u0027m not sure we need it if we go back to this slide we can see that we have several anchors in this slide we have three anchors and there is an issue of how does the network allocate a specific anchor to a note the anchors here are the enemies yes now we didn\u0027t get into too much work regarding how to allocate anchors not yet at least in DMM but I was requested but by one of the delegates to enable a future algorithm where the node knows what\u0027s best for him and will ask for a specific anchor now the node is not aware of anchors but the node has history about prefixes it received in the past and if it comes and says give me this prefix it actually means I want this route this LMA or this because the different anchors provide different prefixes so we thought to add this option where a node requests or hints hey it\u0027ll be nice if I get this this prefix meaning this is the LMA I want or the anchor I want it doesn\u0027t necessarily have to receive this specific prefix but it wants to receive a prefix from that LMA okay now when I read and by the way the network and it\u0027s written there the network doesn\u0027t have to provide that prefix it\u0027s just a hit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:29",
    "text": "now when I read the prefix delegation draft or IRC again I saw that this already exists so I said hey maybe we don\u0027t need it but the interpretation is a little different and I wanted to make sure that it\u0027s okay or whether I need another option the interpretation that I understood from the RFC is when a note requests a certain prefix it wants that certain prefix and what we\u0027re saying here is when we hint on that prefix we will be satisfied with any prefix associated with the same enemy I I think that you know that the nodes really don\u0027t care it\u0027s the server\u0027s policy that comes into play there and so it\u0027s much more server thing that you have because what you know the prefix that comes back as the prefix it\u0027s going to use and if it isn\u0027t if it\u0027s on a different LMA or some of the same LMA it may not know well I know it won\u0027t know right and so it\u0027s really that really comes down to a server policy issue so that\u0027s something that is really something that the the implementers are the service that write to support the LMA stuff would be more concerned about right is the client would probably not you know doesn\u0027t know so right because I think you don\u0027t need a new option to just you just request the client you just have the client request that prefix and then if the server gives it that prefix or gives it some other prefix it\u0027s really up to the server to determine what meaning that has right so this was my thinking I wasn\u0027t sure this is why I didn\u0027t remove that before coming here so what I\u0027m understanding from from this conversation is I can remove that option and I\u0027ll be left with only one option very simple option and that\u0027s a good thing well and you may need I think what you will need to do in your document is to put a note that you know it is a matter of server policy in this particular environment how that requested prefix okay is used yeah because the normal policy for server would be hey there\u0027s a diary can I give that prefix to that client yes or no okay and and if I can it usually does but you wanted if it can\u0027t give it then you want it to assign a you know not just pick an arbitrary prefix but pick one on that LMA and if not yeah yeah okay but it\u0027s more of a server policy thing that you will probably need your documents yes I heard come on you read the famous beefs document which is that is not really enough I\u0027ll just say it in the least so you\u0027re talking about 33 15 bits yes no so I must admit I didn\u0027t read that I read 33 15 and 36 33 yes you should be sweet cheese okay so I\u0027ll do that and I think I got quite a few comments on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:29",
    "text": "list in here which is very helpful so I will pretend I\u0027ll read 33:15 this and then I will issue a new version of the draft and I\u0027m getting to next steps so so I will probably be happy to receive another review on that new draft just to make sure that I captured the comments correctly and that I didn\u0027t break anything and if I get a V from DHC I can go back to the mm and say DHC approved that we can continue our work yes and I think if you know because options will eventually require both Sanders action and expert review you know some of the people that are viewing it are active that you see working growth will get a review at that point but I think it\u0027s still better that whenever you make a change or like when you go for a working group last call come in the DM n let us know about it because that\u0027s another viewpoint so if you make any substantive changes you know I mean if you\u0027re just republishing to keep it alive or something or make a Natori elaine\u0027s no big deal but if there\u0027s a substantial change makes notify us about the change and also if you go to working group last call include us in the working group last call cycle just so that we\u0027re aware of it that\u0027s a good plan okay thank you very much yes so I\u0027ll do it on Monday D for both so I\u0027ll do it well it\u0027s nice if they can do it right it\u0027s one less thing you have to worry about no but I had to watch out I\u0027d like people that I slip things by me all the time sir okay well anybody have anything else they\u0027d like to discuss before we close the working group meeting all right well thank you and and if you haven\u0027t signed yet the blue sheets please do they\u0027re important and thank you for attending you "
  }
]