[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:01",
    "text": "hey this is TLS we\u0027re gonna start now can you hear me I wondered how the audio is up here for all week so should I back off the money all right let\u0027s do this thanks if you\u0027re not here for TLS please leave I\u0027m just learning here\u0027s the note well whatever what\u0027s today Tuesday it\u0027s Tuesday you should have seen this a little bit basically it\u0027s about IPR rules if you\u0027re you know about stuff IPR or lay the topics were discussing you\u0027re supposed to mention them they\u0027re gonna be recorded that kind of stuff please read requests need a minute taker and a jabber scribe we can\u0027t proceed until we get one of them jabber thank you David note-taker but we need is the we don\u0027t even play by play taker we just need people that actually take the action items and the output there we go rich thank you very much all right this blue sheets are going around please on them we\u0027re at the microphone please state your name for the minutes let\u0027s keep it professional and now let\u0027s try to be succinct all right here\u0027s our agenda time as you may have seen on the list we instituted a new presentation policy that we want presentations early please do that we are gonna do some adjustments based on that because somebody was super late so here\u0027s our agenda for today um delegated signing keys made delegated certificates this is a suggestion to rename it returning route ability check for TLS deprecating md5 of Flags extensions suppressing intermediate series their mediate certificates and fee lost one point three impacts on network based security the difference I guess I should have noted that the address between the two lines are working group drafts and the other drafts are individual submissions and that\u0027ll be our agenda for Thursday richer document status we have Greece is an idiom we have exported authenticators is going to ready for right up and then the publication requested of to the issues and requirements for S\u0026I TLS certificate compression we hope to have GTS 1.3 and the details connection ID and working group last call shortly that obviously assumes that we can address those issues like this week so that\u0027s kind of one of our main things that we\u0027re hoping to do um then we have been progress as they have the rest of the other drafts the decorating credentials yes mi for TLS deprecated TLS will put oh and 1.1 sorry that\u0027s in the wrong slot that is being publication requested that\u0027s already been through working with last call ticket requests in surplus PSK and external PST reporters just wanted to let you guys know since we\u0027ve lowered the code bars and basically the des can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "assign coup points for many of our tracks I just wanted to kind of give you a heads up that they\u0027ve been busy so here\u0027s a bunch of schemes the ones on the left are working group ITF working group assigned drafts that were either signed as a result of early allocations so we have a couple there and then we have a bunch of other ones there may or may not be publishing RFC\u0027s we don\u0027t know just kind of a heads up one of the things I\u0027m looking at is trying to get I ana to actually copy the TLS lists so we\u0027ll know when the values or assign so homeowners will know what they are so it\u0027s just kind of a heads up because I bet you a lot of you didn\u0027t know about some of these we have a website Chris did a lot of work on this it\u0027s still up there and people want to get on there and start hacking away feel free alright that\u0027s it actually real quickly the super-g is accurately doing or conducting a pig selection process to identify some fake well at least one fake or maybe none I don\u0027t actually don\u0027t let the criterias and they\u0027re actively going through that right now and as you may have seen on the list they\u0027re discussing integration with TLS 10 and 5 is here to potentially give us some insight into what the CFR G is requesting from the TLS working group so give you before thank you so much Jeff safer g63 so actually we are currently in the process of selecting one or two or maybe zero eggs as a result of the selection process and one of most important questions is integration into talents and the scenes we have had a lot of discussions and a lot of abilities and drafts of integration of OPEC in the tellers spec to into tellers cetera we\u0027ve had a lot of discussions of how to integrate a any bakes into TLS so we\u0027ll have a call for experts called for reviews for a number of questions and one of these questions is integration into late delays so if you will be safer G on Thursday you\u0027ll hear this call for experts and if you don\u0027t please just know that we really need as a expert view from the Illes working group point of view about each candidate about each nominated pact because really wants that if we choose one or two as that will be really convenient for usage for example in TLS thank you No all right so first up minutes delegating credentials from Nick okay say I tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:11",
    "text": "you I\u0027m the next slide so the thing works great so delegate credentials we\u0027ve been working on this for quite a lot more on draft for there are two changes in for one very minor adding the ETLs extension text vienna have not submitted the code point request yet but to be to be done and also extending this delegated credentials functionality to work with client certificates running code update we have a site running with seven-day delegated credential that auto updates and a certificate with the appropriate o ID there is a patch or server side that is has done boring ssl as well as a patch on the client side in NSS which is has been integrated into Firefox which I believe is we on a preference flag or if not will be very soon pardon yeah Mon Thompson I can report on NSS NSS has support for both client and server on this one our command-line tool doesn\u0027t have server support just yet to do the the patch for Firefox for the pref is landed but not yet in nightly I just updated nightly and hasn\u0027t appeared yet tomorrow I imagine there\u0027s a bunch of sort of plumbing stuff that we need to do but we expect to have that one turned on in nightly soonish probably within a couple of weeks we are waiting on Jonathan\u0027s analysis before we do anything crazy like chip in release thanks yep and I\u0027ve heard also some rumors from Facebook that there may be some into some implementation so maybe someone from them can comment Kyle nekritz we have support in development the fizzle I bury its I believe we verified Interop was at least boring as a cell it\u0027s not landed yet but over the coming months it should be okay so this is the running code update there are currently four open issues to discuss here some of these are just editorial and pretty minor so I\u0027ll go over these cut ties with lurk there\u0027s references to the lurk ID it may not be canonical to reference an ID that is not going to be published in here so there are ways of replacing this with generic text PSS we are not explicit about not supporting pkcs1 in the current draft and I I believe that\u0027s pretty non-controversial to remove this Martin yeah non Thompson I support the proposal that you have here but I think there\u0027s probably a little bit more that needs to be said here I recently implemented support from the PSS spki for the delegated credential "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:11",
    "text": "and it was a little tricky so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a little bit of fiddling around that you need to do in order to get those or working so there\u0027s that if everyone will remember there\u0027s two signature schemes in for every hash function for RSA there is the PSS signature scheme that uses the RSA encryption spki and then the one the same that uses the PSS spki and there\u0027s not a lot of wide support for the PSS spk is because we don\u0027t see them in certificates but we may see them in delegated credentials and so there\u0027s a little bit of tricky stuff to deal with in this area probably worth doing a little bit more discussion in the draft about these ones okay and do you have any proposed text for this I can help with the text on this one if you\u0027re gonna put me on the spot yeah okay my to-do list but it might technically what we can continue with this offline the the other piece here is last meeting we discussed not going forward with an RFC until there\u0027s some type of forum formal analysis so this is an outline of a formal analysis proof that Jonathan Hoyland has volunteered to do this is his outline in terms of what we want to prove is that delegate credentials do not weaken the current PKI and that they strengthen the current PKI there is a set of formal requirements for this to be secure this is going to be a by hand proof and this is from the composition result from cheval and all too defined set of requirements on PK eyes and public key protocols that when used together are secure the proof sketch is assumed that the current PKI is secure uh-huh mez dhaba but um in any case that\u0027s the assumption boundary and that\u0027s the assumption boundary we\u0027ve had for TLS as well and maybe Jonathan can comment more because he\u0027s got the mic yeah the the assume the current PKI secure is not so much that I believe the current PKI secure it\u0027s that I think we can prove that anything that\u0027s broken about PKI plus delegated potentials is also broken in the PKI and therefore we don\u0027t have to care about that right so it\u0027s an implication error that arrow in that if this is broken then the entire PPI is broken and then several other points here proving specifically that this gives us the properties that we watch essentially yeah the delegates credentials a secure can be composed of the PPI and that they therefore can complete a PKI in northland selves right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:12",
    "text": "so this is this is the other question someone actually brought something up earlier this might not be the right name for it but there\u0027s been some fusion confusion about delegated credentials we don\u0027t this is not really a credential as much as it is a narrowing of the scope of time and a swap of the key there\u0027s no additional property is that this imbues onto the connection it doesn\u0027t say anything about key usages it doesn\u0027t say anything about the host names or the sands or anything like this so it may be worth I brought this idea of changing the name from delegated credentials to delegated signing keys and it was reminded that in potential future versions of TLS there may be semi static TLS so I haven\u0027t had a chance to change that so maybe the proposal is delegated authentication keys and if anyone\u0027s violently opposed to the name I don\u0027t think it it really makes that much of a difference but credential here is is a confusing word is loaded and so we might not want to use this this in this context I guess the question from the chairs perspective in trying to move the document forward is there anybody that\u0027s gonna like fall on the sword if he picks a name that\u0027s different than what\u0027s what it is now I mean obviously knowing that nick is a reasonable man and he\u0027s not just gonna make up some crazy name okay delegated authentication keys because that\u0027s really what we\u0027re doing is we\u0027re delegating the handshake authentication key and that\u0027s it so with respect to where the document is it\u0027s gone through several reviews lots of implementation we are going to get more production deployment experience very soon as I mentioned there are servers up there are clients there\u0027s different different stacks that have interoperability there\u0027s kind of two options here we\u0027ve discussed the formal analysis as being important for the RFC but as these it\u0027s potentially useful for these things to go in parallel so we could begin the last call alongside the formal analysis or we could wait for the formal analysis to be complete and I\u0027m bringing this two to the floor to see what people prefer Eric rola and they don\u0027t think it matters super much which one we do I guess my vote would be to do the boss call concurrently just because then we\u0027re like not burning whatever it is you know two weeks afterwards everyone else is complete I think it\u0027s a reasonable assumption the whole analysis will be like you know we\u0027ll come out okay it doesn\u0027t come out okay they\u0027re like right how much for your problems like everything weekend last call so so I think I would do currently but I get also people feel strong in other way it doesn\u0027t really matter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:16",
    "text": "some Cibola anger I think there\u0027s not many changes coming down the pipe seems like it you issues editorial issues mostly so I think having last call forces us to make it such that it\u0027s a pretty stable version where something we can do with formal analysis and then the one change is my why I\u0027m violently anyone and it it helps us slow it by the code point yeah mom Thompson I\u0027m reasonably happy with the the bulk of the document the only hole that I\u0027m aware of is the formal analysis I would not want to conclude a last call before that formal analysis comes in but I think I\u0027d be okay with I mean running the phone the working group last call up until the point when the analysis comes in and then we can make the decision so I think the point is that we can start them at the same time and we will not progress the document until the formal analysis absolutely so I guess what I\u0027m hearing is that the things that you\u0027re proposing now unless anyone has anything new that they want to add it looks like we\u0027re once we get a new version we can start that all process Steven borrow just a cap I mean I think starting them in parallel is fine but when the formal analysis comes in you don\u0027t just immediately end the working group last call before people have had a chance to read it right yes thank you Roman is an individual I agree you can paralyze them and depending on which one comes first you can you can say you\u0027ll gate until the conclusion like I can guarantee you that we started working with a blast call in two weeks that will probably be done first because I think it takes a little bit more brain power than but we can we yeah I became way that\u0027s what I mean we can start it in wait and then you know give people a chance to review it before WordPress employer okay that\u0027s it for delegated credentials any other questions are there any other open issues that people know about all right that\u0027s Sybilla anger I just raised an open issue I just rated an issue which is currently open it\u0027s about interaction between session tickets and get it credentials one of the open questions of that issue raises is whether if a session ticket is issued bias by a server and it has a and it would have served up delegated credential is any risks to it being accepted by a server that would not have been issued as delegate it would not have served up a delegated credential that they shared the session ticket secrets between each other I do not think that that\u0027s an issue but that\u0027s something that I would love for people to pay attention to and kind of like think about that in the working group that doesn\u0027t sound like something that would change the wire format that would be editorial so Thompson thanks for pointing that out Capote I think is probably worth going into some detail "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:18",
    "text": "about this one I would caution however that the way that people do effectively the the authorization decision or the indication choices on resumption vary wildly between implementations and so the best you can really do here is advise making sure that people are aware of the situation and the consequence of it so then they just be security considerations text they need to talk about so one final question for you Nick um are we looking at like September\u0027s time frame for the next version so we can that\u0027s none of our rate I mean obviously dependent upon how much review and comments again yeah we should definitely have it by then great an expression incorporating closing all of these issues wonderful alright delegating md5 and sha-1 say hello so the drop is nice and short the idea is to make the signature algorithms as extension mandatory for Telos combine two connections as well as for bid advertising md5 and sha-1 based algorithms a bunch of different places so this was originally proposed as part of the TLS 1.0 and 1.1 duplication discussion I think the idea where there was that tell us one point two with md5 or sha-1 could potentially be less safe than 1.0 or 1.1 but by the way it seems like a good time to do this deprecation work so we collected some data from cloud lairs network and it seems that the number of TLS 1.2 connections that I don\u0027t have a signature algorithms extension or only advertised md5 and sha-1 algorithms is really small but of course this is just one data point so if anyone has any data that they want to share with us then please do so I guess that\u0027s it in terms of next steps I guess I wonder if the working group could consider adoption but if you have any questions benkei doc so when you say make signature augur in this mandatory does that mean I like Sierra\u0027s are gonna handshake failure if they don\u0027t see it yes so I think the current Act says that server should close the connector must close the connection if they don\u0027t see our signature algorithm Adam Langley "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:21",
    "text": "measuring the incoming connections to CloudFlare measures like the client population which is very very different from the server population I just want to let you know that I think as a client by deprecating it would be way harder for us so we may be a little bit lagging on this right I guess it\u0027s kind of the same discussion we had with Ellis 1 0 and 1 1 which is like we should start telling people that they shouldn\u0027t use this and then maybe they will stop using it oh yeah publish the document but with expectations yes with me but yeah I mean if you have some data to share it and would be interesting Honus I assume the first statement applies only to cipher suites that use public key crypto so if I do a few Pritchard secret or let\u0027s say password based authenticated key exchange then I don\u0027t that doesn\u0027t apply the first one I think the dropps says anything about that because it feels like wrong to mandate sending signatures and for ciphers which they don\u0027t even make use of signatures just yeah potentially I guess we can add some some text about that and rake and rake up of Microsoft basically I agree with the intent of this of this draft I think it\u0027s a good idea to do this I don\u0027t think I can enforce this at this time so but at some time in the future it will be a good idea yeah every school on yeah first of all I want to thank you for not naming this die die die second I mean I generally such a good idea on favor of adoption which is you\u0027re asking in terms of the I\u0027m sure we can work shop some of the technical bits later Hannes I think is correct that obviously should require signature algorithms if the clients like only offering PSK several Suites but that\u0027s easy to fix I think the question of whether or not to acquire failure upon not receiving signature rhythms like largely can be resolved by as you say taking measurements of what clients offer um another reasonable alternative would be to pretend the client sent sha-256 and proceed as is but unless we can find evidence the clients like that exists that we should just go ahead and require it I\u0027m sorry we should require in any case but the question whether you are to abort depends on whether there are a lot of clients we take a shot to certificate but somehow don\u0027t sense intervals so I think this the requirement for signature algorithms comes from the fact that right now no signature algorithms means shall one no I think her I guess I\u0027d heard tell that some some some servers just sent shot to be situated anyway no matter what they got in the extension um and if that\u0027s not true or um then that\u0027s not true then we don\u0027t have to worry about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:21",
    "text": "it but if it is true and then we find the significant population that doesn\u0027t send it but that\u0027s two handshakes to work then we should like be like well those clients are busted but but we might interoperate with them but anyway it\u0027s like a measurement problem so does it resolve it a little bit Adam Langley I think we meant to stop and pause before sharing actual numbers too widely but I\u0027ve looked up the actual numbers for Chrome and they\u0027re not as bad as I thought although they are quite a long way away from us just me other switches off yeah so slightly more positive all right so we\u0027re at that fun stage how many people read this draft great how many people saw the mailing list traffic about the other draft that\u0027s burned this draft okay good so um I want to go ahead and see if we can mask for working group adoption there wasn\u0027t everybody in the room but I\u0027d like to get a sense if you would like to adopt this as a working group item to these hum now if you would not like to adopt this working this Jack does it working you bite him please home now all right let\u0027s go ahead thanks we\u0027ll verify this on the list hi and you have noon this is about a TLS flag extension I wrote a zero zero and a zero one draft during the last ITF and haven\u0027t touched it since so this is about TLS extensions tillis 1.3 currently has 28 extension types defined first 1.2 had 46 and there are many more that are proposed some extensions carry data but some like of 10 shake off carry no data at all there only data they carry is that they\u0027re actually there and so and then there are some that carry data in some context like in the client in love and then they don\u0027t know that so they actually carry one bit of memory they are there that means either I support something or I want you to do something I\u0027m going to do something and we can call these flag extensions so each such extensions takes four bytes or 32 bits of data that\u0027s 2 bytes for the type 2 bytes for the length and that makes my image engineer said so we\u0027re proposing to do to create a single extension for the for these flags and unfortunately that can only apply to future flags because you\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:22",
    "text": "never get the compatibility working for the old flag so this extension will carry a bunch of one bit indications in a more efficient way the actual format is to be decided in the future by this group assuming that we want to do this so this really short slot is that for designing if the group wants to do this or doesn\u0027t so of course I couldn\u0027t help myself and I added a few proposed formats in the following slides but the big question is do you want to do this so one proposal is to take 32 bits or maybe 16 or maybe 64 or 48 or any other number and make one extension that will have an extension data that is for its long total of eight including the extension header and this will be present in all client hello or encrypted extensions message and up to 32 flies can be supported and zero bit in this flag represents that the flag is not set or not there and the one bit says that it is if we ever get to the 33rd flag I\u0027ll get a rethink it or do a new extension or whatever and I\u0027ll remind her that TS 1.2 had 46 extensions well not of often flags but still and the puzzle too is as many bits as needed 1 extensions flags are numbered from 0 to as many as we ever defined and the extension data field is as long as we need to to include the last octet that has set flag so if we\u0027re smart about it the popular Flags are going to be with lower numbers so that we so that most handshakes have just short extensions but of course we can define a lot of them and then define another one and said oh everybody\u0027s going to use this because this is needed for post quantum whatever so maybe we can be smart and leave a few missing bits at the start so that if we ever get a popular extension down the line we can assign it a low number but I don\u0027t want us to talk about these two slides so going back to this slide with the big question do we want to do this it\u0027s four bytes per extension and we have no idea how many extensions we\u0027re going to have but doing wonderful Martin Thompson yes I have a draft that I I think we that depends on this one I don\u0027t need to depend on this one if the bottom group decides not to do this then I can keep doing the same old thing as we always have I I know that this has a bit of a bootstrapping problem it is always the case that the flags extension a single flag extension is cheaper than doing anything like this you need to be forces actually saving you any space but I I think this is a reasonable thing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:23",
    "text": "to do one comment to add to that you mentioned client\u0027ll oh and let me put it extensions what about certificate request in certificate right yeah that Eric rajala vigorously restraining myself from working on the format right now the yeah it seems like basically good idea especially yesterday about how to like make the TLS wire format smaller and this clearly would fit into that general kind of idiom I\u0027m not too worried about Martin\u0027s bigger problem in this I suggest that we just the future extensions that are like this is it only be defined this way and and I mean honestly like the diversity for whites and five bytes for the first one is pretty minimal given like the size of the handshake at present the nice thing about CTLs is that because it\u0027s a new wire protocol you can take all the existing flags and put them in the new extension that\u0027s an excellent point and actually suggest that maybe they should do that we have to careful that the assignment assignments but yes yeah this is the new pen Gilmore I just it was not clear to me how this Flags extension works with existing flag like extensions are we planning to assign the existing flag like extensions to one a bit 1 bit point here a bit point versus good point I don\u0027t know and if we are what do we do if there\u0027s a conflict in what\u0027s sent between the actual extensions and right so in my opinion we can\u0027t ever get rid of the backward compatibility problem even though TLS 1.2 B is young so everything that currently exists has to stay with a long 4 byte extension unless its CTLs words a new wire format not in Thompson I have a solution that might be less pessimistic than that which is to say that um yes unfortunately when you send a client hello you\u0027ll have to send the existing flag extensions as extensions or use SES V\u0027s it\u0027s your preferred mode of signaling these things that\u0027s just unavoidable but in the presence of this extension in the client below the server could choose to send those things in the extensions and the other messages we\u0027re talking about as well so that does save quite a bit of space particularly in in one of the more space constrained messages that we tend to have alongside certificate we send encrypted extensions and extensions in certificate requests potentially and certificate message a second so this does have the potential for saving us quite a bit of space even for those ones and I would recommend populating the low bits with in particular the renegotiation info extension and the extended Buster secret extension that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:24",
    "text": "not going to work till s13 anyway along those lines so that we can written sequel voice building then Henoch I would propose we don\u0027t need to hammer out the details and there we don\u0027t need am rather links but I agree that there\u0027s some idea is that pretty promising opportunity sir Ben Schwartz there\u0027s also quick which hopefully is not supplied yet so who\u0027s read this draft fair number of people actually um I think what we\u0027re looking for is do we want to do this and this is a working with adoption call so you would like to adopt this draft please hum now know yo your assumed to be in the es boat um if you do not wish to adopt this draft please home now let the record show that I think there was maybe one person that hummed so this is a good starting point for the draft and we will do we want to ask those people to send mail to list yes I mean that\u0027s yeah if you want to if you want to object you objectively tell us why I know this maybe they know something that\u0027s well if that\u0027s the decision then should they submit something based on the proposal number two because I have no idea what I did with the one I know the zero zero is different from 0 1 but submit anyone we\u0027re gonna I mean it\u0027s a starting point if you submit the wrong one this working group will let you know sure Chris is asking me to try to kick this quick I only have this slide so this is a flag we have a draft that promises something in the order of three times compression for certificates this one provides similar benefit with a great deal less code at least in the TLS stack if you happen to have intermediates already available to you you can tell the server by putting the flag in the client below and the server can say ok and just send the end entity certificate I observed that some servers already do this without any signaling so it\u0027s obviously something that\u0027s compatible in some ways and this uses the the flag stuff that we just talked about Victor Victor Mozilla of Google syl.i this is something we did to some extent in the original quick certificate impression oh as in we we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:27",
    "text": "shipped it we shipped the dictionary off known intermediates and you could hotlines a dictionary the question I have is what happens if you receive a response and you don\u0027t have an intermediary do you pay roundtrip penalty do hard fail what they do so there\u0027s a longer discussion about that one that\u0027s going on the thinking is not yet complete on that one if possible but that we could have some sort of guarantee about knowing about intermediates before they used it\u0027s possible that we could have a definitive guarantee essentially that that you have all of the the intermediates and that\u0027s a hard fail scenario if you don\u0027t have any strong guarantee then the fall backs are pretty ugly and may make me reconsider whether I want to pursue this at all so I haven\u0027t chased that one down yet Adam Langley I\u0027m not clear are you suggesting that clients would learn ie on a second connection tell the server hey I probably already got them or is the client just always going to send this and and chase the you know the HTTP links if it needs to so maybe I should should have given you a bit more context on what we\u0027re doing currently there\u0027s an experiment that we\u0027re running in I think I think I might be built where we send clients over time every single intermediate all of them we know about all of them right but well I mean you can get everywhere PKI intermediate but if someone\u0027s using vais this was it this was a discussion I I forget who to credit with this my apologies for that person but the there would be a requirement in this document that\u0027s not there currently to to say that if you have no expert if you have an understanding that the that the trust anchor or the intermediate that you\u0027re using is not in the standard set for the population that you\u0027re sending the requested so so this is a you\u0027re doing an interception proxy and and you want to send the whole chain down you have to ignore this extension so the server will be expected to know that it has a weird chain that\u0027s basically it yep okay does Firefox do way I a chasing no no this is our replacement for that okay as in it won\u0027t be perfectly complete I understand but that was a an explicit decision on our part and we can talk about the policies around AAA chasing and all this sort of both things for a long time Marshall but yeah yeah no problem it is this is a clever idea certainly gets you better compression than having people index event list I think that the real question is how how good is the actual "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:27",
    "text": "synchronization we get lloyd quickly k on to then I suppose you just an experiment which is as you say Firefox already downloads entire and realist in order to we have UAA chasing therefore it\u0027s quite straightforward to see to simulate on this experiment merely by taking every detail every certificate you get in the Internet you ever get um and then any construct in the chain and because heard the chain without putting without putting in Ernie if it gets you if that ever and then and then as long and with appropriate illusion for for things that don\u0027t change lucky I ever at all or fail and then if the answer is those two have exactly the same set or more or less exactly the same successes then this is a good idea if there\u0027s do not have the same set of assesses then you have to like do something else like version your medias that\u0027s just like that so I think like like this is like actually quite quite easy to turn where that\u0027s gonna work or not um by like you know doing taking a month of data or something and then we\u0027ll get some sense of whether is it like did you even plausible yep thanks good evening CloudFlare so speaking for a CDN that adds a lot of certificate chains the server doesn\u0027t necessarily know if the chain is weird so because you know customers can upload their own certificates I love yeah that\u0027s true but I would expect that you would assume that the chains are not weird in the general case II possibly gets you\u0027re operating on the public Internet and I suspect that the the uses for the the weird changes is limited well not necessarily but we do actually have a lot of custom certificates and I\u0027m mostly worried about you know all the weird edge cases where it becomes hard to debug if something goes wrong because maybe someone didn\u0027t update their browsers in a while yeah is so I\u0027m just speculating here but you also have the ability to have every single intermediate known to you and you could determine whether or not those intermediates were more present right but you could scope CT in the same way that we\u0027re doing in prisons I mean we we\u0027ve had problems in the past with clients that didn\u0027t get the latest list or whatever and things broke for sure yep I have a design suggestion since it sounds like you\u0027re shipping a fixed at and you know what\u0027s in so sets have you considered sending the server an indication of what exactly a set of intermediaries you\u0027re operating on yes but I maybe this was hopeful on my part that we wouldn\u0027t have to do that but certainly we\u0027re willing to consider that if the experiment that echo proposes doesn\u0027t quite work out but the problem with that is that the server may not be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:29",
    "text": "able to interpret that information in a meaningful way yeah Reince levy with Google it seems like my colleagues have got a number of things you\u0027ve mentioned like Firefox has a complete set based on CT but CT has a known incomplete set and so I\u0027m just thinking now imaginating multiple clients implementing this and thinking about that ability and interoperability it seems like you would need something like that version right we already see issues with say the trust or selection I\u0027ll share chrome details which is you know chrome running on a platform like Windows you have a variety of trust doors and a client may believe it has a current version of trust or but it turns out it\u0027s not the case and the server has no idea of what that gets so if you\u0027re going to propose this like I\u0027m thinking like let\u0027s let\u0027s imagine that Firefox and Chrome were to implement something like this you would need those clients who update in lockstep with discovering new intermediates and making sure they propagate because if the server believes that it sees this 1 or 0 how does it know dealing with the chrome client that may have it or not have it or Firefox client that may have it or not so the idea of sending some version or some indicator seems highly desirable from an interoperability and it also goes to the processing mode which is if this is willing to fail or cause an RTT this is one of those things that you could possibly avoid with negotiation at the cost of introducing a fingerprinting vector knowledge oh yeah yeah all right thanks Ron just to jump in here I got a I got a clip the line here yeah this is just too much ponder to discuss I imagine it\u0027s real-world deployments right so at the end of the day it\u0027s super valuable dad\u0027s discussion so right it\u0027s yeah so I should have corrected something we do not acquire the intermediates I don\u0027t believe from CT that was probably bit through our group program we require that all intermediates are disclosed to us not technically constrained I think this is that this is the bit that what the Brian\u0027s wagging his hands about you wait am I my cutoff should I said no no no no I\u0027m sorry no more no more no more lots of chicken oh I was simply going to say that ie I\u0027m worried about this because it seems bad for Firefox so I think we\u0027re in the wrong position um let\u0027s say that let\u0027s say that this rolls out and the Mike and servers start doing this and like you don\u0027t always get intermediates chrome does eia chasing and so like servers might do it and everything works everything is great and then like Firefox is on fire down there and can talk to this server anymore I without a I a chasing I think you\u0027re in a bad position and you don\u0027t to do this yeah no okay we we should talk some more about a a chasing and all the wonderful properties that that has yeah III agree as lack of wonderfulness but I okay I mean I would rather put in a fallback in the case of a certificate validation file yet then do AI a chasing at this point and your fallback is to redo the TLS connection with the p-value yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:31",
    "text": "then Schwartz I just want to point out that if you do change this from one bit to you know some identifier four bytes whatever that that says this is my collection of certificates that I can validate against your you know your honor hairs hair\u0027s breadth from a pretty profound change to the tls validation model where instead of the server not knowing what what the web DKI were what DK I said the client has and therefore having to choose one of the common CAS it can the server can can learn the see a set of the client before it chooses what certificate to reply with which has all sorts of the potential of complex effects on on see a selection whole a whole CA ecosystem I think it\u0027s a fascinating yeah intimating here I\u0027m just wondering whether this this is good or bad or just if I don\u0027t know what west heart occur I say speaking in the non HDTV context for once because a lot of it\u0027s been around web focus but this seems like a perfect example for when a Dane client like on the male side for example gets a three one one certificate that should immediately set this bit and you might want to make a suggestion in the document saying then write I do thank you alright so I think there\u0027s definitely some interest but I think there\u0027s maybe a little more discussion that needs to happen you might I don\u0027t know what a score doctrine is also go that\u0027s great thanks and we cut the lines off so Watson sorry next Nancy\u0027s I get a whole extra minute thank you okay I guess I\u0027ll just hold it Mike okay so I will be talking about a topic that was raised by my office and I about 18 months ago and that was with the publication of TLS 1.3 and the deployments there is an impact to the current network security solutions and I don\u0027t mean the exhaustive set of solutions but instead of them that do get impacted today so we put a draft together and given that I only have the five minutes I just wanted to cover them broadly here if you download these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:31",
    "text": "slides and if I do have time I can go through the summary of the use cases and the impact as I put them on the table in the last two slides in this deck but the purpose of here was to say the general goal of the network solutions today as we see them in the different products is effectively to affect and provide the different access controls whether they\u0027re for general access or for the security as well as providing the auditing capabilities and auditing could be for general purposes or for security purposes as well as for compliance and then using some of the information as well as solutions that are specific to providing longer bidding vulnerability as well as threat detection so in essence what we\u0027re trying to cover not trying what we described in the document through the use cases and the deployment scenarios is they need to sometimes introduce the notion of a TLS proxy sometimes has been referred as the middle box those and so what these proxies do is they can do passive or they can do active infection inspection effectively passively what they do is they observe the TLS metadata to be able to affect some of the policies that we have categorized these usage policies for their business compliances you will if you will and then to affect the access control so from a monitoring auditing and the security control functions it\u0027s not that the TLS proxy or the middle box is there all of the time to inspect the data all of the time but it can actually be taken to action depending on the initial passive inspection if you will so with the solutions that are in deployment today and with the introduction of TLS 1.3 there are some impacts and effects that occur given some of the changes that are introduced in the TLS 1.3 handshake so the document and the draft is there here\u0027s the link to it it\u0027s an individual submission about a year ago I guess I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:33",
    "text": "brought it to the TLS thread we received a lot of feedback we\u0027re now in version 4 so I appreciate all of the feedback good a negative to improve on the draft we haven\u0027t received any feedback since until today so at that point we thought that the draft was stable enough that my goal in here was to try to start the process if you will to see if we can publish this as an informational RFC so I realize it\u0027s not quite in the Charter but it is in the TLS scope if you will because it is documenting the impacts of the TOS 2003 on the deployments as we know them today so that was the original ask there has been some new additions and comments that we can address but I think the goal is for us to still seek interest in publication so I will leave it at that we have one person into my client now we have more people and I\u0027m just real quickly I\u0027m show of hands here who\u0027s actually read this draft more than all the other dress Wow okay all right let\u0027s go I hope this is an easy question how is this different than one sentence from the ETLs sorry from enterprise TLS dancy to be honest with you I\u0027m not personally familiar with ETLs my co-author is here too so i will see i will ask fleming if he\u0027s familiar we\u0027re not we were trying to stick to what the standard is about and document it based on the standards yeah please very soft hi Steven bro so I\u0027m not clear if you\u0027re asking for this to be adopted by the TLS working group or you want to go to the independent stream or what and I have follow-up questions well let I\u0027m asking the general question because there has been interest when we started the thread at the time it was it\u0027s not in the working group charter it seems like there are effects to the design and the implications of the one that to me so in essence I\u0027m asking the group if there is interest I can express active disinterest I think this would be a waste of time to try and turn into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:33",
    "text": "consensus text because we just as was I guess area reflected wasting loads of time rehashing old Rams and I think this is pointless but what by all means go to your dependents frame and talk to the antenna stream editor if that\u0027s a really attempt for one more question by the way I support youth discussing this topic I think it\u0027s important people are already vendors already announcing bypasses to tell us 1.3 I think as engineers we need to deal with the reality of the situation and not some kind of idealized politically correct world can we have questions about the draft I mean so I\u0027ve read the draft I think it is different it DTL assume that this just lists the use cases that are currently impacted by TLS 1.3 and the draft has been stable since 104 accepted today so I don\u0027t see that it\u0027s generated already a lot of dissent and maybe that would change but based on how many people have read the draft it does seem like it has a sufficient interest so I would like to see it progress as an informational draft and I think someone said it was pointless but I think there is a point to publishing it then are you jumping in line thank you are you ahead of me better just in a place it\u0027s so like if we want to publish something from the TLS working group or us I think a tech responsible ad which is why I\u0027m cutting if we\u0027re gonna publish something from the tls women group or something the ietf stream we have to have ITF consensus about what it says and I could imagine writing a document that says here are some things that people do and they don\u0027t work anymore and we could probably write a document like that and we could probably write get consensus about that but it\u0027s really hard to go from a document that says here are some things that don\u0027t work anymore saying we wish we could still do these things and once we make that step I think it becomes extremely hard to get ITF consensus and even being of what Stephen was saying you would be waste a lot of people\u0027s time on the other hand I hope you think it\u0027s really valuable to document that people are doing this and that doesn\u0027t work anymore and it kind of feels to me like the independent streams are really great hunger that\u0027s sorry I can\u0027t hear you so it kind of feels to me that the independent stream is a very good phone for this I feel a little bit sad you know we don\u0027t have to say the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:33",
    "text": "ITF has looked at this and you know we we understand that these are things that people are doing and they don\u0027t work anymore but it it\u0027s really hard to see that it\u0027s gonna be a fruitful youssef people\u0027s time to try and get that to happen in the ITF stir it so um the intent and that the intent in the draft was not to make insinuation that I wish we weren\u0027t doing this it was merely to document this is the impact of what\u0027s happening today so if that\u0027s how I mean it so if that\u0027s what you want to try to do I think yeah take another look at the draft from that starting point and I suggest some text changes please I mean and so again the intent is to document the impact it\u0027s not meant to be the you have to change one that three it\u0027s just this is what is going to happen just from a documentation standpoint and to raise the awareness right okay thank you for clarifying yeah thanks so we\u0027re at a time now folks Oh Peter nine then I go 30 seconds yeah arrow scroll up I mean III don\u0027t think we should take this up and tell us um this is like gonna be an incredible you can in just negotiation about the contents of this document on the ice panic number I\u0027ve said any other comments I appreciate you tried to incorporate them but I don\u0027t actually think adequately um um and I think that\u0027s partly because we actually don\u0027t agree about what the situation is um and I just understand how that\u0027s gonna be I get you school UCITS times this is like a great independent opportunity alright so I\u0027m gonna take the chairs prerogative here we\u0027re out of time I just want to tell people that you know it\u0027s difficult to be the chair when people come to these things because all roads that are TLS related come to us first so they pretty much have to come to us whether you like it or not that\u0027s how it works so when they come here and they ask and then they get pushed back and eaze happen it\u0027s it\u0027s clear to me that there would be some dissension if we were to adopt this as a working group draft the best thing to do like the other times is to try to talk to Ben to figure out what to do okay um I don\u0027t think I\u0027m gonna try to take a home for working group here their adoption or not we\u0027re just gonna proceed and go to the social and all have a great time thank you yes thank you thanks for I\u0027m sorry I cut the lines and I did the chair prerogative thing but I think we\u0027re out of time Thanks sorry "
  }
]