[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "don\u0027t be such a way to they take in their current laser frequency much and most of these huge I found you a minute taker no fear helps friend of ours first an idea it immediately becomes part of the machine yeah about half of your cooking some of your money good afternoon welcome to the cider ops meeting at IETF 105 we\u0027re in Montreal it\u0027s not even cold okay is it okay that\u0027s right it\u0027s cold inside not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "outside okay I\u0027m Chris that\u0027s care that\u0027s Joe over there helping out yeoman\u0027s work we have a we have a note-taker we also have the watch more collet note well note-taker we I think we need a jabber scribe still does somebody want to jabber and I don\u0027t meet at the mic Gary I thought you not it no aha okay Warren we\u0027ll Jever all right so before we go through the a Obi and I know somebody\u0027s gonna stand up and get off my business for those people that speak at the mic please thank you very much good example the thingy has a pointy pointy on it you can point like this there\u0027s a thing in front of you so you don\u0027t have to do this because also this is rude all right Oh is there any other business that you would like to discuss that we can add to the agenda may I add one item certainly depending on the item the item is about diversity diversity diversity diver I\u0027m sorry about my boom Tish what\u0027s the only other half the internet we care about yes why don\u0027t we do that as soon as mr. Bush is done with his time fantastic thank you thank you very much okay we have these four other presenters and mr. mandersohn will be a little squeezed on time I think so everybody should keep it short draft status as it says the documentation all these slides by the way are in the meeting material so you can go down to that and could go to town a couple of things were moved from the IHC processing to editors queue that\u0027s the towel and the router King draft and we added some ASPA stuff and the valve editing BGP speaker that we\u0027re still working on all right yeah sigh it\u0027s awesome okay so go back Alexander oh you should also feel free to either hold the mic or use the little thingy stand not smile slides oh this is my slits okay my name is a reason does enough work for Yandex and today I\u0027m going to provide you a very short update on his PA trots so just to quickly remind remind you what our ASP so this day is also a system provider authorization so but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "it\u0027s P is much shorter so it\u0027s a new application object-- then it can be used to detect leaks and hijacks malicious and mistakes it is it works outside of BGP itself so it doesn\u0027t change the protocol and of course it can be optimized with bgp roles but it\u0027s out of scope so right here is the change log first of all good news the drafts were adopted by these working group and i hope that it will boost the process of working on this document and it seems this i was right so since recent discussion in the main at least was quite fruitful and previously we were stated that SBA can be used to verify ice paths that are received from customers and peers so now we have extended the way SP can be used and so you can now also verify paths that are received from customers we are not speaking here about forged ice part but we are speaking about mistake mistake root leaks and it is quite useful feature since all other drafts that are targeted around leak detection are not capable to detect leaks on an customer side which also made a universe rule for what we should do with anomalies so it must be all anomalies hijacks root leaks must be rejected I will go in the intro details further later sorry and so let\u0027s get some details so there is a some text there I which I will go over with youth and so it will not look such complicated so if s speaking about the prefixes that I received from customer or by customer from provider or exam from Ike\u0027s it may have to subpaths the down the upstream part when prefix is traveling from customer to provide and so on so on and downstream path when prefix is traveling down from provider to customer and so on the connection can be a single autonomous system number it can be appearing link it can be a transparent eyes but anyway the first downstream link will will have invalid outcome according to ASP a verification procedure so in this exact example example r3 is leaking as one is taking transit from ice to s3 taking transit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "from both eyes to and I is for ice five straight a contrasting from ice form so I hope it will be clear so according to his be verification procedure the outcome from verification of ice 2 and R 3 is invalid as soon as we are going through first downstream link all concern downstream leaks the links that we can find after that in the path will must be also provided to customers otherwise it\u0027s a leak so to verify this but we found that is to in ice 3 is invalid and after this we check is for in the ice 3 it\u0027s very important to check as find ice 3 instead of ice 3 and is for because otherwise we are eaten in problems with siblings and so if we have these two in reddit the result is that the in the downstream sub path there is some supper there is a sequence which goes up so it surrounded so I understand it may sound a bit difficult but in reality it\u0027s a very easy to code and I have already already dropped a piece of code in the main at least you can take a look at it so maybe in words it\u0027s harder to understand then in the piece of code so the second thing is universe policy for anomalies previously we try to treat different layer hijacks and root leaks we had good intent we believed that it\u0027s in some cases root leaks may pass by because maybe it\u0027s a good thing maybe it\u0027s the only path to the originator but since we\u0027re talking not only about mistakes we\u0027re also talking about forged a cubes of the malicious activity the receiver cannot distinguish if it was it is receiving a prefix that was leaked by a mistake or if it\u0027s a receiving F forged eyes party which is a hijack but I spats most of us modified to look like a leak so with this in mind we we cannot distinguish leaks and ice and hijacks from the receiver side and the only policy that can be applicable here is draw all anomalies that can be detected with ASP so what do we learn next we\u0027re planning to make some proof of concept in the lab we haven\u0027t yet decided how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:12",
    "text": "do it we are still in discussion at this moment point we need to bomb the version of our TR protocol unfortunately it\u0027s not extendable to it be Jews without increasing the version number and it seems this if we don\u0027t find any great security flaws in the design we need nearly ready for working group Moscow any questions I see rue Daguerre it is nearly going to ask a question job Snyder\u0027s entity why did you put the deprecated asset configuration set reference on this slide it\u0027s a good question it\u0027s a my question to you to the working group so because it\u0027s for a proper ice path of diversification we cannot verify hiset segments because they are unordered and if we want to get rid of malicious activity that may happen in BGP we need to get rid of Isis and that\u0027s why it\u0027s here and that\u0027s why I\u0027m like to another to learn what\u0027s happening with this draft and if there is anybody willing to push it forward to finally get reach of the highest sets because from the security perspective we are relying on this piece of the document and I know that the authors of these dolphins are here I mean that\u0027s been sitting around for a long time that document and mainly Shri Rama had been bumping the version number every now and then what we decided at some point was and Randy and I had started working on this and then I got sidetracked again but we\u0027d started another document which deprecates ASX and atomic aggregate from BGP v4 we hadn\u0027t hadn\u0027t actually got as far as publishing a version of that but that seemed like would be a much better thing to actually do it turns out doing that requires all sorts of updates to BGP like lots of remove this text add this text marry this text add this text and then yeah I got a little sidetracked I mean if it\u0027s really a useful we could look at it again and Randy might have more to say but from a state perspective if it will have something that will already a little state that ice I said are deprecated we\u0027ll be able to say that if we see an I said for example apply the same policies for the hijacks it leaks and just drop it I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:12",
    "text": "believe the current version is basically like ready if somebody wanted to adopt it and do something with it but honestly I haven\u0027t touched it and like you know a year or something two years yeah I see fear on either life through damp mist I just want to add that there\u0027s a version of it which is already a BCP and then we wanted to convert it to a standards track so hopefully the BCP is helpful somewhat in the meantime but we can work on it to see if we can push it through instant extract as well wait I will be glad to see if these piece of work will be finally adopted and to end up with our sisters if nothing else happens as far as I can tell the interesting construct only occurs at the very end of a path you\u0027re speaking about this thing no no no no no no the is set and the way it usually is constructed is not relevant here at all and if nothing else happens one would need to check that yes it only can happen at the end and then you could essentially just use the regular path for whatever is happening here assume assume that the first regular AAS that shows up in the path and the set is hidden behind it to be the origin and you are fine because all all the tricky stuff that is happening inside the AAS set doesn\u0027t well okay does absolutely not fit into this model anyway and it doesn\u0027t matter yes I do agree with you but there\u0027s a moment sure that the certification doesn\u0027t say anything about if we can if I said in the middle of this ice bath is well it are invented so to walk or to fight forged ice path we should avoid at least I set in the middle of middle I do agree ok and I\u0027ve as far as I have observed them they never were somewhere in the middle and there is a good reason for that yeah yes well okay yeah all okay unfortunately I don\u0027t have I\u0027d well okay yes let me let me put it into a question [Applause] what it\u0027s improve the understanding of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:16",
    "text": "the old thing if we did a part in the documents that essentially reveals the concept of what is signed in the in VA in VA SBA\u0027s the complex asn.1 use typically typically confuses people who don\u0027t need to work with it and i think i think that the conceptual data structure that is transmitted there and what what it\u0027s supposed semantics are could be exposed much better and i somewhat assume actually the structure will after the will the the encoding might actually change to adapt it closer to a concept that\u0027s being that\u0027s being used are you speaking about is zero no yeah well okay what what is the concept that is being used you are coding a sets of a SS and you are doing some strange trick in case you want to code an empty set and kind of why why not why not actually explain this and then code like it I remember that we had this question discussed we discussed privately so my idea when I was writing its introducing ic0 was I was taking a look it\u0027s raw document and just taking its design to look similar so obvious row 0 and we have a space here oh I\u0027m not saying the edge is yeah all okay but the qualifier the final solution but anyway it\u0027s it\u0027s very simple and from perspective of the coding tools it doesn\u0027t really matter you know do you have sets or do you have separate records from the implementation side it\u0027s nearly the same kind of going to configure it by yourself all all metals all met all small matters of coding agreed for making people understand what they are supposed to do and why things work well kind of coding complications can be an obstacle and yes I also I also have another now unhidden "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:16",
    "text": "agenda if we actually are coding sets of a SS that means that during the time the standard is de is being developed and codes an implementation and deployment follows over a couple of months actually the concept could be used by people who agree on how to code in other ways that are already available the sets of a SS to actually to actually use the the technique kind of essentially immediately yeah but anyway generating for example using ice pass filtering using wildcards you will anyway end up with some generator of your configuration I\u0027m pretty sure that you will not use click it you can click on generate and so it doesn\u0027t should not really matter if you are working with a set Vaughn a set of tuples the the issue here is much less the coding which may be slightly easier or while okay it doesn\u0027t matter and I completely agree that yes completely hand coding stuff is out of the question but making making the concept that is used transparent to users actually actually is valuable because ok of course with a little bit of coding the user interface can also present concepts that are kind of hidden in what\u0027s happening underneath but that does not that does not really help ok ok kind of kind of kind of for details offline discussion quite obviously make sense so thank you really good for our comments a really quick question sorry about him if you take es conflicts out do you want to propose what should be done if an es conferred is encounter so is it simply ignore it and go to the next AAS in this a sequence if we\u0027re speaking about protection against malicious activity approached I said in the middle of the path just nibble eighths all kinds of protection because it will end up that you are able to create a forged ice bath in certain situations so at the moment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:16",
    "text": "the draft suggests to treat pass with ice set like it sweets hijacks and leagues all right thank you um yeah a question or clarification because on a check that my understanding is correct laughs so in my understanding the semantics here are similar to what you have an origin validation in the sense that you would argue to drop in ballots so if there\u0027s anything verifiably invalid but when things are unknown that\u0027s okay yes right okay because the text in the document seemed to say something about treating unverifiable things with some suspicion and I\u0027m not sure that that\u0027s right there is difference between unverifiable and unknown and verifiable is exactly introduced for Isis well unknown is for ice baths so the ice bath even returns I think well it\u0027s in case of so there is a purification there is three outcomes valid invalid unknown for ice bath verification procedure it should be valid invalid and algorithm so the unknown will be wedded right okay that clarifies thank you so I think if I come to I will check that it is clearly stated and maybe somewhat related that we can also talk about that offline but there is an es who makes a statement here a signed statement and I asked earlier like maybe we should think about how to to make that object because what I\u0027m look for what I\u0027m thinking of as a missus a year if there\u0027s an SMAS I make a statement maybe I run one object signed by a yes that has everything in it to ensure that I see the complete policy that\u0027s applicable here and not risk that there are issues with a bunch of objects where some of them are being published and withdrawn and so that may be something to think about because it would row us that\u0027s different because there if you put multiple prefixes on a single row and one of the prefixes goes away then the object becomes invalid but if this is signed by only one a s then you don\u0027t have that problem so you may want to think about that I\u0027m not sure that a properly gets your question let\u0027s discuss it\u0027s out of line yes what I\u0027m buying is that maybe if one a s makes a statement or a bunch of statements they can put them all in one object but it can be single areas may create objects only for either originating out on system number so you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:16",
    "text": "are creating objects for your providers you can make it create more objects but anyway your great your objects only for your providers so what I\u0027m implying is that as AAS who is signing I could put all those statements on a single object so there\u0027s no risk that when I publish things you miss things because you know it\u0027s still being processed and it\u0027s partially published itself so it\u0027s not a big deal but you know maybe something to think about okay okay thank you Geoff Huston look I\u0027m not sure that actually need a single object the underlying constraint is if you sign one of your adjacencies you need to sign all of your adjacencies okay how can I be adjacent to an AS set and what might it look like and this is this sort of weird thing where you\u0027re cutting out I need a guess it\u0027s deprecated but I actually don\u0027t even understand how if I\u0027m signing all my adjacencies how I can sign myself as adjacent and is set within your construct and maybe that just simply finesses out the entire issue of ASAS because I can\u0027t be adjacent to one unless a whole bunch of other work is done to define what I\u0027m adjacent to so if I sign all my adjacencies and you see a park with me adjacent to one of these a assets I think that\u0027s a dud you know straight away Thanks I\u0027d like to stay just one saw one more time no problem with I sit in the in the bath is the PISA this it is unordered it\u0027s not it\u0027s not the number so it doesn\u0027t matter it just doesn\u0027t matter I\u0027m like you\u0027re inside an environment where when maybe you get a path until you reach some gold and healthy and day that\u0027s never going to happen that everyone signs stuff you\u0027re gonna have to do partials yeah and if you\u0027re doing partials no one\u0027s going to be incorporating if I\u0027m if I do my signing I\u0027m never adjacent to a set the problem just goes away that\u0027s what I\u0027m suggesting Chris you can have the time I\u0027m not sure that I fully get your idea I will try to reach your later thank you quick Chad much Akamai I don\u0027t know how many ASI Jason sees I have it\u0027s actually an unknown it\u0027s an unanswerable question for me so I I don\u0027t know I wouldn\u0027t even have a way to sign something to say who I chase it with because I fear with things like route servers so I have very many unknown es adjacencies just for my backbone a s but how many upstream providers do have we are not speaking about signing all adjacencies when speaking about only signing your IP transit providers it is still a little bit indeterminate that I might be able "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:17",
    "text": "to answer but some of the people the agreement it looks like peering but it may actually be more like transit so sometimes the source relationships are a little bit fuzzy we\u0027re not trying to define complex business relations the only thing that a speii does is if you create a record you are just be meeting what is called provider to send your prefixes to up streams or peers and so on you are free for example not to pay me to one of your providers to send prefixes you can do it it\u0027s it\u0027s up to you so the the core idea is that yes you never know you all your agencies is because of transparent access it\u0027s not possible but to list your providers I think 99% of eyespace in the world will be capable to do it okay there\u0027s a much a conversation that probably needs to go on the mailing list for this I think would be a lot of help more helpful Daniel so I would like to present to you our draft again I have been at the last ITF meeting at Prague so this time I will give you an update and we would like to go for last call soon to finish this draft so this is about how to use rpki validation at route servers and how to forward the result to the peers so the draft is around 4:00 already about three years more than three years and they have been some substantial changes inside like edit modes of operation how to do it at a route server and how to forward result appears so the last feedback from the ITF 104 is basically about which community to use and which mode of operation to run at default the motivation for this draft was basically to have something like our C 1897 which says how to forward época validation results in interior PGP so at X piece we have some kind of similar situation we run kind of a more trusted environment to the peers and it\u0027s natural for ex piece to forward some information with with routes for example where the route has been learned from how far like what\u0027s the round-trip time to the drought things like that so we would like to do the same with rpki protect result of a PKI onto the road so that would be makes sense to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:18",
    "text": "routing positions for monitoring troubleshooting maintenance or just to record it to have educational or to do some research about it so just to get a picture on how it works some of you already know it we get an prefix from for example a SD that goes into a route server there are servers doing all its usual checks also doing our D check see if the prefixes valid for the a s if it\u0027s an is a a set and additionally this time it will also do our PK validation then it can have different modes for example it can drop the prefix right away or it can just forward the prefixes and take the state the result of the state onto the route to the to the neighbors and then it should go to the neighbors but the neighbors shouldn\u0027t redistribute this to others it\u0027s just the idea to have this at the domain of the IXP so technically we now changed from an extended community to a large community because this has been feedback from the last ITF meeting and it\u0027s now our standard so basically it would be we would have the habilitation um status at the last field which would be like zero for if it\u0027s a valid prefix one if it\u0027s not found it\u0027s unknown or two if it\u0027s an invalid prefix we would also have the function of function specific number to signal the desist a PKI prefix validation community and we would have the ASN of the of the XP for example that is distributing this validation result inside the route server that would have there would be different modes of operation available the first node would be to just tag the result that routes of a processed on to order out and distributed to the peers the second mode of operation would be to drop all invalid prefixes and just forward valid ones and unknowns so this would be now the default mode of operation and is basically like what is done today at severai expand the third mode would be to to drop prefixes with invalid and unknown but basically do the best path selection after dead saw that valid routes would remain like on top of all errors operational recommendations in the draft is that peers that receive the result should not redistribute it to a DA is ends if a route server is receiving such a community from from a peer it should strip it so that it will not redistribute other checks then was also common is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:18",
    "text": "that if the very origin relation fails at a route server the community should be admitted there should be no community and then if there\u0027s multiple validation results for appear if it receives multiple validation results the validation was art with the highest values should be should be taken that would be two for invalid for example so it\u0027s the most secure way to do it so comments from the last meeting have been that we shouldn\u0027t or there should be a mechanism to a signal if the validation could be performed throughout server and we have this now and operational recommendations to admit the community tech at the route server then one comment was that the draft has been overtaken by reality which means that now more and more XP s already drop in billets but I see it like this that things of the draft are now already implemented kind of and we also define the communities to tag on and also if you go for example to the looking class you can see at some ISPs that are already using communities you can\u0027t just see that you don\u0027t see it on your router but you see that internally there are servers already using these communities then we had a discussion about extended and large communities we now resided in favor for large communities there was always the concern of outsourcing security that means that you are giving like the security there is a decision to the route server but this is some some trade-off that appears doing anyway it is peace and there\u0027s kind of a trusted relationship and then also discussion was always to drop envelopes by default which we know it up did in the draft yeah so with this I\u0027m open to more comments and as I said we would like to finish this draft fairly soon that Montgomery but back one slide what\u0027s the scenario where you get to validation results it was like the last bullet of the previous slide yeah the last point here when what\u0027s the scenario and when you win this if your router is maybe peering with different route servers and there\u0027s - giving you different different results of the validation for a prefix so let me try there\u0027s two route servers at Dax I appear with both of them they happen to be unsynched with their perspective of the rpki data one says valid one says unknown what should I do yeah that would be like a failure scenario yeah that true well okay but these would be two different routes and actually figuring out that you have two routes with different communities I\u0027m not aware of any of the currently available configuration language to have appropriate policy language I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:18",
    "text": "we\u0027ve talked about this before but not in this context you have no guarantee that the highest value of highest is valid I think that was why your youth you have no guarantee they write it\u0027s the more recent data right okay time time wise I don\u0027t know but basically if it would be at the same time and you should favor the higher value I wasn\u0027t suggesting a race condition I\u0027m saying the idea that you choose the one with the more favorable validation result isn\u0027t a sign that you\u0027re choosing the one that has the more up-to-date rpki information right it things could be effectively degrading yeah it would be in favor from security I think in this case I think that\u0027s I think Doug your point is that as the data and the RPI is changing over time I may choose to validate I may choose to authorize you to do this route today and job tomorrow and not you tomorrow and if the data at the to different route servers is in a state where one has the old data you and the other one has the good the new data job I certainly don\u0027t want to accept the route with you in it anymore can i injecting sense or abortionist we made an awful lot of tests last year about that and you can have the following situation let\u0027s assume you have a route on the East Coast and you have a router on the west coast and they exchange their data and they have the same path those who have two different validation caches I don\u0027t know which of the validation cache has more up-to-date data it might be that the one that resorts a novella is more up-to-date than the one that has the other result it also might be that the one vision in Belet has more up-to-date data than the one with a valid so I cannot say just because I think out of security because it might be a security that caused a certain prefix to be all of a sudden venit so what now okay I take this as a good comment photographed thank you job Snyder\u0027s and CT in the case of failure in the original foundation process for instance how do you how do you define failure of the original foundation process because for instance if the cache is empty policy will dictate that all of them become unknown and then omitting the community is a force signal in this conflict that contradicts with what we understand that unknowns are or not found so we cannot differentiate I think between a failure in the urgent validation process or the absence of a validation process yeah I see this problem as well and then a second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:18",
    "text": "comment if the default is to reject invalids maybe you should remove the well-known invalids community and then only two communities are left the unknowns and valid and at that point I kind of wonder what the use case is because I I think it\u0027s not very valuable and you should reconsider the words that we can trust each other at an internet exchange I fully agree from a commercial incentive if I were working for an internet exchange but we in the transit world say transit is what you trust okay so you shouldn\u0027t yet you sought service or John Scudder now that you explained what the last bullet means I would like to agree with rüdiger that one route has one validation state it doesn\u0027t make sense to talk about having multiple validation states for a route and as as I understand I have I would need to go and I haven\u0027t looked at this version of the draft so I don\u0027t know what the normative language is but it sounds to me like that should just be removed because it doesn\u0027t make sense to say their route has two different validations days it only has one and it\u0027s the one that the route server told me alright thank you Randy push hi Jamarcus oh I have problems with the trust nozzle also but that\u0027s been beaten to death um why you switched which tomorrow day confuses me we already have a well then one and Burton Lee not well-known one but a well-defined one um but basically as you\u0027ll see the real problem that\u0027s expressed in the original validation signaling graph which you\u0027ll get to hear about boringly later is that saying the community gets to my router but then what they\u0027re like German if it\u0027s invalid okay and the problem is that I want to cause withdrawal and we haven\u0027t quite got the route map semantics for that yeah the community was changed because of the comments from the last meeting so I understood that this is the right way to go and the default thing that is also done at route servers so otherwise I understood that if we want to have extended communities like it\u0027s done with the ibgp draft you have to implement all the policies and we have to wait like 10 years so yeah we thought is this the way to go all right normal comments all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:26",
    "text": "right thank you thank you very much Tim believe it is your turn find your aha whoopsy quick thing let me make this to go to fullscreen yeah all right yeah Tim Burgess and on that laughs I\u0027m going to talk about this graph which is actually not a last call as far as I know but it is on the Status pages I think that\u0027s because HDS intell\u0027s was in law school so it would be nice to rectify that because this is not finished so goals still this is similar to the slide deck after that it presented two meetings ago where I said shall we call it done but still no dome and I\u0027ll get back to that in a bit actually but let\u0027s first look at the goals so we want to allow for key roles in the RPI there are many reasons why but this might be useful I used to work for write and CC where I was operating a trust anchor and we have done the lock-in which regards to an HSM so that\u0027s just one of the reasons why this might be useful for relying parties it\u0027s important to learn about these things currently there\u0027s no way except for somehow offline in learning about a new trust anchor locator and including it maybe when you update or your implementation you get a new tell with that update but it\u0027s not very well defined so we also want to learn from experience in the DNS we like to have a way for this to be done that you know lands well into the existing standards so it works well with what\u0027s out there finally leave it\u0027s real for our data clients what I mean by that is that if you have a piece of software that has aids for sync on locator in its so that\u0027s it would be the way your your relying party tool finds the current certificate well if that\u0027s our data it would be very nice that you can follow a trail to the current set up thrust anchors that should be applicable so it was a major Commons on version 2 in Singapore which is when is it safe when do you know that you can actually drop lucky so changes in three are well I hope that the text is more clear I could ask your first show of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:28",
    "text": "hands who actually try to read it no yeah okay great well I will go through the phases here on this my deck as well actually but they try to make the document a bit more clear but regards to what\u0027s going on I mean we\u0027re starting from a situation but none of this is applicable how do you start use this and how do you then do it use it to make a a role in a plan direction how do you use it to make a role in long blimp plans of direction that\u0027s it and as mentioned back in Singapore as well the draft now uses distinct your eyes for where you can retrieve the TA certificates in an attempts to help figure out how many people are actually learning about this stuff and how many people support the standard if it becomes wrong now the objects this is say someone this may be bit painful for people but essentially it says that there has to be one or more current keys the current key is defined as a sequence of or a sequence of certificate Euron so it\u0027s bunch of your eyes and subject public key info and in fact that\u0027s exactly the same information as you find on a tell file what an ace and 1d are formats rather than via text you can also have zero or more revoked keys so current situation you have none of this right you have the trust and can locate a faulty a text file it contains a bunch of your eyes and the the subject of key info of a tracker certificate so relying party uses that to fetch a certificate verifies it and it goes off a way to introduce this in the phase one let\u0027s say is at a or what we call a tech foul to confuse tall UNTAC less I suppose where a signed object has a reference a URI to a location where that\u0027s ranked a certificate is signed and the same subject public info now when a relying party two runs they will encounter this and the text in the document can he says or when you learn about these signed statements you should use the information in there to replace what ya had obtained earlier from the clear text value were using now if you used different your eyes for both them as an operator you can learn where people fetch things so you can also understand somehow how many people would be able to you know follow its rail let\u0027s say so that\u0027s the more significant change I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:28",
    "text": "think in this version of the document if you go on though o completeness you can then add a new key have new tag files as a call referencing both keys you could have tell files for both entry points that say but probably if you in terms to roll to key to here you might want to reach out to relying party software to include that in the distribution or you could actually technically even have a discussion about you know using the design format in in that respect then going further you can roll to a third key and revoke the first one off all the wrongs in here and I\u0027m not sure that I yeah we can have a discussion about this you will want but I did present this before let me take away here is that I can revoke that first key on the tech file over the second I don\u0027t need to do that on the third because people who learn about the third key will have already learned about the verification of the first by looking at a second the reason that\u0027s that complication is there is because I\u0027d like to avoid having to have a long trail of what are all the previous revoked keys we could still include that but you know it might make the object bigger than is strictly necessary so the document actually distinguishes two ways here you could say okay we want to revoke he one so a TA here or you could say well actually the one that we just introduced is no longer good and it would technically look the same from a a blind party point of view both current keys are just treated equally as current essentially and either key can revoke all the others now the documents actually allows for any number of keys and this is another question I think I have for the group as well well that leaves the the makes a document flexible I think it also makes it more complicated and strictly necessary if we could constrain this to scenarios where you only have ever have two keys that might may make things a lot simpler so that may be well worth it now then what\u0027s next well well other ways that I thought I included something but no it\u0027s in my mind actually wanna do real proof of concepts work on this and I happened to do that earlier but I didn\u0027t get around to it I\u0027m still busy with some other things but arenal to get there because I don\u0027t feel confident you know going asking for law school on this unless I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:29",
    "text": "have running code that proves that okay we can do a roll we can do a roll where we went on with our intent we do overall where we figured no distant key is no longer good and I want to verify that you know following it Phil actually works so even though it takes longer I would rather you know do it well then rush it and I\u0027m not entirely sure that I can form as when I\u0027ll get to it but you know say it is update that\u0027s where I want to go so question to the chairs I suppose would be please get rid of the status last call because I don\u0027t think it\u0027s there and to anybody else I mean if you have comments ideas concerns like you know an old friend here please speak up can be here can be in the hallways on the main list or wherever or if you want to help test that\u0027s also great of course so without hey Eric Australia coach Mason University so I think this is really good I really like the approach you\u0027ve taken and also the fact that you\u0027re highlighting a problem that I think exists in DNS SEC among other places where understanding what a key role is is proving to be very difficult because it wasn\u0027t very clear when the protocol is designed that key role is a really a big thing it\u0027s more than just sticking a key out there using it and then seeking a new key out there and using it you know they actually wind up having a relationship to each other after they\u0027ve been cycled out and whether they\u0027re still valid they become replay vulnerabilities I think there\u0027s a lot of like thinking through are you rolling forward or you\u0027re rolling backward and how do you actually represent that that I think you I like the fact that you\u0027re going to do a lot of analysis I think you might also sort of think through what are the various states that the resource is going to be in as keys change and whether keys exist in you rolled forward backward and coming with the taxonomy for that I\u0027d be happy to work with you if you want sure Randy Bush IJ anarchists Oh like um like well enough that would like to see early security reviews and suggest the chairs go find some friends over there yes Bravo Stein arcus uh to your question about without you can simplify but getting rid of some of those infinite light sequences given you\u0027re talking about prototyping at first which i think is a highly advisable thing li but it\u0027s open-ended sequences for now and if it turns out you don\u0027t actually need all those slots then you turn them because we\u0027ve been seeing all kinds of entertaining things lately with people\u0027s pushing things that were not envisioned as more than three entries up to ten thousand let\u0027s see what happens marcin iris and she she the dutch one that\u0027s so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:34",
    "text": "you just talked about keys being able to revoke other keys and what that\u0027s your security conservation says that currently any key can revoke any other key so i was thinking about this too and i\u0027m wondering if you want to roll a key because you are not sure that it\u0027s safe anymore for example that\u0027s the property you\u0027re looking for and i don\u0027t know what the property is that you\u0027re looking for but yeah this basically made me question how that that works so in the i noted in the last working group that they tried to get some of the academic formal proof groups look at some parts of the protocol I\u0027m wondering if that\u0027s useful to be trying to do here with the the P key a bit to try and understand if the property here looking for are provided by the functionality you\u0027re modeling and I\u0027m not sure if if anyone\u0027s willing and able to do that but I guess it\u0027s this is a time where you can easily fix oversight so just questions I suppose ya know well thank you for for pointers because you know speaking for myself I\u0027m just making this up and hoping it you know it works so I can definitely use good advice sorry I should keep it a consistent distance so but in terms of what we had in mind is well one of the thoughts is that if you have an HSM you\u0027re usually well protected against key theft let\u0027s say but you may still want to do plans rules because you know you want to change however or but you can still use a key as well in particular like if you use card sets or people to protect key one then you know you may not have a quorum anymore and you may still have that one for key - and you don\u0027t know for sure that it\u0027s going to go that direction so those are some of the concerns here about you know why do this at the same time if you a lot of this relies on operational procedures about how you manage your keys right because in theory of course if you have multiple keys and they can all revoke each other then you just need to have you know own one of these keys to wreak havoc and clearly that that can introduce you know bigger security risks so I think there\u0027s a trade-off here and you know I\u0027m not sure that I have only all the answers but I\u0027m hoping that the use of hsn\u0027s will actually help in this regard and strong processes but I don\u0027t think having this is enough you need you need to have all kinds of our know especially processors I think your your slide sparked my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:35",
    "text": "thought because you mentioned just now that you didn\u0027t want to revoke key one with keep with package two and three so that made me think about this so if you don\u0027t want like the newest key to revoke then maybe it doesn\u0027t have to be able to or well so you think about that kind of property well if you referring to the one where I said only key to needs to revoke key one that was mainly because you and only need to learn about key ones revocation ones and so that was an attempt to stop you know the object from becoming really huge if you you know theoretically to do dozens of these roles last two questions then we\u0027ll lose the next sandy Murphy Parsons I\u0027m standing at the far mic because I\u0027m asking a question from a position of ignorance and in case you want to throw things I have been impressed at the amount of effort it took to do the DNS SEC key role so this is a really good idea to get an early start on considering here and so thank you very much for starting the work I also remember the difficulties that there was in the site of working group to define the algorithm change documents from very long ago so what happens if your key role is also an algorithm role I don\u0027t know okay Boston orcas again um I haven\u0027t reread this recently so I don\u0027t know if you\u0027ve already covered it - my apologies but one of the things that was a consideration that they\u0027re already taking a little bit of speaking from what I think Mike st. John\u0027s was intending with the RC 5011 for DNS SEC was the ability to pre publish keys before really using them and that\u0027s basically because no one really knows how to do an emergency key role an emergency key role for real and unplanned one he\u0027s basically burned it to the ground and start over which kind of sucks so what you do instead is an accelerated schedule planned key role which kind of requires you get the the four to work well you need to get the next key out there early part the reason I bringing this up now is the question about whether or not there really should be some ordering in these keys so that you can\u0027t have you know the older one revoke the new one we probably want to put that into the bucket while we\u0027re thinking this through I think they\u0027re all good questions I\u0027m just not sure what the answer is yet fair enough all right thank you very much next up is mr. Bush let\u0027s see right away didn\u0027t run "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:37",
    "text": "away ha ha you tell me which one would you like to do that one or that one don\u0027t care whatever comes up you know what you got the old yep with the wrong tiny ones right foil on Jesus I want a refund god damn pardon my french all right okay good we had a presentation look Ike okay better yes okay so as was kind of mentioned in a previous talk there was RFC 1897 with an extended community for origin validation signaling it kind of looked like this and how does the receiver drop in balance yeah I got the message I gave you a prefix you wrote back and you said it sucked what do I do cry okay so I want to drop in balance as if I had detected it myself running origin validation okay that should be the effect kind of in fact even slightly more strongly I should withdraw all the announcements where I actually sent out the garbage right so think about reflector with lazy clients the clients don\u0027t run origin validation but it would be nice if they understood this community and actually knew how to act on it and this isn\u0027t policy this is actual behavior change I\u0027m getting a scowl from John and that\u0027s why because it sounds like work okay I mean it\u0027s not just the route reflect your situation but here in this draft we specifically talked about trust boundary okay it\u0027s only within a pop it\u0027s not outsourcing it okay do not share your needles with customers or friends okay so here\u0027s where we kind of differ with the route server issue okay no okay as well of origin validation ploys we really want to do something like this it would be a bit of an accelerator make it easy for some people let\u0027s set her okay and we\u0027d like to request w/g adoption you also want an email to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:39",
    "text": "the listener will that do please email list because I will forget about now three to go to the next presentation because you just said so do you have questions before I better I want to explain why I was scowling which wasn\u0027t the reason you said I don\u0027t think if I understood your summary slides correctly you\u0027re scowling because of withdraw the ones I already announced right that should be a natural consequence of a policy that says I\u0027m not accepting this I don\u0027t know the problem is I\u0027m about reflect your client yeah okay take me around yeah I accepted it yeah I pass it to the right reflector right throughout reflector says and sends the signal back to me to you yeah okay to me that\u0027s okay and I\u0027ve already accepted Andrea now now I understand what you\u0027re asking for I don\u0027t think I like it but I\u0027ll think about it for a while that\u0027s why that is why I thought that\u0027s what you were scowling at this is work and slightly ugly work because it\u0027s not only bad announcement but it\u0027s all the other announcements of the same prefix with the same origin right yep job Snyder\u0027s entity so you\u0027re kind of sticking bgp withdrawals for off link pierce into a BGP quincy no because what the route reflector so the reflector decides this is invalid it sends a signal back to the spoke that could be I know a well-known community or new attributes the spokes that the community it\u0027s already documented and find but you\u0027re saying that this mine takes word completes what it received from the ebgp peer as a withdrawal and then it will send with trust to know the other route service no no about some baby care can see the route reflector when it receives routes from its clients will run a best spot and will announce the best spot a best spot when it does the community tags on top of it to say what is wrong with it now the route reflector could say part one is the best but part four that I just received had a bad community so it could do ad parts in piggyback part four and say this is wrong take it back which will be the net result will be same but it could also send it on the path one which was the best part that is what Ryan is trying to say I think the spoke receives the signal then what does it do it should perform origin validation know that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:42",
    "text": "point is when the spoke receives the signal it withdraws it drops the invalid as if it had detected it but it has no cash feeding it so hands redraw any announcement it may have made with that invalid origin in other words this is signaling withdrawals over EGP communities since its signalling asking you to withdraw shared watch Akamai and and then it decides oh I might have seen this again because somebody did soft reconfigure route refresh and now I\u0027m gonna send it back up and loop it loop it and create a message loop this this sounds potentially very scary and messy actually what Randy is trying to say and I\u0027m channeling him so keep me honest when it receives an extended when edge router receives an extended community for that given prefix on an edge router for all the paths it will go and loop and say wherever you find a spot which is incorrect mark that path ineligible for best path reading the best path and then announced that new best path back to the route reflector so that if someone does a router refresh in again you always always send out the right path does that make sense maybe I I have ten minutes for two presentations gentlemen yep yeah which means none and it may yeah I could see this getting very messy you very quick I had a second question if we\u0027re gonna modify the edges to accommodate the behavior why not just implement region validation and I don\u0027t mean to be cocky but no no no that\u0027s perfectly valid that\u0027s my personal instinct of course but there are others who said otherwise they want to have more centralized control at that level just as they have single or you know paired validators in a pop Ruettiger I\u0027m sorry to be rude I have another present day how am i doing for time for the second presentation can we move along please sorry gentlemen that\u0027s the next button pluck the magic Twitter okay update the content on the thingy the meeting materials are correct this just is wrong but it\u0027s only the tie seeing is that yeah yeah I sent him the email on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:44",
    "text": "this than you asked for this says signaling what this says egress so that\u0027s just a very funny spelling of egress ignored this is incited by professor Volk so the problem is the origin AAS may be modified by outbound policy and also note that the origin is is know when it\u0027s preparing to be announced okay so it will definitely be modified by outbound policy for if it\u0027s being originated here okay so we want policy semantics based on validation should be applied separately to distribution into bgp which if we\u0027ve already defined and kind of have running and separately to egress because I can lunge the path change the effect of origin I could have a selection of a SS on this router and I\u0027m the originator and then I choose which one of I\u0027m gonna tag etc so I want to be able to apply origin validation to what I am about to announce because I don\u0027t want to hear from warrants knock well I\u0027ve got bad breath so when applied aggress the effective origin is the note that\u0027s the effective or geneious must be used to determine the origin validation state and yes I will send you an email to request adoption thank you very much no extra charge Mike go on I will mr. mandersohn so I don\u0027t have a fun slide for you so I\u0027ll just go back to the schedule slide thank you for your um your time so my name is Terry I\u0027m a route server operator I\u0027ll be very clear that I only speak for myself as a root server operator and for the root server that I operate I will not speak for any other root server operator I want to draw your attention I\u0027m talking about DNS and there\u0027s a reason I\u0027m talking about DNS I\u0027ll get to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:44",
    "text": "it in a minute yes yes route not route so there\u0027s a lot of a lot of push to do rpki because you know you\u0027ll look better you\u0027ll you\u0027ll grow your hair back and you know you\u0027ll be more attractive to the opposite sex all those sorts of things and that\u0027s fantastic there are two documents I would like to draw your attention to just slightly you may not understand where they come from but you can google them and find them there\u0027s something called Rs sac 0:21 are a sec is the root server system Advisory Committee and our sector a21 essentially says that the failure of one root server operator is not critical to the operation of the entire internet and that\u0027s good there\u0027s a second document our sex 0 for 2 which says things about the independence of root cellar operators and one of those things that it discusses is that root server operators will be diverse in their operations and their network operations and infrastructures so now I think about this and this is my perspective only no one else\u0027s someone might share it but this is my observation is that if the root server operators all do rpki they are then impacted should one of the five TAS have an a situation more so right now if one particular operator ta operator rpki operator has an issue it will affect nine root server operators discuss iottery there\u0027s a flaw in to seeing them also root so operator and I learned about this about five minutes ago so what I figured out with the and Natalie sand Roberts help from the NCC is it turns out even if you\u0027re not doing our PK if you don\u0027t have an Aurora you still have a problem because someone can get Aurora then Madison what come on um I presume the the single ta operator that you refer to is Erin and that\u0027s because that\u0027s where most of the it doesn\u0027t matter who it is it\u0027s arbitrary well whether there\u0027s there\u0027s 12 organizations that operate root servers there\u0027s only five organizations that currently do the in this current model like I\u0027m not trying to propose any solutions that\u0027s not my job my job is just to highlight that I see there that there is a diversity issue I was asking to make sure I was understanding the problem as you said "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:44",
    "text": "this is presumably exacerbated by the fact that all five acclaiming root in their roots yeas of no not necessarily it would actually also exist if there was a single trust anchor and it could be worse but it\u0027s still so you don\u0027t see this being improved from a diversity perspective by having the the numbers from which the root servers come from more widely spreading right amongst this so evenly distributed I don\u0027t see it as a as a it\u0027s better but it\u0027s not ideal in in my opinion again this is all my opinion my observations job Snyder\u0027s NCT I have trouble grasping the problem there are five root certificates and there are 1326 prefixes and you can distribute the 2605 tells and that\u0027s not enough diversity can you do the numbers for your first two are sac documents please 0:21 sorry know about those numbers the the internal numbers like the first one was it\u0027s okay if one root server is disappeared yeah and the second one is the the the first one is it one it\u0027s okay if there is one one roots of operator fails the second one is a principal that\u0027s set for the operation of root server operators and that is that root server operators will have diversity in their operations inclusive of network and stuff like that so if you sign half of them not sign the other half and distribute amongst multiple r ers you\u0027re done right I don\u0027t know is that the answer that that cider ups would recommend is that within our men days you upper this is where you operate rpki and cider and stuff this is where your expertise is that\u0027s not my expertise in that case I would recommend you try to transfer at least one ipv6 prefix to another region as an experiment to see if you can obtain access to other certificates Oh my name is Carlos I work for Lange Nick notify or else we would happily welcome you guys I mean we can recover policies that allow us to assign prefixes for critical infrastructure that can be used "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:44",
    "text": "outside of our region and I believe the other four have similar policies my my comment is that I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a problem for us to solve I mean as cider ups I think if you have nine prefixes within a single IRR you guys are a bit weak on the diversity aspect that you apparently are defending and other documents I don\u0027t know what the solution is I mean you could roll a piece in some of the root servers distributed among their areas you could get a new space from us you could transfer like yourself there are a bunch of ways you could actually create more diversity in that aspect of their roots or reparations maybe someone should like write a document that defines some things that you should do but that is no there is no advice about this to date you know I have my statement for a plane to our site in my computer I\u0027ve had it for a while I think I\u0027ve this is the right time to submit maybe it is Terry can I ask another clarifying question she can okay it sounds to me like you\u0027re using the root servers as an example organization and losing the weight serve as an example okay sorry you\u0027re using your root I have a problem okay okay I have people telling me that I need to do a PK oh I am nervous as heck a baby doing it because I don\u0027t want to end up on the front of Time magazine too late so they don\u0027t make a magazine anymore I think the depth I guess what I was trying to go is you there are some things that are sort of hot-button topics and maybe the issue is not necessarily a roots or a problem this is in general network operations problem if I operate something a large resource of the Internet or so you think that\u0027s interesting to me from a business perspective I have to have redundancy diversity you know failover sort of capability and my business continuity plan maybe didn\u0027t take into account that I have all of my resources in one rir I wasn\u0027t making that point but if you want to let up that that\u0027s fine okay always I was making a point simply for my own operations is selfish and lack of altruism as that is that\u0027s where it was okay there hi Robert Kiyosaki ripe ncc I am NOT a Rupert root operator I have friends who are three things first what Chris said in I don\u0027t think that root the root servers are any special in this context just a state yeah that\u0027s funny I don\u0027t like the idea of golden numbers and stuff as well six five second statement we went through the scenarios over lunch and I\u0027m happy to talk to you or anyone who is interested or we can form some kind of committee whatever um but the end result of the discussion was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:45",
    "text": "that no operator can be worse off than today if they also have Roseanne rpki they may be better off but they will not be worse off in case of attacks and so on okay it\u0027s not just every day but if shit hits the fan I\u0027m happy to talk about it as I said the third statement is that it\u0027s a bit tongue-in-cheek but brute operators already synchronize on protocols and everything they do you all run ipv4 ipv6 bgp blah blah blah so you might want to you know if you want to diversify then you might want to do write P X or something yeah it\u0027s pretty much tongue in cheek Doug McDermott just to be clear so you\u0027re afraid of either accidental or malicious Roiz being created that caused other folk to drop your route or it could be anything I\u0027m trying to understand the threat scenario which doesn\u0027t cause all right I\u0027ll look I understand that it could be an operational failure at the entity that is signing so which resources to become unknown it would become invalid if it becomes invalid then people who are filtering invalid can\u0027t reach you on that address correct especially if they but that the people who are filtering or transit and all of their customers can\u0027t reach good slurm value first for everybody else suggestions did involve a route server changing its IP address our fir after I\u0027m dead the protocol if you get far build I don\u0027t care they\u0027re twelve other Road servers um so doing drastic structural action in the rpki or the protocol is doesn\u0027t get a lot of sympathy thirdly is I would refer you to about a three year old presentation that shows you how to escape Aaron all my resources are ripe all my v4 and v6 are in right oh not maybe six cuz it\u0027s not mine I didn\u0027t mean this to be a beat up on on any Aria that\u0027s not why who you said you have a whole bunch of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:45",
    "text": "the rude operators are in one arm that\u0027s all it\u0027s a facet of history whatever was the cause what I\u0027m saying is some of them could move without changing IP addresses I think my key point is that even if we all moved and and shuffled around it would be still people world organizations being compressed down into five organizations so your diversity set is now five said being having Aurora is no worse than having no row and your response was incorrect when you said the folder of that role could far below an issue a bad AS IS the detail you\u0027re worried about and they couldn\u0027t issue a role with a bad alias for you if you hadn\u0027t registered Bravo Stein arkose two observations one you\u0027re not gonna settle this or get career an advice today this is a little bit to do people I know I thought I\u0027d raise it anyway other thing though I think you need to make a distinction between reliability and availability and the two services you\u0027re talking about here the fetching and caching behavior of DNS is very different from the fetching and caching behavior of the rpki you can probably survive an outage of no new stuff being published in the rpki for a while I mean eventually they\u0027ll start to have problems you know CR ELLs get stale bla bla bla bla bla but if people aren\u0027t using stupidly short expiration times you can last a few days right a few days if a root server being out would probably be more noticeable so you may need to do the numbers on how long of an outage is acceptable that sort of thing and you know getting good observation yet excited the better distribution but you know talked about it by five there\u0027s only so much you can do Jeff Jeff Houston accidental player inside the ICANN circus from time to time look our sack exists for a very good reason and part of that reason he to observe understand and possibly recommend you\u0027ve raised an interesting issue and part of the issue is whether you should sign and what the Associated sort of issues of diversity where the addresses get said it and so on and I think they\u0027re great topics and you should consider from the perspective of all 12 of you what you should do to give yourselves both diversity and maximal availability and performance and so on and that seems to me like something that our sac should investigate and harness resources and do study for maybe invoking expert commentary or whatever our sec wants to do i think it\u0027s difficult for this group to understand the particular needs of those 12 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:45",
    "text": "operators or even just one in isolation and your motivation about diversity is perhaps best studied in detail in our sac i\u0027m saying in short not here not now guess where I\u0027m going next and fight but wait I do want to go there and then all of a sudden you guys get sideswiped by a random question so I\u0027m being polite in this situation right and I think the politeness is more than a sec might circle around either the group will one or two of the group and get some more data as they do their investigation and that\u0027s great and it\u0027s great that it\u0027s forewarning as I said it\u0027s a bit tough to say to us solve it because like I said wrong place wrong time I\u0027m not ask you to solve it on actually think about it that\u0027s why I said discuss I didn\u0027t say so because I actually don\u0027t think it is solvable in in the sense of a protocol sensor that as Randy pointed out it would be a significant architectural change and I don\u0027t think that is rightly appropriate but other things can be done like many things about the root server system it\u0027s about assurance to the community that the you know we\u0027re doing as well as we can do state-of-the-art is there and you know I think our sac is perfectly capable of getting to that kind of advice without necessarily committing myself there doing any work at all just just a note on time we are over time so there whatever cookies are the next thing coming with little markers just one general remark it\u0027s a common thing that the when you are implements are mechanism to cope the summer the attacks then you will have additional failures connected with a possible failure of that mechanism it\u0027s obvious you should leave that the problem is whether gains from implementing that measure mechanism over weights where possible drawbacks from these mechanism being broken so you just brought the common general question so who is it worth to implement mechanism yeah just the drawbacks will alway to gains so so everyone should decide by himself so duck again so it seems like your risk is the same no matter what decision you take right because it\u0027s the other people doing validation if if a CA is compromised and somebody creates a a a wrong ro uh for your resources whether you take action or not I\u0027m hoist correct right okay so it seems like you can make your decision as to whether you whether you fear Route hijacks to the routes routes route hijacks to the routes more than you do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:47",
    "text": "you know compromised massive failure to rpki in the way that would generate invalid somewhere else III think of I\u0027ve done enough here of raised the awareness of it and then I think the rest can be discussions I could be a perhaps because I think we\u0027re kind of out of time and cookies awaiting so what is what you would propose a mechanism for follow up on this is there a working group that works on this or an action if we have a great idea where do we send it I my next steps and one had already planned is to raise it at at our sect bit of information is that I am also a representative at our sac and I\u0027m also a member of the asset caucus the asset caucus is the thing that does the work for our sac so it will be raised in our sac that may also spin off into other requests into other parts of the the I can\u0027t ecosystem including something called s SEC which I do know Jeff is also a member of and some others here in this room perhaps as well so yes there\u0027s additional stuff coming through and I think Jeff\u0027s right I think those groups will circle back here but I think it was good to just raise it and so you have some awareness of issues some operational issues that are caused by this particular corner case and as Chris pointed out possibly by other organizations who might think the same way are thank you so much I really appreciate it thanks very you "
  }
]