[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "alright guys about time to start but I still need a jabber scribe somebody I\u0027m jabber my laptop anybody by somebody a coffee beer anything hey Kevin do you happen to have Java installed on your laptop I do not I was hoping something else was gonna show up and somebody in particular was gonna show up and I was gonna recruit them but they\u0027re not here so is Matt not in the room who Matt I don\u0027t see him let me see if I could do it real quick [Music] anybody who just strolled in want to be a jabber scrub oh it\u0027s it\u0027s not hard at all just need somebody to do it thank you all right Kevin I think we\u0027re ready all right you want to drive okay all right everybody it\u0027s time to get started this is the CD and I are working group I hope this is where you want to be so chairs are Kevin whose remote and myself and Francois we have one session it\u0027s just today and just in this room I already have minute takers minute taker I already have jabber scrub and blue sheets are going around so this is the note well I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen this as everybody like to say please note it well anything you say in here is a contribution so all right here\u0027s our agenda for today the agenda bashing and introduction from chairs a document status update I\u0027m gonna talk about URI signing for a little bit and then we will Frederic will talk about HTTP delegation and then orys going to talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "about the SV AOC drafts one of which is now a working group document and then we\u0027re going to talk a little bit about reach are during at the end and if we need to or not and conclusions the next steps so before we go any further is anybody wanna bash this agenda oh all right Kevin you want to do this part yep the slides are training really slowly so I\u0027m gonna assume you already have the slide up yeah working group milestones and published our season right so these two lists haven\u0027t changed any of these are our published rfcs you can skip through those two pages the current remaining milestone the only milestone that we have currently is the URI signing which hopefully will be done very soon we\u0027re gonna get an update on that today on the next slide we have our beyond working group milestones CD NIH DPS delegation which Frederick is going to talk about and we have an adoption call-out currently which it\u0027s looking like we\u0027re probably going to get an adoption there the CD and I request drawing extensions as Phil just mentioned we did adopt that and then there\u0027s the CD and eye control interface triggers extensions which last time we discussed might need a charter update but we will talk about that at the end we will be adding milestones for the new documents that are not currently that have been adopted or will be adopted but are not currently milestones and we\u0027re not currently pursuing the rate pacing at this time unless someone in the working group has a strong feeling about the need to add rate pacing metadata so next slide so I think we\u0027re ready to go Phil if you\u0027re ready all right all right shout out to Brian Campbell for his awesome pictures that he offered up through for this so there we go much better alright so right now we\u0027re sitting on draft 16 that\u0027s that\u0027s been that was uploaded right before the deadline so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "had another one 15 that was just there was a small goof in it so I just did a 16 so basically the changes since 14 added the critical claim set this is something we talked about in Montreal we also talked a lot about the sign token death and this was actually what took the longest I took the most amount of work to get right so we had some conversations in Montreal and on the mailing list and on the issues about this and the the final consensus on it was that we would go sign token depth so I didn\u0027t hear any more issues on that so I merged that one in removed the simple URI container that was non-controversial that we talked about in Montreal and some small knits so next steps I think personally as editor we\u0027re ready for a working group last call so and I would like to hear comments as to whether or not people agree if specifically people disagree with that and that\u0027s about it Chris lemons from Comcast on your on your diff you missed the swap between pcre and yari I wouldn\u0027t necessarily discuss that as a small-knit we did talk about it on the mailing list yeah very good point I\u0027m sorry I missed that so we we changed out originally one of the URI containers was pcre and we switched it to ER ye-yes which is a POSIX standard and we did we did have it talked about that on the mailing list but I think I don\u0027t think there was as much discussion I think that was just agreed upon that that was the best route to go yeah yeah thank you for mentioning that forgot about that and the second thing I actually opened a pull request yes github and made a comment on the mailing list I found in practice 403 is not always the best answer sometimes when the token is out of date there is a value in redirecting the client to somewhere they can get a better token or have a more useful error message or really a whole bunch of different use cases I think the the language I put up is a potentially simple way to handle that so we may want to consider some error handling as we go into last call but yeah I agree we want to get this as close to finish as soon as we can okay so to get to give a little more background on what Chris said he he wants to be able to redirect the user somewhere in the event that their token has expired that the token is invalid for reasons other than then being like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "yeah so the idea is if your token is bad we want to know normally we just send you a 403 but if your token is bad in some cases we want to send you back to where you can get a good token or maybe an alternate version of the content that doesn\u0027t require the token or some fallback a whole bunch of use cases that came up in practice but we can\u0027t allow that to happen if the token is not signed properly because otherwise we allow an amplification attack exactly yeah so that\u0027s what I was trying to point out so there there was no there was no other feedback on that so I don\u0027t know discussion yeah there was no discussion on the mailing list and no discussion on the issue I\u0027ve prodded some people to see if we could get some feedback but I I don\u0027t know so my my feeling on it is that it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of an over complication but I\u0027m not opposed to getting it in it just seems like I think I feel like we discussed it at some point and we said wow this is this is gonna be a lot of extra detail to put in but since you\u0027ve already done the wording I think it\u0027s worth talking about but I would love to hear more feedback on that and whether or not we need to add that before working group last call or not so that\u0027s that\u0027s my thoughts on it agreed anybody have thoughts it did put it up right before the meeting actually technically during the meeting so people may not have read it don\u0027t you put it up last week or like this weekend yeah it was this weekend so depends exactly this meeting Ryan to sit depends what you call the IETF meeting started people may have been on their airplanes so I I haven\u0027t read it yet is it is the proposal a nuke a new claim an optional claim what is it it\u0027s it\u0027s a as I have it currently worded it\u0027s a pair of optional claims a one claim for what code to return and one claim for what what the location parameter should be and the goal is to make it as simple as possible for implementers to handle so it\u0027s an optional claim on signing but processors must implement it okay and is it likely to increase the size of the token significantly yes anyone who uses this claim will have to pay the cost of having the redirect location inside the token but obviously if you don\u0027t use the claim then you don\u0027t have that in there right there there\u0027s no way around that if you want something you have to pay for it my other my other concern about it is having to have enough state to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:11",
    "text": "able to have continuity for the user so if if you redirect them back to some sign-in page or whatever there\u0027s got to be enough context in that URL that you in that URI that you redirect them to to also then get them back to where they were so it\u0027s not it\u0027s it\u0027s gonna be very it\u0027s gonna be very long that\u0027s a correct observation in fact one of the requests originally was that the tocut the the the bad token be included as either a query string or path parameter or a cookie or whatever in the redirect process itself so that whatever received the redirect would have that and I felt like that was probably an unnecessary complication but it would shrink the potential URI sighs so the other observation I had was that currently if you\u0027re watching a video online and there\u0027s some kind of air it\u0027s kind of like hey there\u0027s some kind of air try this again later and you know exiting out and going back and you know I\u0027m thinking Netflix YouTube that kind of thing seems to be a rare enough event and kind of an accepted user experience yeah we could we could make it more seamless but I feel right but streaming video isn\u0027t the only use case here right this is this is general-purpose and generally useful I guess I kind of feel like when there\u0027s an air we don\u0027t always have to have this completely seamless right but if I actually have a user agent that\u0027s a browser at the other end of this it would be really nice to be able to redirect them to the login page because there are multiple use cases for this did use were you just saying that it\u0027s an it\u0027s two optional claims however the the CDN is required to implement them right I don\u0027t see a way around that because it\u0027s error handling right so the receiver has to have to know what to do with it if someone gives it to them yeah cuz because I feel like if it were just two optional claims and there weren\u0027t objections it would be easier to put in but put it in a requirement that how this whole piece has to also be implemented makes makes the burden a little higher but the brain is a little bit higher I don\u0027t see a way around that because the receiver a receiver and a parser of the token has to be able to accept anything any valid token that\u0027s handed to it right there\u0027s no way for a receiver to say I only implement half the spec so if we put it in their receivers have to have to be able to accept it although a signer is obviously allowed to implement any subset of claims that it it feels is useful for its use case but it\u0027s different to say it\u0027s mandatory to understand versus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:12",
    "text": "mandatory to enforce right you can say you must be able to parse this but you don\u0027t have necessarily have to be able to do the redirect I guess correct and there may be security reasons why one CDN or another use case may choose to refuse to do so right right it might feel that for for excuse case leaking that information is as a security concern and so it\u0027s going to to refuse to comply and certainly an implementation needs to have the flexibility to define their own policies around exactly what they do once they understand it so I guess fill to your point whether or not the CDN has to implement it it\u0027s they have to not they have to recognize that claim tag but they can toss the data if they want does that make it more palatable to you I mean they\u0027re still parsing JSON and if they come across it it\u0027s not a credit yeah yeah I mean I guess so so so I guess what it comes down to right now is is its its it needs some time for people on the mailing list to respond to it yeah I don\u0027t have any other actions it\u0027s not blocking on anything so waiting a week or two for people to talk about it and I you know if we decided to go with it I merge it and make a 17 if not you know you can you can still start a Shepherd review or whatever on it if that\u0027s the direction we think we want to go with it so I I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think we have to decide it right now but I think that\u0027s kind of my feelings on it is I\u0027m kind of minus zero right I\u0027m I\u0027m gonna propose as the chair that I\u0027m gonna go ahead and do the Shepherd review on version 16 and there\u0027s gonna be some period of time where I\u0027m that we\u0027re going to give me to do that and during that time if we want to discuss this new pull request we can if we decide we want it and there\u0027s support for it then we can add it in if not then we can move forward with 16 we don\u0027t have to make that decision right now and we don\u0027t have to hold up the next steps for 16 on it does that seem reasonable to everyone I seems good to me okay all right that\u0027s that\u0027s all I have unless anybody else has any other comments on the draft or the next steps all right [Music] so I think Frederick is up next so quick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:24",
    "text": "status on the draft interfaces HTTP delegation so quick update to remind you a bit the purpose of this draft is to is to propose extensions to the existing cDNA interfaces to exchange delegation metadata so based on the last comments we had in Montreal we try to reflect all of them so basically we the draft now supports the delegation method objects that the chaton automatically renewed certificates that is that is supported in the like me working group not so the subset draft which is supported in the TLS working group also we add a command to remove the work large delegation method from from this version so we did and finally we we included the delegation method in the past metadata so I think now the draft is ready for adoption so we know call for reduction yeah I think it\u0027s been getting a lot of feedback on the list I don\u0027t know how Kevin feels about this but I don\u0027t even think we need to do a home here because we\u0027ve gotten so much feedback on the lists your thoughts on that I think I agree I think we\u0027ve seen a lot we can do a hum if if people would like I think the draft looks good the updated draft I sent you a couple of comments Fredrik on the list but if you want to take care of those before in the next Rev when you switch do we want to go ahead and just do a hum I could definitely do one all right from the audience that they would like to see that so all right please hum if you would like to adopt this draft please home now all right please hum now if you would not elect like to adopt this draft all right that was pretty clear there were there were no hums against adoption and quite a few for adoption so I think the the mailing list will leave it to the end of the week I just want to give it enough time to give everybody a chance to get feedback but I think it\u0027s good to go okay since any comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:29",
    "text": "all right Orie I believe you\u0027re up next which do you were nodding first okay so this draft was adopted last last IDF basically what we added here is the ability to have redirect target capability objects that allows the downstream CDN to advertise to the absent CDN where they want them to redirect by DNS or HTTP one open issue that was left is how to construct the location for HTTP so what we have proposed in the past was that the construction of the location would be based on a path prefix a host and a past perfect and the ability to include or exclude the redirecting host as the first path segments and there was a proposal from Kevin I think that we might consider instead of having those explicit fields having some kind of an area of construction so this is kind of a question for this forum if if you think it\u0027s more appropriate to have something which is more generic because maybe an F instead of this object so basically that\u0027s it Kevin maybe since you proposed that maybe you can share your view I think the I think the object is fine I\u0027m yeah I could go either way on this one it\u0027s it\u0027s something that I think could be specified more more precisely I suppose more generically and more precisely but it\u0027s not really necessary for this particular application so I could go either way if no one feels strongly about it okay so maybe I just bump it again in the mailing list and if there are no more objections or proposals around that I would just make this object to see this okay so that was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:35",
    "text": "those are the only updates for that particular document Ori right yeah right so that was the only update actually I haven\u0027t changed it since it was moved to [Music] document instead of one just about a B and F I haven\u0027t read the document so I probably shouldn\u0027t voice an opinion but this is the type of comment I might raise during very direct this review so I hope it\u0027s not you know but this you know if it\u0027s unclear I will I will tell you basically I don\u0027t think it\u0027s going to be big deal either way okay thanks so maybe a general question before I move on to the triggers is that we have multiple new ideas for new metadata objects and footprints or object the same as in this document and the question is how do we have introduced more numerated a data objects in their footprints as they come along should we have different and separate drafts for each and every one or what what do you think should be the way to go I I tend to think it depends on how quickly you want to get these through we can we can do them as individual drafts if you have them all and you know what they\u0027re going to be and you want to get them all out together it\u0027s it\u0027s a little bit less work on our side to have to push a one draft as opposed to five drafts through right I think yeah I this a Sanjay Mishra I agree with Kevin I think it may be just easier to work on these individually just so that you\u0027re focused on what the topic is and what we\u0027re working on so we\u0027re not holding up on lot of different different things and then you know if we have if you feel like we have multiple drafts you know it\u0027s easy to combine it that at some point later on okay thanks right if they if they all get to a last call at about the same time you can just merge them at that point right but you can put them out as they come I suppose though each have to be adopted separately or a choice by the working group to go ahead and merge it into the the existing document this is the trigger extension draft so just a refresher we added versioning for the triggers because we are changing the interface and we want to have interface versions we added the ability to select the content that the children\u0027s to using regular expression or video playlist and we added the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:35",
    "text": "ability to add the generic extension objects that pretty much like the metadata generic objects it\u0027s kind of a list of generic objects that one can implement or introduce new new types of objects that would control or restrict the trigger depending on your what you want to do and we introduced the first two generic object it\u0027s a location policy and time policy and also we introduced FCI advertisement for the extension objects that you can advertise that you support specific types of our object and also for the for the visions so follow-ups from my previous IDF we were requested to replace the ABR protocol type with a media protocol type so we do that and there\u0027s an issue to consider and I bring it here if we weaken if we want to keep on handling also MSS within this draft because as far as I know when it says is it\u0027s not being used also entirely in the industry so maybe we should just keep it with HLS and - I don\u0027t have any strong feeling about that but maybe others do there was an issue of implication of reg X complexity attacks and I\u0027ve added it to the security consideration section one more issue was adding the ability to use local time within the time policy it\u0027s kind of tricky and I\u0027m going to discuss this in a minute in a moment and the ability to propagate errors and other issues from all these things along the trigger delegation path so you could do back tracing of those and understand where the problem was in which the options in there so adding the work on time through the time policies so this is kind of tricky because the rationale here is that when you execute the trigger things like repositioning or other heavy stuff you might want them to happen in specific time slots but since CD ends I\u0027ll distribute it across many regions in many cases you may want to do that in specific time sorts but in local times of those regions not in your car not in your local time or any specific time just like saying I want to do that between 2 a.m. and 5 a.m. in your specific regional time so currently without ads that could be achieved by having a combination of time policy together with location policy it has the drawback that it requires multiple triggers you have to have different triggers for every every region and there was a proposal to add the ability to have a local time flag that indicates exactly what you want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:36",
    "text": "execute at these hours at your local time so that was the rationale the question is how to push all to represent a local time so we cannot use the existing time window object because it\u0027s UTC and using unique set box and that doesn\u0027t work for local time possibly we can add a new time slot object something which will be different than the time window and the question is how exactly to represent that time and I I don\u0027t have a good answer for that because if we follow our 3:9 internet time since there\u0027s no notation for your local time this notation for UTC and there\u0027s limitation for a specific there\u0027s nothing like that um 5:00 a.m. at your local time so it\u0027s kind of an open question because I don\u0027t have a good answer for that yet anyone has if anyone has any observation about how to do that that would great otherwise I would just introduce something new is there another group another working group that we can ask who owns time objects okay I will try to figure out that somebody written this RFC so I\u0027ll try to connect with those people and try to see if there\u0027s there if there\u0027s any kind of observation of how to do that I feel like if we put it in our own like you create a string and a string format and then we say this particular string format is hours : minutes : seconds and it applies to your time zone it\u0027s easy enough to specify but we\u0027ll probably getting somewhere for it yeah I\u0027ll try to follow up with whether written times back and say I don\u0027t know of any anything to help you in this space so I think inventing your own is fine as long as it\u0027s reasonable I don\u0027t know it\u0027s can be a separate boolean attribute or you just do variation on our teeth 3 3 3 9 just for your force no times on case but local local times our case because you have very specific application rejection requires this most applications don\u0027t want to do that yeah so they they will use a existing format so I\u0027m trying to think if we can generalize that if there are other type of applications that may need to have something like that yeah I do something I I don\u0027t have a good suggestion for you I don\u0027t think you are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:37",
    "text": "in trouble because you already researched and I\u0027m not aware of anything that ok this is an RFC for examples I think if if we can borrow as much as we can from 33:39 as far as the formatting there there a B and F that sort of thing and then just modify it to whatever degree we need to ignore timezone and tell tell them to use local time we can make it as close as we can and then maybe somebody will want it I\u0027m now starting to design and fly but you can replace the Zed we do know with another exactly it\u0027s just yeah and it\u0027s going to be close enough that a lot of parses can either be extended or you know yeah oh they will you know fail in a predictable way hopefully so error propagation so we\u0027ve added a new error description version two errors may happen in any day now since at the end and on the trigger litigation path so this was kind of an issue even before introducing the extensions but now since we have an extensions and extensions may or may not be supported by different and options in the ends it becomes more of an issue so we\u0027ve introduced the new error description version two and the arrows vector is now error vector V 2 arrows B 2 and it adds the a property CDN to indicate the failing DCD and the definition of CDN is the same as it is in the arm in the original RFC it\u0027s kind of an ID that is indicated by a the a s and when delegating triggers they delegate obesity and must propagate errors that they have received from bouncing Citians down the delegation pass and add these arrows to the error v2 array and then you are I\u0027ve added a new error code extension to indicate there was an error due to a jeweler extension status version two so a recap we already have the status version two from the previous draft provision because we have a trigger v2 and they start to speak to include the trigger e2 instead with children and now the trick is this a status version 2 must also include the earliest version 2 of the error description so that\u0027s it we bring it to offer adoption and I understand it requires a recovering I think Kevin is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:38",
    "text": "gonna talk about that a little bit he did some research on this and I guess that\u0027s that\u0027s actually the next item on the agenda so maybe we should do QA and then if if nobody has any questions we can move on to the next item in the agenda and address that ok so I to comment on on the draft or on the slides your original the first question was about whether or not we should continue to have MSS is there any harm in keeping it or do you think it\u0027s not worth it at all I think it\u0027s still up you know it\u0027s still up to the DCP and that\u0027s whether or not they support it so it having it in makes it somewhat more flexible I think ok unless there\u0027s gonna be a registry for it but then we still have to go through and have another registry entry at some point there\u0027s anything we need to edit anyway so yeah so yeah might as well do it and then what was the other I don\u0027t remember what my other one was so we can skip it I\u0027ll remember at some point I still need to do a review of that of the updated draft and so I\u0027ll probably come out there ISO 8601 has a local time format oh so I\u0027ll follow up on that [Music] Thanks so the next item on the agenda here is it\u0027s amazing sorry was that we are on time this is a first it\u0027s the next slide in there there you go okay so so last time we talked about the need for recharging if we wanted to do the the triggers extension for those who were there back in IETF 84 we had made a decision not to pursue any type of hass optimisation used to be adaptive streaming optimizations at that time in an attempt to try and get all of the base specs out quicker there was an RFC 69 83 that listed out all of the pass optimizations that were considered at the time interestingly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:39",
    "text": "enough pre positioning of past content was not one of them one of them was retrieving sim files but not specifically pre positioning manifests through triggers and so it\u0027s not really covered there in terms of what would be necessary or how it impacts the interfaces our existing Charter does say that in the event that any protocol extensions or new protocols are necessary we will recharter and so we\u0027ve been looking at the Charter and we discussed it with Alexi the Charter itself doesn\u0027t preclude us from doing house optimizations to the triggers interface we have existing text in the Charter for doing a control interface and and adding some fields to make it more HTTP adaptive streaming seems to fit within that it\u0027s not in any of the things we\u0027re not allowed to do in this working group list so at this point in time we are looking at it as we can reach our there but it will be the same charter so we don\u0027t actually have to recharter and we can add an enhancement and enhance control interface a milestone to our existing milestone list does anybody have any comments or issues with this particular approach well I was he have no objections I read the way protocol extensions what region may maybe it\u0027s ambiguous but I\u0027ve I thought it was about HTTP extensions and because young you know I suppose the text is slightly ambiguous but you know it allows you just to add this and continue working I think that\u0027s fine but if you want to take other items which doesn\u0027t clearly fit you know you might as well reach other ones right it\u0027s supposed to reach out to multiple times right I think one that one question is would we want to tackle any additional HTTP adaptive streaming issues one of the big ones was manifest rewrite which we\u0027re not doing and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s in our Charter today and I don\u0027t know if this is leading us down that road but just simply sending a URI with an extension of m3u8 and hope and expecting the downstream CDN to understand it and support it I don\u0027t think is terribly far-fetched for what the triggers interface was intended just a quick question here on the text that you have now when we say submit enhanced CDN a control interface should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:42",
    "text": "the word enhanced be qualified as to what what specifically the the Charter would include so that the reader understands you know what the the new Charter is actually going to be inclusive off because enhanced by itself is not giving quite a to a reader as to what what it is that we\u0027re looking to do I had intended with hath support to qualify the enhancement okay so yeah I mean that makes sense for the has but some of the other additional items as in the Ori slash presentation that may not be necessarily covered with that but this language the right no no so there will be other there will be separate as charter of miles separate milestones added for the other documents and once we adopt HTTP delegation once we adopt her and for the request routing those are just additional metadata those have always been considered something we would do right the meditator interface is there and it is extensible and we agreed to be the you know standardizing body for new metadata so within the context of what they currently contain adding new metadata i think is fine and we can add a charter milestones for adding those documents but in terms of this is a change to one of the core interfaces i think has to be specified slightly more precisely yeah I agree Thanks any other comments so it sounds like we\u0027re gonna do some more milestones here and not have to recharter them do we need to come on that or is the home for triggers I don\u0027t think we really need to hum here if the Charter itself is not changing and it\u0027s as long as Alexie\u0027s good yeah okay do we wanna yeah I\u0027m perfectly fine with it you do we want to now move on to humming about triggers document uh give me the adoption they\u0027re out sorry yeah the adoption of it yes since we no longer have to recharge to do that and we discussed doing that in Montreal but stopped short because of the recharging yes okay just so everybody knows what we\u0027re talking about here hello it was it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:42",
    "text": "was much louder before and I noticed it got quiet so I don\u0027t know if they adjusted it but is that this is better all right this one was working at the beginning so sorry I apologize for that alright so um believe this is the this is routing right so the document that I want to do a home for adoption on is the CD ni triggers SVA extensions so right now I\u0027d like you to hum if you would if you are for adoption of this document okay and now if you are against adoption of this document please hum now okay I heard several homes for and no hums against I will follow up on the lists with an email about this and then if everything is good there we can add it any other comments or questions about that all right I believe that was that is the end of the meeting do you have anything else Kevin everybody go out and read the documents review the documents and out compliments on the documents other than that we will continue to try and move forward with these documents thanks everybody for coming hope you\u0027re having a great time in Bangkok village anything else I miss going is there where\u0027s the other blue sheet and has everybody had a chance to sign in yeah anybody know where the other one is okay is anybody else need to sign it before we go yeah the decision about to reach out to enclose them yeah so so the the outcome was that we do not need to reach Artur because the wording that there was concern around was basically loose enough to allow what we were going to do with simply milestones is there did you have further concern about that I mean is a room for proposing all the points that you can add in the shorter to wish shuttering I heard that that needs to either the provisioning you see of certificates in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:42",
    "text": "the CDN and this will probably impacts though interfaces so do you have a concrete problem that that we can solve I mean the provisioning of searches is handled right to go further I need to better understand how you are going to proceed with the shutter so yeah I understand that you are not visually shattering or correct okay good okay but then the last point about the control interface either the working woman going to modify if the control interface for adaptive streaming or not so the proposed document that or he has proposes updates to the existing trigger interface and the current read of the Charter is that that fits into our existing Charter so we don\u0027t need to recharge to get that in and if want to adopt it then we will do it and so on the short term is a do we plan to reach out or not not at this time we will add the three new milestones okay good so I really change about you made a with a chair about there\u0027s a different point I was speaking about okay and certainly if you have ideas of new things that we shouldn\u0027t okay thanks for finally girl escape here but yeah just just to summarize we\u0027re not shutting down the chartering discussion indefinitely it\u0027s just that we for the documents that we currently have that we\u0027re talking about adoption for we don\u0027t need to so in the future if something comes up and we we want to reach Artur for it we can reopen that discussion and talk about it then but as of right now there\u0027s no concrete documents out there that we think we need to reach our tour for so all right amigo feel free to write a draft though if you want I send in one maid or to each other all right I think we\u0027re good then need anything else all right enjoy the rest your days everybody thank you take care nobody "
  }
]