[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign oh that's fun nothing else correctly in the um is there correctly okay so I suspect that someone's been writing sedate notes into the media man so this looks as if someone's been writing sedate notes and into medium and foreign because the link had media man in it wow whoever takes not should just leave them there in case you know so they don't get lost yeah that's kind of annoying because so so you can start off by writing a header header across it if you're looking for the sedate not see the bottom of this page uh what's up note note that the meeting started one minute ago"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:10",
    "text": "okay foreign I think I think that's actually a template the notes that are currently sitting on our note URL something is strange that's for sure thank you uh yes it's fine I should be doing it foreign so if you were just looking for a quiet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "place to to read your mail this might be the room for you but if you're here for the media man work group welcome so we have one hour and we have a couple of slides to go through sorry um so standard stuff node well is the same as always if you have if you can't read the small print just look at the online Pages it's the same as in every working group meeting tips same thing wear masks unless actively speaking at the microphone so resources today is again then yes there were our stuff comes in so first point this is Media man working group second point do I have a volunteer for scribe Graham can I irritate you subscribing what's going on at the moment oh yeah Alexa and Graham will cooperate on sliding on taking notes somehow we have three drafts and one discussion item to go through the top level the haptics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "the multiple suffixes and the discussion on registration procedures and all that is going to take less than one hour and now does anyone wish to bash the agenda it's on the screen and in the slides in the online deck slides I'm sorry so I think I also sent the agenda and text and make lists but uh I might have changed it after that without telling anyone so nobody wishes to bash the agenda so we'll just go out so for each draft on my list I have three standards questions standard questions one is who has read the drafts one second is who supports going to the working group last call at this time and who thinks there are issues that should be there called result before the working group last calls if you raise your hand for both of those class two then uh I think you're somewhat confused so those are kind of exclusive the point of this is exercise is to flush out issues now so that we don't so that we actually get forward progress I'd like this working group to finish preferably soon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "so Martin couldn't be here either online or not so I'll speak to that changes since last idea we now have a working group repo a working group git organization and it has a report git repository that contains the medium and top level drafts there's a zero one person per version published there's a few issues raised against this and that's actually all the status there is this is an edge slide so the issues that are on my list are criteria for registration there's a proposal in the drafts which people might consider appropriate or not it's uh we need to describe what the effect of having a top level type is supposed to be it would be nice if it actually fits yet had somebody assembleness the reality if you strive for World Peace by reducing top level types you're in the wrong business should we have a Ayan registry of the top level types where should we put background justification info that this is done by leveler by the top level types and I forget because this question was should we use should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:09",
    "text": "I was curious about the last one and I actually had a quick look I think Martin said is like should we use should more than must in in various places it's not very specific yeah so that's uh kind of I can't find my repo at the moment GitHub there it is top level issues so Martin's uh comments are that yes it uses nests like it should this must be done in order to register a neural type and that's kind of a subset of the criteria discussion where and yeah so all right all right I have a new issue to raise and I can comment on the should thing um you don't have to use the should type language just in order to be normative you can say this is simply the way it is done um so it's up to you how you do it but don't feel like that's the only way to get people to comport with whatever you want to say um and the other thing is that all three of the documents I just went through them very quickly looking for a few things that I typically trip on when I'm looking at things that get to the isg none of them use BCP 14 properly so the authors will need to fix that 14 is uh the should the keywords thing so it's it's a they all refer to 2119 and one of them makes up some of its own stuff can't do that so yeah so that's uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "that's an issue there is so I'll ask here some quick questions criteria for registration or first first question who has read the drafts five out of seven or something like that I'm not yeah and um creative organization and who thinks the current criteria are approximately right I think so approximately so you know they don't think it's obviously I mean Martin does not often the right field is more or less where we want to be but of course there's always details the effects I think that's wordsmithing and Alexey Alexi yeah I wish the criteria was very crisp about you know you just know and go through checklists and just decide but it's it's not and I think that's just real world with this sort of thing uh we need to find out is there is enough interest or is documenting existing use and you know all of these things so yeah I think yeah so basically I'm saying you know yeah I wish it was better but it's the way it is and that's probably good enough yeah so we'll we'll take suggestions for making it better but I think we'll do that in the list do we think there should be an Ayana registry of top level types yes yes no and care to elaborate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "the no has to elaborate I think okay I'm not quite sure what problem is being solved here but I'm hesitant to say too much because I haven't I'm not up to speed with the draft but it seems that top level types are sufficiently rare that the overhead of having to write a new RFC to create one doesn't seem to be that out of out of line oh well I'm thinking that comes comes on the criteria I I think in nrfc is perfectly perfectly appropriate but uh keeping a list of them might be a good thing so uh Alexa yeah Murray was actually the following protocol so you should go first yeah um being media type reviewer actually one of the things that trips me several times is quite unless you know where to look it's kind of hard to know where the model of media type is registered because it's very old RFC it doesn't fall the new template uh and there are a few things like this so yes maybe it can be just dealt with by edging references to RFC numbers on the media type page and that might be sufficient uh but I kind of think that it might be easier to just have a registry and registration procedures are actually required which is whatever which is already what we what we're doing anyway okay you convinced me I would draw my no thank you I think we have a con content and working group get in the room consensus on uh one thing I mean an Ayana registry and where to put background justification info I kind of think that that might be moved if we keep the requirement for having an RFC published"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "because that's the place they put it with the haptics with the haptics being a good good example to follow and the way I read the should be used should is really should be relaxed requirements so that they're a little bit more sloppy and I was hearing the opposite from this Murray I'm going back one point to the background information if we're going to do RFC required which I think would be hard to justify do anything less than that um it seems like that's going to take care of the second last bullet yep so let the notes show that we seem to be thinking that the answer is in the RFC and then I heard some comment on on saying that we should make sure the the requirements are as crisp as possible which says that we shouldn't you should but I think that comes down to a discussion of each individual Criterion foreign so my current understanding is that this needs to be revised again it's not ready for last call and we should say thank you very much for to Martin and get get get kicking with commenting on the issues we'll go to the next slide and that's what's supposed to be a says separate presentation and you and Mr mutasami is asking to [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "presents hi Harold hi everyone [Music] I think I may have to stop stop presenting in stop stress here and ground screen and see if that works okay you might have you it's possible that you have it yes I do it takes a little while to start up okay let me see are you able to share my I see my screen or do I have to do something you have to share okay I thought I was doing that give me a second I mean mythical seems to be thinking that you're not sharing ah here we go I was looking for the shared window as opposed to the entire screen I found it okay now I'm gonna go into slideshow mode and ask the question again are you able to see my screen now yes okay great hi everyone my name is yashwant mutasami and I'm going to give a quick update on the Optics internet draft uh just a quick rundown of what has happened since the last time I I uploaded a version of the draft which is version zero one in back in May uh the in there have been a lot of haptics related development in a MPEG which are quite quite relevant to what is happening here uh the impact guy haptics phase one codec is now in CD back palette which is a first of three rounds the there is a new working draft on the MPEG eye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "Carriage of haptics data and this is significant because it uses or defines and fleshes out the mih1 haptic subtype to refer to the Enterprise optic streams and in the emperor guy scene description group two haptics extensions have been approved for implementation and there is a new working graph that's specifies how haptics interplays with interactivity and user representations and so on and I have done a scrub of Martin's draft and to see whether the haptics IV satisfies all the all the requirements as listed in the two sections and the next few slides are going to be effectively kind of a q a on whether those requirements are being satisfied or not so let's jump right into it the first one uh I'm not going to read through all of his his criteria you you have that with you just the blue Parts which are my answers to whether they are they are being satisfied or not they intended status of this draft is indeed as standards track RFC and I have received evidence of interest from three organizations so far you've you might have seen the emails to the media types mailing list they are from tencent interdigital and Razer the interdigital is kind of hot off the presses I just forward it to the group just now I wasn't sure if it's going to show up by itself uh I I don't think that there is any confusion here because all subtypes that pertain to any formats pertaining to haptics or any of the sub moralities of haptics would fall under"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "this top level type so in my opinion at least there is zero scope for confusion moving on uh the I have two actual subtypes defined in this draft as soon as this draft is approved the registration of the actual types will be done and reflected on the final RFC document but there are also a number of subtypes which I talk about in this in this deck and we can go about we can look at that and these are the haptics subtypes which are actually in use as we speak a a hap is is a format that represents all of the encoding used in iOS devices right now you know over a billion mobile devices worldwide or org is a proprietary extension to the org for for format for haptics done by Google by Google and uh and IBS is a he invent a specific haptic for format that we at immersion are using and many of our our customers are using same goes for hacked in a decision to this there are a number of Standards related haptic for subtypes which are in Flight in various stages of standardization and a few of them are documented in section 2.6 but based on the last meeting in the month of October at MPEG there are a few more which are worth mentioning and you see them all here the HM Peg is the phase one coding format H Jeff is The Interchange format mih1 as I mentioned already is a streaming format and then the highee according for formats are actually invalid this is the idea in the final"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "IEEE essay that the ballot and they have one vibro tactile and two kinesthetic coding for formats and the he enum and the havc are the are the in enumerated effects or the A to B or audio to Y coding formats so there is a lot of subtypes which are in haptics which are kind of waiting for the door to be open so to speak once that top level haptics type type is approved these can all be is registered and they will all live under that tactics the top level type uh and then of course as I mentioned already hey immersion has testified two success to two subtypes and we have control over and in the email from from from laser they have indicated strong interest in to in having two of their own subtypes be under the haptics it's a top level type the apps and the chaps and I think the email from Razer actually provides an a Exemplar as a subtype registration I will let you read through that email it's on the list and as I mentioned they're MPEG subtypes are there which are in the previous slide these will become part of the impact standard over the course of the next 12 to 18 months and the IEEE subtypes are going to be used in the 5G tactile internet application space uh a quick rundown to the section 2.2 there is no there are no undefined top level types currently in news of course it is it is actively being discussed in this working group right now so no issues there uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "all data for formats or subtypes under the Optics ID they all put into the sense of touch and they need to be under the proposed top level type and the key common feature of all of these uh subtypes is that they all require some kind of a haptic subsystems such as low level haptics apis which in turn will require Hardware capabilities such as one or more haptic actuators to actually do the rendering of the haptic haptic media so they do all share these common features and attributes uh and the and the last one is that that these are all pertaining to the sense of touch in much the same way that audio and video top level types pertain to the sense of hearing and with vision uh and then common restrictions yeah the applied this is what I could think of and I didn't quite understand the ask in this last criteria this might be something that we discussed on the list it seemed to be kind of more of stream of Consciousness and wasn't as crisp as as someone already had a comment and I kind of felt this one was something that could do with a little bit of fine tuning but in terms of what I could get gather from this last criteria my response is that files which contain just haptics without any audio and video will be directed to the appropriate haptic output output device and an example would be a haptic chair such as a one from d-box or bodysuits which are expecting tactics on only files and that's pretty much it any questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "uh hi um this is much further along than the last time I looked at it so thanks for that um you're running a checklist against the top level document that's great I was going to make sure wanted to make sure you're doing that um section one one uh is obsolete you need to look at 81.74 that's the new text that you need to use in that section um okay sorry are you now referring to specific sections in my draft yes okay okay I just want to make sure that the references were from okay um one thing that uh your two registrations in four three uh two correct two short corrections as I I see this a lot when I'm looking at media type registrations um you have required parameters none it has to be n a otherwise none is interpreted as there's a parameter called none that you need to describe they also the templates both of them are missing security considerations there needs to be a reference to something to look at um okay which which brings me to your section three I think um is this other security considerations you got four paragraphs here so thank you for being thorough um do those cover all haptics types or just the two-year registering no they cover all haptics types okay I think that should be made crisp because um this is going to be the document that I as a media type reviewer come to look for should I allow this haptics registration this is all the guidance I'm going to come to so I need to know if this stuff applies to that these two haptics things or to all future haptics things so just make that clear please okay okay okay great feedback thank you so thank you and speaking as participants for a moment I believe that the the last slide was uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "mostly a text that was and was not uh responsive to the to the text from the top level draft but I also believe that most of the texts can be replaced with not applicable so that's uh should be an easy edit that'll uh send I'll file issues by the way do you have a repository that you want to move or do you want to keep editing yourself are you asking me yes uh do you want to have a repository on the under the working group for the for the drop for the drafts where you can we can file issues and so on sure yes that would be great we'll set that up okay and so my impression of this draft is that uh yes we seem to be supportive of getting the haptics top level type registers but there are some issues with a draft that need to be addressed and we should pursue this further yeah that'll yes um this may be my ignorance in 431 you have encoding considerations that says Tech slash binary is that meaning sometimes it will be text sometimes it will be binary uh I have to look at what you are referring to it's been a while if you can give me just a minute here like and pull it up uh okay to just to uh answer your question there could be some haptics files like the descriptive formats like ahap which has basically an extension of the Json standard so that I think is what is being referred to that that would be the text part where they provide a specification of the haptic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "effect in Json format in other cases the haptic file is just a binary signal thank you so the top level description is to say that some text type some types might be text and some text like and some might be binary yeah each individual registration needs to specify that Alexa the encoding consideration and template is actually is a choice of one of four Fields four values seven bit Evan bit 8-bit binary or framed so it's actually the information might be useful but probably not in this field I'll have a look good at all yeah the particular case is for the IVF subtype so I I get for the overall top level type it maybe take survival the IBS I'm presuming that's one or the other whatever IVs is uh IBS is an is an is an XML based format it has a binary equivalent called ivt but when you create this file it's actually in X XML form okay thank you okay I think we're at the end of the a lot of time for this one and I believe that we have two reasons why this cannot be last call at this time the one is that there are some issues that needs to be fixed and the other one is that it depends on the top level draft that is not fixed not finished but I think we all very happy to see this go be substantially closer to ready than it was last time we looked at it thank you don't let that last Point hold"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "it up by the way we can just make this a misref let's find a movement the thing the thing is that if we change the Criterion top levels um yeah so let's go back to the flashlights [Music] and see where we are going out to suffixes hi Harold can you hear me yes I hear you wonderful uh hi my name is borny um I'm currently editing the suffixes uh document um just just to remind everyone why we're doing this um we had a group uh multiple groups at the World Wide Web Consortium uh namely the decentralized identifiers working group and the verifiable credentials working group that attempted to register um a media type with multiple structured suffixes in it and the question was how exactly should we interpret this there's no RFC on how we should interpret um you know media types that have potentially multiple structured suffixes so this draft is trying to provide some guidance on how um uh implementers should process or how they can process things with multiple structured suffixes on them um so uh since the last meeting we have transferred the repository over to the media man working group thank you very much Harold for picking that up and putting it in there we have just refreshed the specification not much has changed since last draft mainly we're looking for review comments uh and to make a final uh pass over it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "um there are four issues that have been raised uh Harold would you mind clicking on that so that we can just bring bring these up um let's see I I will have to have to find some other way to do it because okay well okay well then I will try and just read through for those of you that have access to the slides please feel free to you know click through to them um the first issue was uh a request by Harold to add something to the security consideration section around you know how could people abuse um uh this this new kind of suggestion on how you can process uh multiple uh structured suffixes so uh is there a way to trick an implementation into doing something like not doing a virus scan um when uh doing multiple uh structured suffix uh processing so the idea here is that you have a pipeline you feed in a media type in that pipeline might decide to not process the entire uh string the opaque value but it might choose to just chop the last structured suffix off like Plus gzip or plus XML or plus LD plus Json or something like that and process that according to more General processing rules and so how could we trick an implementation if we are to suggest that that's an okay way to process these things um so Harold asked for some language there we've added it it feels a bit contrived the current text in the specification feels a bit contrived but at least it's there to warn people and we've been looking for reviewers to provide a better example so that's uh issue two um just keeping that issue open in case somebody has a better idea of a more serious attack with this kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "processing model uh the issue three uh is adding guidance around fragment processing so if you choose to process a document not according to the entire uh media type but according to just the structured suffix uh and the spec um how should you interpret the fragment because it will be different in some cases than the entire thing and is that valid uh sorry the entire media type and is that valid uh so we need guidance on that I would love to hear suggestions from anyone um I think what we were thinking of doing was saying um it is okay to interpret a fragment according to the specification that's associated with the structured suffix so if you've got this big media type and it ends in um I don't know uh uh uh plus let's just say a plus LD plus Json that's Json LD thing it isn't okay to interpret the fragment per the Json LD specification and not per the more specific media type uh specification so thoughts on that would be uh you know fantastic that's the text that's going to be written unless we hear a different idea there um next issue was uh review by Mark Nottingham uh thank you Mark I apologize for taking so long to get back to your review um but uh in the issue I did try and break down uh the concerns that Mark raised um uh many of them you know good good and fine concerns I think there's there's a there's a question here uh and I don't know the answer to this so again would love to hear uh thoughts on this um around um what happens if you've got a big"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "media type and you use a structured suffix to to process it in some way in the way the pipeline algorithm goes is you can keep lopping off structured suffixes and processing them according to the more generalized specification but at the end of the day sometimes what you end up with when you Lop those things off is you end up with a media type that is not registered anywhere meaning that it's like what you're left with is some meta model it has no serialization and and what do we do in that case right so that's the big question uh Mark Nottingham suggested that maybe what we're looking at here is a new top level type feels kind of top level typey um but that creates a number of other issues so there's a concern here the the guidance right now or the guidance I think that's going to be written into the specification is if you choose to lob these structured suffixes off and process them you know in that order you can keep doing that until you end up with a media type that has no registration at that point you have you don't know what to do you can process it full stop right um so I think that's the suggestion there I have no idea if that's a terrible idea uh or not it feels I feel pretty uncomfortable with that um but I can't think of a better way to address that issue and that concern so there's some text that needs to be written there based on Mark's review and then I also need to know from Mark if he's okay with the other answers in there and then finally the last issue is from uh Ted Thibodeaux Jr um issue number five and he just found a number of um grammatical issues that need to be fixed um in as some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "questions that I think need to be clarified in the in the spec by just modifying spec text so um that's it for the issues if we can go to the next slide Harold um so what we have at this point Who's read the draft uh new reviewers we had a bunch of old reviews new reviewers Mark Nottingham Harold Reddit Roberto pulley because they're doing a plus yaml uh in a potentially a plus LD plus yaml extension um and then uh Ted Thibodeau new reviewers they're in the issue tracker there's some there's probably about two to three paragraphs that need to be added to the spec based on that um we should not go to last call just yet because we have things that need to be added but my hope is by the next ITF we will be ready to go to last call um so I think we're going to add those paragraphs if nobody has any objections to them uh we're going to ask for broader review from the did working group and the verifiable credential working group um and get some reviewers from there um and then and then that's it so I think that's the plan those are the concerns um any questions or concerns or suggestions on how we address some of these issues Barrel hi my name is Daryl Miller um just it it's probably more of a question here in some of the suffix are different than other suffix like plus Json plus XML is just adding another lower level layer of semantics but then things like plus the gzip are completely changing the stream of bytes like if you do plus LD Plus gzip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "or sorry say let's say do plus Json plus gzip can I still use a fragment identifier for Json or does that is that no longer valid because of the last plus Jesus yeah that's it that's an excellent question that's where I'm really stuck it's it's those kinds of edge cases that are just really difficult to write to so one thing we could say is like uh if you choose to process multiple structured suffixes in this way all bets are often fragment processing right um uh the other thing that we can say is um it's it's valid so you know you can you can use a fragment in a plus Json plus gzip thing U1 gzip it and then if you want to apply the fragment in the Json then well I mean I forget what fragment processing for Jason I don't is there fragment processing pointer right okay so if there's fragment processing for Jason pointer and you have a Jason pointer plus gzip um if you want to apply you know if you want to ungzip it and then apply the fragment processing to the Json pointer thing it seems like you should be able to do that like that seems like a legitimate thing to do I just don't it's the edge cases I don't know if that results in some kind of security compromise on some crazy combination of the structured suffixes that's the thing that's really bothering me right now um so we could put the text in there to say yeah you can process it it's it's your call you can process it um uh based on the fragment that's associated with the structured suffix um do so at your peril right yeah okay thank you yeah So speaking as participants and I kind of think that gsap is an example of a reversible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "information per serving transform so it makes sense for the G6 suffix registration to say that uh if you want to interpret the suffix a fragment identifier on something that has been has the gzip suffix you need to unpack it and then apply the fragment identifier but I think that we can't make a general rule for that because if you transform something from XML to Json well that that probably doesn't have the same fragment fragment to identify syntax so you would have to re rewrite the fragments too so uh I think I think the this this draft needs to say that uh dealing with the transformation suffixes under transformation needs to be specified as part of this of the uh transformation descriptions foreign field right which is fine but we will need to retractively review the what we already registered to make sure application clarification question uh so you're saying that we should say in the spec that um the how you apply fragment processing needs to be specified in the document associated with the structured syntax suffix yes okay thank you I'll try to put that in text on list so it's easier to deal with there thanks okay so we're so we're now got uh 13 minutes left of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "the meeting and I think that the conclusions are clear here more work is needed and but where we seem to be on the right track and this one does not have a dependency on any other documents so we'll ask the editors to continue editing and ask all the participants to make sure that that the comments are properly filed so that we so that the editors can find them again and by the way I forgot who who has read the draft yeah half of us that's good so the last slot was uh added because Mark nothing had suggested that we should have opened up the discussion a bit now that we have our first items almost out of the way we wish so [Music] we have in our Charter that we are allowed to look at the registration procedures overall and say something about whether they make sense as written whether they need to change or whether we have a suggestion for a real for for a completely different set of procedures so I'll open the floor to comments on registration procedures I see a mark coming hello um I think you know my motivation for putting this in the charter was just the observation that it seems like a number of folks who could register their media types don't uh for a variety of reasons and and some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "of that has to do with the friction around or uncertainty around the registration process some of that has to do with what we allow them to register I think um and so the two kind of conversations that I'd like to start are around whether we can do things to the registration process to encourage and facilitate more registrations and that might be you know I I I proposed GitHub because we've started using GitHub issue cues for a lot of other uh Registries and especially ones where the audience with registry is not just an ietf audience it's a broader audience and I think that's really the case for media types um and we've been using GitHub issue keys with some success in that uh it allows you to have one repo where there's documentation about you know expectations and processing things and you can just file an issue and now with the newer GitHub issue templates you get quite a sophisticated form for Gathering data and and it was pointed out to me I'd forgotten I knew about this but I've forgotten that Diana does have a form for media types it's one of the places where they actually do have some infrastructure for letting people do a registration I think the difference is that excuse me with with the GitHub you create an issue and then you have evidence of that issue you can go back and check its status you can have a conversation in the issue and that's not true with the Forum with the form it's it's more fire and forget and and and I have this unfortunately you know this is the expense of a lot of registrations is that the register follows something somewhere or sends an email and then they don't really know what the status of the request is um and and or or what the the the guarantees on getting a response are it Ayanna is very good about meeting their slas but experts often are not and and so uh that's one discussion to have I think about what we can do I'm happy if we keep the form I think that's great I would ask that we think about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "you know whether we have the right documentation and words around the form to make that process easy and whether we can do anything to make the results of the form processing more transparent um or or if people are going to use GitHub as uh in all the Registries I've used it for it's a parallel process people can still file by email and we don't want to make people use the specific tool s Excuse me yes uh technically yeah you need to make a request directly to Ayanna you can make a request by email to The Experts or through some usually through some mailing list or you can submit a GitHub issue I think that's the typical patterns and the INR path is usually followed by other ietf registrations because they just suck it up when the document gets you know submitted um but but also thinking about you know how can we fine-tune the text around uh that collection point to make it easier for people coming into the process to understand what they need to do and to set their expectations and and I would suggest that maybe one of the reasons why GitHub has been more successful is that you can iterate much more quickly with that you can go and and tweak the text and if somebody has a question you realize you haven't covered a point you can go and put it in whereas right now through no fault of their own we have to go and ask Ayanna to tweak the test on the page and that's a very manual and kind of clunky process so uh that's one area to investigate the other thing that comes up for me is is that right now we reserve the standards tree for uh things we consider standards uh that's why we call it the standard tree um and and we demote other efforts to you know the personal or vendor trees or whatever and and that has a couple of effects I think I I originally I think suggested opening up to uh uh just opening up this demonstrate completely and allowing any registration there we do that with a lot of other registries"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "including HTTP headers URI schemes link relations uh there's no concept of trays in any of these and and especially when you have uh uh something go from you know not a proprietary use or or limited use to standard use if it does become common then you have that awkward transition of well do we rename it or not which you know we tried to address with the x dash uh draft a long time ago and I kind of see the vendor tree in the X tree or rather with the extra it doesn't exist anymore except for legacy and and the personal tree as as kind of other instanti instantiations of of the X tree um so so that was kind of my starting point I think in discussion you know it was pointed out that maybe we should just open up somewhat and say you know be more welcoming and and make it clear that we're more welcoming to open source projects for example and maybe that's the right line but we need to have a discussion about what's the right line for getting into the standards tree how can we make sure that you know that people who want to do the right thing in registered media types uh can do so uh and I don't think that that saying well because you're not a recognized standards developing organization you have to go into this ghetto over here that that's not really an acceptable solution uh for the the world that we live in uh but we do need to maybe have some criteria I I will say that in the other registries we we put more of the work on the expert to say well if somebody comes along and they don't seem to have a vital you know a project that's actually getting adoption and they try and squat on a name that's you know quite common and quite short don't let them do that make them use a longer name that's more specific to what they're doing so that we don't uh consume potentially valuable names as easily I think you know maybe discussions like that might help but but that's I guess the scope of what I see us discussing here thank you speaking as participants and since I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "joined the queue first and the the reason for making a somewhat onerous process for unprefixed names is I think that when we have two things that have the same name we want to make sure that they actually have the same definition so that they can tell whether they conform to the definition or not and we kind of come down that by requiring a stable reference and we're kind of required a stable reference by saying this reference is stable because some standards organization tells us tells us it is but you know application slash Ms word was kind of undefined until recently in history terms so and but I'll give the word to a Graham so can I um the points you made about open source projects an observation from what happens with URI scheme registrations one of the criteria that I've learned to apply on occasion is if some if the scheme is in widespread use then this can usually be found by doing a bit of hunting out on the web and that could be sufficient reason to allow that as a permanent registration so it could be a similar thing that applies here um something you you think the issue of two things should should be referring to this should have the same meaning if they've got the same name I would say that's an argument for making it easier to get the name registered so that they don't get used in the wild without getting registered Manu"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "uh yeah I just wanted to speak in uh favor of um what Mark was suggesting uh in fact this is exactly how we operate the decentralized identifier registry at at w3c um so I A plus one to making it um you know be driven through GitHub that's what we do we provide a very easy template that just about any implementer can fill out it just has a few fields in it it's a GitHub issue template and when they raise that you know the experts are pinged and then we do a review uh threaded review just on the issue on the pull request itself um so uh on the whole it has definitely led to more engagement from non-standards uh people um uh uh we have a 140 basically 145 of these things were registered within the course of around two years um so we had a massive rapid rise in uh registered did methods somewhat you know synonymous well they have the same kind of uh usage patterns as as media types so I think it's a good thing um but um what we have found is we have a bunch of people that don't know anything about standards that jump in and try and register these things and sometimes it takes an enormous amount of effort from the experts to teach people about what they need to do right so so that's stressing out the experts because not a week goes by before we you know we we have to teach these folks like what it means to have a decent spec and a stable reference and all that kind of stuff and even if we give them something to go and read they don't read it right so so that takes uh that's a a an increased uh stressor um the other thing that we've seen is an increased uh um uh squatting uh for for lack of a better term people seem to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "because we made it so easy uh it's really really easy for someone to go in and try and squat in a namespace and then we we ended up spending I mean and it's still going on the registration procedures we're having to keep changing because people keep trying to game it because there's so many more people that are you know attempting to do this so um I think the upsides uh certainly outweigh the downsides um but you know you have to be ready for the downsides if you adopt uh uh such a system they are manageable it's just more work for the experts and it's good to know that going in to the process you know we're now over time so I'm going to lock the queue in a few seconds and then we'll uh please be short okay Alexis so in regards to GitHub I mean let's try it and see we don't actually need to change any documents for this to try it out and if it's successful then well you know we can document it after the fact um and um in regards to sgo I think my preferred short-term fix is to expand the list and say that recognize open source projects are should be treated the same for this we'll need to write an RFC async uh like as I said on the mailing list I don't have problems with somebody like Debian registering they're actually using vendor-specific media types just fine but I don't have a mental problem with with them being considered as jail also which into um yeah I think Daryl Miller um just one of the impacts of the honors process is in the HP API space most people just don't bother they send application slash Json most devs don't even know what content type is for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "because the only thing they've ever seen there is applications last Json um I've been being harassed for four years now to go and register the open API media type and we haven't because we didn't have a stable organization despite its widespread use so it does have a negative impacts I believe the the and positive impacts but there are some negative thank you Mark I think what we might be talking about is um giving the experts a bit more discretion as well as guidelines about who they admit into the standards tree um and I'm glad ones are necessary but discretion is going to be necessary as well because if the if we just say open source well I can create an open source project in about 20 seconds um that's no barrier and so you need to have some some qualifications you need and it's going to require judgment uh there's an appeal process there so I'm not too worried about that you know they can always appeal to the 80s if they feel like the expert get it's wrong gets it wrong but we're going to need to be comfortable allowing the experts to make those sorts of decisions and we might put in gardens you know it might be that the bar is considerably lowered if you prefix your your name not with vnd or PRS but with Microsoft dots or or something you know so that it is in a namespace uh or maybe not a DOT because that would conflict with trees but sorry yes so so I I retract the dot um but but if you know this is what we do often with HTTP headers is we say you know you you're doing this application this is specific to your application so prefix it with your application name so that we don't worry about conflicting with anybody else's use and and everybody's clear about what's Happening Here we can talk about that as well foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "gets the last word so the issue about uh registrations being onerous is intention intention with the issue of wanting to get people to register stuff that they're actually doing in real life and this was behind the structure we introduced for message headers and URI schemes which allows a provisional registration which has got very light touch entry requirements that doesn't have the full status and doesn't have the same level of expectation that it's there forever and then the permanent registration which elevates it to something closer to a standard or recommendation level thank you and now we are over time so I'll ask do we have anyone who's who wants to volunteer to write up a note or something about yeah Mark it's volunteering yeah so he's going to write something that we can in the form of an ID or in the form of something else that we can then criticize and file banks on and do pull requests on right okay okay [Music] I prefer shock it washes off more easily okay and then I should say thank you all for coming and we'll meet again online we'll continue working on the drafts and we'll we might get some last calls out out before before the next IDF if not we'll be back here see you again"
  }
]
