[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "yes that's right okay we're gonna go ahead and get started hello i need to be left okay we're going to go ahead and get started how's that that's louder right excellent so if you can go ahead and get your lunch and come on and sit down uh also a reminder even in this session we'd like you to go ahead and scan the qr code if nothing else that will help us plan for lunches in the future um and also i'd like to know who you know roughly how many people are attending um so welcome to the ietf 114 version of working group chairs forum i'd like to remind everybody that this is your forum so any agenda suggestions are always welcome things that you think we ought to be discussing also as a reminder this is the notewell for the ietf this is an official ietf meeting and the notewell does apply a few other reminders"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "since we're having lunch you know when you finish eating put your masks back on but i guess in this particular session uh masks will need to be off for a little while we are also going to use the queue we do have some remote participants so please please do that so this is our agenda for today we have uh an update from our ombuds team an update from our tools team and an update on some of the work that has been ongoing to help improve some of the chairs training and materials uh we will have an open mic at the end we do need to end promptly at 12 45 and then we will need to quickly clean up and exit the room because other meetings come in after us so with that uh pete karen this is spencer could i ask you a question real quick i think i just signed into emo durr with that you did yeah okay we need to figure out thank you all of th this is loop lumped under a modern and we're still working out how we want the tooling to work for the various activities under there i think i am sufficiently loud to speak through a mask so uh we're just here to give our every so often ombuds team reminders uh we being me today because both alison and melinda are off remote so i got to be the stuck e um we're mostly here to remind you that the ombuds team is here to help and are absolutely willing to help chairs out we are if you would like to come to us for advice either in person at the meeting or drop us some email we are glad to advise as we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "we've even been invited by one ad to come to speak to a particular working group that was having some uh issues with people sniping at each other and and you know we're glad to even do that in a sort of non-official capacity but we wanted to remind you more importantly of the division of labor here um we are not the behavior police you'll notice that the way that our rfc is written we do everything behind closed doors lots of confidentiality we are not here to get up at the mic and say stop doing that that's not our purpose shares have the ultimate uh responsibility and authority in rfc 2418 and bcp 25 generally if you haven't read it please do um to address disruptions in working groups you have the ability to disallow someone from going to the mic you have the ability in different circumstances and with different mechanisms to stop people from posting to mailing lists it is your job to stop behavior that is being disruptive to the work of the working group that's not an ombuds team responsibility like i said we are absolutely happy to advise you on how to do that and and work you through the process if you need that help we're all old hands at the ietf processes but please do not expect that the answer to this person's being a jerk is oh go talk to the ombuds team about that this is something that you all as chairs really have to take on when it comes to things like harassment and and by that i mean you know something more interpersonal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "and direct someone making disparaging comments about groups someone doing something off list harassing someone behind the scenes that is something that we want to hear about and please do bring those kinds of issues to us but overall if it's happening on the mailing list and it's disrupting the working group we expect you to take up dealing with that uh if it's something that is more problematic and certainly illegal um come talk to us about that uh finally please do feel free to reach out by email to either the ombuds team address directly or to either any one of the three of us um directly uh the way we generally handle things is if it comes to the ombuds team address we'll assign one of the three of us to deal with it um so that only one person especially if it becomes a true ombuds team issue so only one person is dealing with the confidential information and with that i'd just like to open up the mic if anybody has any questions or problems they've encountered glad to talk about them here any questions or comments somebody dashing to the mic without putting himself in the queue but that's okay yeah sorry because computer and food and sorry um introduce yourself though yes michael richardson here um so thank you for for reminding us that and to the topic of this group i still don't feel we've done some work in the past but i don't still feel don't chairs don't have the training and experience to deal with problem and um i took a training course"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "sometime during the pandemic it's all vague um uh on street harassment called from i hauler back i highly recommend it to everybody it does have things that apply to what you just said disruptive it was more about cat calling in the streets and what people can do that's the kind of training that i'm after okay because it puts us in gives us specific tools even words and sentences that we can use in those contexts when we see them as opposed to oh something bad's happening what do i do now right so that's a specific thing that that i really think we need and i will be happy to send messages to whoever it is i guess emu der's chair about how to do this and uh yeah start in that direction and uh the ombuds team is happy to help out with that training and and find resources um but yeah folks are interested in that and i think it's a good idea um to give you all some tools and maybe come up with some specific ideas about you know for ietf context how best to handle that stuff right good i i think greg uh greg wood will be giving us a little bit of an update on the working group chairs training that's planned for this year that might touch on some of that but if you have specific other additional specific session uh suggestions please feel free to send it to the emo door mailing list the mailing list for this particular form remains working group chairs though so feel free to send it there as well uh hank hi this is hank um so what i heard over the course of the past days is about the encouragement of enticing people to become new blood chairs new influx of pool of cherish and i love the uh notion that if you're afraid of being a chair so to speak try shepherding first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so that but something i would actually actively do in all chat working groups i will talk about the uh quickly talk about the uh possibility to be a chair but if you are not used to that we'll boil down to the become a shepherd we have a lot of documents and any chapters and then they learn all the processes we'll be there for you as the chairs and happy with that and i think that's an excellent way a segway into the uh actual share duty and and i love the idea and therefore yeah i'm an absolute in favor of promoting that thank you and to you know be more directly on this topic if you do bring in shepherds which i think is great um remember that your shepherd does not have the same uh authority that you have as chair so please do uh hold hands of shepherds and make sure that if they are shepherding and someone is getting out of hand that you are the one to you know say to the person to the other person you're interfering with the progress of this working group by misbehaving please don't abuse the shepherd etc and so forth so yeah anything else on the ombuds team behavior topic thank you all next uh we have robert sparks robert you want to go ahead hello everybody i'm really sad i wasn't able to be there in person this time i hope that i'm able to make it to london and visit with people in real time there i wanted to give a quick update on changes to tools uh hopefully you've noticed there have been rather large changes to the look and feel of the data tracker um since the last ietf meeting and i expect the velocity of those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "changes to continue we've moved all of our source control and issue tracking into github under an organization called ietf hyphen tools if you've not been there yet please go visit it if you have issues to report with any of the tools but particularly the data tracker use please use github to report those issues that for some reason you can't or if you think a bigger discussion is needed before you can really identify a specific issue use the tools discuss list so email to tools discuss is always welcome the tools team itself has moved to holding its monthly meetings as interims of the tools group so these meetings show up on the upcoming meetings calendar and are in medico everyone is welcome to join they are open they're recorded the sessions are um available afterwards at um youtube we are keeping our um notes in minutes in the notes.itf site and in the slide deck that i sent a link to to the chairs list yesterday i pointed to one of the recent set of notes and from there you there's a doubly linked list that will take you back through past meetings notes as well um you can look in that slide deck for some of the updates on specific tools the things that i wanted to call out during this meeting was to remind everyone that we're very near the end of the tools.ietf.org transition"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "you're expecting to start redirecting tools.ietf.org completely the week after this meeting um and i fully expect that when we start that redirection some new and unexpected things are going to break please use tools discussed to to help us identify those if and when you run into them so that we can address them going forward one of the last things that we've been working on with the transition from tools is the replacement for the bibxml service at xmlrc.tools.itf.org it's currently running at bib.ietf.org those of you that have been doing a lot of draft work have probably run into issues if you've had references using cram down in particular or v2 to [Music] anything in the oidc section um sorry not all adc um the um oid section um that's being resolved now hopefully we will be resolved before we get into the redirection when we when we get um when we start the redirection next week so i guess one last reminder you run into issues um reporting things at github is great mail to tools discuss is great if there's something urgent like you're at this meeting and you can't log into the data tracker for some reason support ietf.org is always your best"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "channel to use for something needs to get fixed right now all right with that i'm going to stop and take any questions hi sorry this is hank again um that's actually not a question but something um when i was preparing for a working group came up um it's a feature request and it will issue something but i want to maybe communicate it here right now every year we are sorry every measure every session meeting session where we are going to uh do the diff of how the state of the data tracker of our working group with respect to the id state changed to the last meeting so what we're doing is we're going through all the ids checking what has changed we should we should know but but you know you're the meeting and then in a diff tool like from last meeting to this meeting what was the state change of all adopted ids that would be nice i know we should all know this from the top of our head but sometimes we don't so so um and and when we were doing the the the chair slides where i was realizing what would be probably easy to implement maybe i don't know um would be like um uh what's the diff to the last meeting so one quick question with what you've manually prepared is the most interesting thing just the end points the state of the last meeting in the state at this meeting or do you need the transition transitional states in between no no transitional states in between just just the end points just that you crazy that would be a super chair comfy thing you know and i think it might be very easy to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "implement yeah got it okay and happy that you look so well thank you hi uh lou burger sorry i didn't get into queue but uh wasn't fast enough on that phone um chris hopps wrote a tool that does that it's in uh you can just do pip i think it's um working group stats wg stats and you can just install it and uh i don't think he's in the room but maybe i'll send it to the list but i use it all the time for preparing my slides pl please do send the link to the list dave theater so i hadn't thought about this but i think hank is exactly right i think there's actually two different things um i'm not sure which one hank is thinking about but i'm guessing it's the first one which is uh the draft status like the data tracker for a working group says here's all the working drafts and here's the status and so on and so that would be like the mature slides there's also a similar thing that i do when i present a particular draft to a meeting is i want to know the draft diffs between a particular meeting and another meeting right so right now there's a bunch of work to say which version of the draft was it that was the past meeting right because your diff one and diff two links are the current draft against the previous version right but the last meeting could have been four versions back try to figure out which is the version as of the last meeting and then generate the diff url between that one and this one that's actually what i do when i'm preparing slides for a presentation okay and that's actually not easy to do with a bunch of clicks right now there's a lot of manual work right now i think that's the other point that i think is as a draft presenter to say is there an easy way to get a diff between the current version and the version that was presented last meeting and again only the end points right which would be the same thing as as the the the diffing utility right now is great once you get the right url right it's just getting what's the url that says this version to that version is a bunch of extra manual effort right now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "all right thank you any other questions or comments for robert oh running back at the expense of uh suggesting an implementation if you could enter a date to say show me the diffs between this date and today that might be a way of implementing it because you can look up what which draft was posted most recently before that date so being able to enter a date because then you don't have to know what meeting it was or whether it was an interim meeting or a design team call or whatever just enter a date generate me the diffs you can do that from the history yeah yeah as as um don pointed out there are links down in the history but you have to manually compute when the meeting was and go find it and i think that we could make that um a little uh faster and more intuitive so that you don't have to do the middle calculations all right thank you for your time and i hope to see you all soon all right thanks robert uh i see greg's making his way forward so the next subject is information updates uh yeah hi uh greg wood ietf llc staff i've been working on a number of things related to chairs so i'm really pleased to be able to um give a quick update on the three of them uh which i don't have in my head but i think i'll cover them all so uh first on working group chairs training uh as you probably saw we uh had training last year if you were around then and uh it was pretty well received and we learned a lot and so we're uh after"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um some discussion in the emoji group we're going to be doing a version of it this year it's going to take what we learned and um build on that so we're um the format's gonna be slightly different uh we've also assembled a group as we had last year to give us advice on uh how to best structure the training um or the content of the training and we have engaged the same experts training experts to help develop the content and deliver the training so expect some more news about that in the next couple of months we'll have both live interactive sessions and also sort of on-demand modules and i heard the suggestion about a possible content so feel free to send me email about that and those those are expected to be delivered in october november as we as we had last year so happy to take questions on that um the second thing that we were talking about uh is the chairs at itf.org again um just just to remind folks that based on input we had we've combined content from the www.itf.org site that was focused on chairs and also the content on the old chairs wiki enrolled it into a new wiki style platform um at chairs.itf.org so now there's a single source for all the information that you might want as chairs always open to suggestions about how best to organize that and content that we might want to add to that so feel free again to send suggestions along and one of the areas that we're working on there right now is to uh make figure out a way to make sure that that content on a regular basis gets updated and stays relevant so uh what we found with the old chairs wiki is that a lot of the content there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "just had not been updated so we we want a single source of information uh that is always uh up to date and so that's what we're working towards there um then finally uh and related to chairs that it.org and also uh chairs in general uh we have um stood up a new wiki uh itf wide wiki at wiki.etf.org um and this past saturday we held a what we call the content sprint and the idea there is to figure out all the details that we need to figure out to get content from the old track wiki which will be going away uh relatively shortly um so that we can get content from there onto the new wiki.js platform so the the content spent went really well actually exceeded um expectations i think and um we'll write up a summary of that and provide a further update uh about what that means for chairs of research and uh working groups uh as part of the con as part of the sprint we actually moved over a number of working group chair i'm sorry working group um uh wikis from from track to wiki.edf.org and um yeah so that was that was really great um so again that is going to continue and the goal that we've penciled in is to have content uh sufficiently moved over and dealt with so that um we can shut down the track wikis somewhere around or after the next itf meeting so uh yeah and with that i'm happy to take any questions i see charles oh they see charles in person and on mitako q which is fantastic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "okay yeah uh charles eckel thanks for that update um so for the the hackathon we make extensive use of the wiki as well and um i'm wondering if uh you know the format of that's going to be different probably than what each working i haven't looked so much at the working group once but do you think the strategy you're looking at would also be able to bring that over we have a different wiki actually for each hackathon we've had so there's a lot of them and like the meeting wiki i'm just wondering like like how deep do you plan to go in terms of migrating data over yeah so um that's a great question so uh all the wiki content on various track instances is expected to move either move to the new wiki platform which is sort of what we'd like to do for all active content uh which we will do for all active content um so that includes the hackathon wiki uh which obviously we'd work with you and barry and other folks on moving over and also things like the meeting wiki so the itf each ietf meeting has a wiki and we uh one of the things we did is sort of set up the test version for 115 but yeah just to answer your question all the track all the content that's now on a track wiki uh needs to move to um wikijs or if it in the case that it hasn't been you know touched for eight years or nine years archived in some way okay and then you you touched on my second question for ietf 115 the meeting wiki and therefore probably the hackathon would be should we plan on that being in track or uh is there a plan to kind of switch the meeting wiki over uh for 115 you know yeah ideally we'd have the all the wiki's related to events in november on the new wiki platform"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and would want to work with you on the hackathon obviously but the meeting wiki is expected to be on uh wiki.atf.org okay cool yeah cool spencer dawkins and i want to try to say quickly two nice things um greg i have really been impressed every time i've talked to you in the past couple of years about how helpful you have been knowing things about the way things work uh and especially the best way to get things in front of the community uh like when we were doing when we started back up with the hot rc talks that were meet echo only and things like that i'd just like to encourage other people to seek you out because you're a wealth of information uh the other the related thing there probably is that i wonder if there's uh a good way to get you doing a report like this in front of a larger uh audience when that's when that's appropriate uh just because you know like the work you've done getting youtube organized for us i had no idea until you know i said something stupid on a mailing list and you said but spencer you know it now works this way so uh you know you do you actually do things that are very valuable just to think about the best way that the broader community could know about those things before we already needed to know that thank you again well thanks spencer i was expecting the two nice things and then maybe one suggestion for improvement but i'm also happy to talk to anybody so thank you for um making a point of that and uh suggestions for improvement are always"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "welcome as well uh yeah so we want this um all these things to work well for the community and to uh and like emodure just make the ietf work um easier and better for for everybody robert so i wanted to call um attention to some words that charles used in his question that i think greg um reshaped but i want to um reiterate the reshaping charles you asked greg how deep he planned to go or the team that he was running planned to go on content migration and the answer is that he and his direct team have no plans that line what is active has got to come from the subject matter experts for each group for the things that are being moved so the the answer to the the question as you stated literally is is that that that's your you need to figure that out and find people to help greg in the migration to uh to figure out where that line is and what content is is actually um still active versus what is archival yeah thank you definitely need help any other questions or comments nope okay thank you very much um so we whipped right through those three topics at this point we are in uh open mic does anybody have anything they want to raise to the working group chairs in general go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "put yourself in the queue or stand at the queue if that's you can go ahead to the microphone since you waved at me thanks jeff has so this is intended to be a introduction to a topic i suspect we'll want to talk about this more detail either on list or maybe special forum so one of the interesting headaches we're dealing with in idr and this is something we've seen in other working groups as well is you know what happens when you have a contentious topic that you sort of let the process move along and rather than converging on a single solution you can converge on more than one and you know this is really not a thing that's unique to idea you know i think we've seen this in other working groups such as spring and other places as well so i'm not going to go into any specific details about the headaches and just talk about the more general details and see what people think about it the issue that we tend to have in terms of our processes is we want to have technical discussion move and ideally we converge on a single solution because the majority of time it's a healthier thing for you know the industry and the people using the stuff that we produce the challenge that we have is that uh sometimes you know the there's multiple incentives for us to not converge on a single solution and eventually if things are left alone for long enough you know the divergence into multiple solutions gets the multiple deployments and there's really not a chance to do that convergence that's that's just basically the way things work and sometimes that's the healthiest way for things to go the proposal i want to throw out and get feedback from the other chairs here is in these sorts of circumstances what might make sense as a process is that when we start seeing that these you know things are starting to happen and usually you can get a feel for this in the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "the participants and you know how they're sort of separating themselves at the various camps rather than letting the various camps go off into their own and diverge and potentially never reconverge it may make sense in some circumstances to simply have the working group force adoption of the topic and allow the work to you know basically happen in the context of the working group and if you want your solution to move forward you have to cooperate with all the participants basically force the thing that sometimes happens at the tail end of the rfc process and clearly there's especially when there's a strong disagreement with how things could go this may delay things going forward at all and depending on your protocol and what your code point allocation strategies look like you know the itf allocation processes they allow people to simply move off into their own stuff anyway so the topic i started about a q is what do people think about this idea that as a mechanism to try to sort of head off this sort of disagreement let's you know sort of encourage people to have this discussion at upfront maybe discourage allocation of code points you know that allow these things to happen okay so um i'm guessing the next two people in queue are not on this subject so is there anybody that wants to comment on this specific subject with apologies to the two people behind them in line in the queue so apologies i'm the other one of the other idr chairs let me put a bit of weight on that uh we've spent the last month and a half trying to work on it our email is what oh it doesn't work that way okay sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "you got a lot more work if you don't take that approach we found it was lots of work and apparently i'm not really good talking through a mic so any other thoughts on this topic i think it would be useful i don't i don't remember exactly who suggested the link to the external training for conflict resolution i think that might be helpful and i also think the training that greg is giving is is going to address that topic so at least parts of that topic it won't address specifically what you're talking about jeff but maybe we should have some follow-up offline conversation on it um i think charles you charles go ahead okay and uh if i can share my screen too i think it might be a little more helpful um because i wanted to ask this charles eccle i wanted to point to uh or call out just one of the many cool features that have been added to the the data tracker and um i don't know how many of you are familiar with it i mentioned it in the hackathon and i have a couple slides that that i can send to the list if we don't get them up here but um under in github you can um sorry in the data tracker you can uh just a second while i try to share my slides here okay great i'll make it so in the data tracker there's this field it's kind of a little small there but additional resources"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "and if you click on it one of the things you can do is you can add related implementations and just to give you an idea this again is small it should go forward hasn't advanced yet up there but um you know in addition to attaching a github repo you can also attach a related implementation huh that's weird that it's not working sorry about that um so we try to use this in the hackathon and encourage people hey if you're working on some code related to a working group draft or an rfc or an individual draft um please go ahead and and add it uh using this related implementation so people are able to find it and but one of the challenges is if it's not an individual draft they actually can't do it themselves they have to go to their working group chair and then you can do it for them and i think for some people just that one extra step they either you know that keeps them from doing it so i don't know how much that's happening but in any case as a working group chair if you can encourage people to use this functionality maybe when someone brings a draft in an individual draft or something when it gets added to your um your working groups list of things if you can ask them hey is there any code associated with this and if so help them to get this field set up uh i think it'd be great and so just uh thanks spencer dawkins i got up to say something else but i'd like to agree with what charles just said and and say i'm seeing now you know now that we're meeting uh in in person in hybrid meetings i'm i'm more aware of new participants who are bringing concrete proposals to the ietf with code"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "behind them i can imagine for a new participant the idea of asking working group chairs to do anything might be kind of intimidating uh they will be less intimidated soon but just like i say just adding that is a another reason for uh charles to say you know have the working group chairs encouraging people to do that the thing i actually got up to say was now with two itf's hybrid ietf meetings behind us i'm wondering if there are if there's any additional guidance that we can give to people who are doing buff meetings especially working group forming boff meetings in a in a hybrid meeting environment um one of the conversations i was having in jabber with the people from mock was you know can you ask who in the room agrees with this and we get up and say roughly the same thing so that they're not having to chase plus ones all over the place but you know just to ask a question like that i don't know if that's good advice but it seems like it would be good for people who are smart about sharing meetings and things like that who have good ideas like the working group chairs to uh be thinking about that between now and november thank you wes hertika uscisi and one of the guides leads spencer i want to follow your note with another one saying you know it's really important that working group chairs figure out how to help newcomers get involved but but even to a bigger area one of the things i realized especially for the buff i ran yesterday is a lot of times we have newcomers coming to the ietf to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "bring their work and their ideas and we have this notion in the ietf sometimes of well that's an area that we don't work in well how does the ietf expand if we don't figure out how to add new topics in new areas it may not be things that we work in but we have sort of the expertise to help them bring that in right and that this happens a lot for for especially new boss that come in that that are entirely new areas of work and then we should figure out how do we help them integrate even if it may be a new topic in a new area for ourselves paul valkos uh emodia reviewer apparently so uh this quick question um i'm not sure what an emoji reviewer is i guess it's an artifact of being part of the emu i can't hear you that's secretary sorry um i just noticed that it says emudia reviewer behind my name and west's name and so i'm assuming that it's just being part of the uh emo director because we don't do reviewing right right it's it's one of the things where the emoji directorate is called the directorate but it doesn't look like other directorates and so it that okay that's sort of there's some issues there i mean it's the same reason why this meeting fell under emodure because of the way yeah okay so i mean we need to work on that but sure sure i know that that's not why i was coming to the microphone um i was actually i wanted to talk a little bit about the previous topic of the uh implementation section um we do have an implementation status section in the draft it would be nice if the data tracker could either warn via the idnit's tool to say that there are implementations listed in the data tracker but you did not specify them in a draft or even better to maybe generate the code for the implementation section draft when it's based on the data in the data tracker okay thank you yeah i want to talk about um issues besides meetings that we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "this week so um outside meetings we're trying to be remote friendly and it's really challenging so i don't know if this is the right forum to discuss this or talk about this but i was wondering if there's a way to kind of help us kind of enable that meeting to be remote friendly not asking for full support from me deco but somehow to allow us to easily allow remote participation because it was really kind of challenging this week uh durov i i do think to the issue of side meetings and open participation inside meetings is something that could probably use further discussion i didn't i'm just not sure what the answer is at this point durov did you want to join sorry i think that's my mistake oh his mistake okay all right any other questions or comments for this forum all right uh with that oh wait i see i guess so i'm not clear on how to proceed from here like what what do i need to do to kind of have is that a discussion or some some way to get help with that so what is the right course of action here um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "i i'm not and i mean it it's to a certain extent it's a resourcing issue uh so i i don't know how um i i'm pausing i see somebody slowly walking up behind you alexa thank you we'll see if we have the same answer uh this is alexa my um closer understanding is that it is an isg decision and so this is this needs to be taken up with the isg who's been they've been pretty clear they don't want to provide a lot of support for side meetings uh formal support but it's something that should be raised with the isg okay thank you uh pete are you going to the queue barry levi i can say something that lars told me the other day okay that they're working on getting a different skin on the on meat echo that would make it clear that this is a side meeting and not an ietf meeting and that that might be the way forward with this so that they could then provide meat echo for that but that's early stages right now so it's it's in their queue this is pete par part of the issue is that the more side meetings get official uh recognition by the ietf lots of other uh procedural things start to kick in so the iasg has always been of the mind that you want to keep these things very separate the initial idea was we're providing room space only because it was available anyway and so that would be convenient but if you start doing well we want the ietf tools available in the room with audio support with remote participation it starts to become an officially sanctioned thing and that's the concern of the isg so the more we can provide but make it clear that it's separate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "that that's a possibility just one more point um about that is it's you know i think we can hear that uh you know please we would like some help with side meetings um what would be a lot more helpful than that is uh specifics about exactly what kind of help would be most helpful like what what exactly are the pain points and then you know maybe as pete said they can be addressed or maybe they can't be um and you can you know talk in the mic or put any email to iesg at or whatever works for you go ahead go i just wanted to um say plus one to what john said about that one of the things that we're trying to train people to do in the hot rc talks is to be very clear about what kind of help you're asking for you know do you do you want somebody with a certain kind of expertise do you want collaborators do you want implement or something like that i think that trying to uh have that same mindset for side meetings may be very helpful also you know is this a is this a general knowledge sharing thing is this uh you know we want to work on a charter together whatever but just to say what what's the ask for people who come to the meeting sorry the ask is the ask is a i want to be able to allow remote participation i'm not asking for full support for miteiko maybe that the idea of a light miko meat echo is is the right answer but i instead of me dealing with the audio not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "working mute this unmute that took 10 15 minutes just to figure it out if we can have that setup at least no again not asking for full support maybe that that the me take a light is the right answer i don't know but if i schedule a meeting or or a webex or whatever i want to be able to allow those remote participation right that's all i'm asking right okay i think we've heard that this is something the isg is looking at and so but we can probably expect some additional information at some point in time are there any more topics for open mic okay with that i'd like to go ahead and adjourn this meeting please be sure to take your garbage because there'll be another working group in here at the at in 25 minutes i used yeah great it doesn't have all the locations um not a director"
  }
]
