[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:39",
    "text": "To Akira who's, an incoming chair So, Dave, if I could jump in, I wanted to also form welcome and congratulate you, Kira. Thank you for your willingness to to serve, to help us progress this working. Congratulations on the appointment. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Roman, for sending help. Next slide, please. So this is the IATF Noelle. It governs all the work that we do. Plea please let us know if you have any, questions. By now, you've probably seen this few times this week. I'll pause if there's any questions. Alright. Next slide, please. Living the IETF code of conduct. Just a a few brief reminders. We expect, to be respectful and courteous, during an IETF meeting, Oh, We we're really working here to devise solutions to global, internet problems. We need a variety of opinions to achieve that. And we asked that you roll up your sleeves and prepare to contribute to, the ongoing work. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "So we have a few administrative tests today that we need to handle, we get a couple of note taker volunteers in the audience? The we're taking, notes and the IETF notes at anyone willing to volunteer? To to we're happy to send Yes. Happy to wait until we have an Ed taker. Anybody notetaker? I can't see everyone in the room to call on someone Rass, are you able to help us with notes? I see you. He said, okay. Perfect. I see is that Tyrone in the background? Are you willing to help us with listen back up notes when rest is at the mic. You're being nominated. Yeah. Alright. Thank you. Alright. Then I'm gonna carry next slide, please. So, today, we have a pretty full agenda Any agenda bashing? So, hi. This is Roman, Roman responsible AD, but responsible AD for certain documents. Is mud we gonna talk about suit mud at all I think we have that 6 thumbnail agenda. Should have plenty of time to get to that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Yep. Mostly, I just wanted to talk about where we are to kind of adjudicate you know, given that we're in ISG review, with discusses, and it's on. Yeah. Perfect. Thank you. Alright. Not hearing any concerns with the agenda. Let's get started. Next slide, please. So I wanted to give a quick update on our current drafts. So we have We've had updates, this cycle on all of our drafts. I really appreciate the authors, with know, the hard work in between meetings The suit manifest format, that has been sent to the ISG we've got some validating on this draft. There's a few discusses here. That, we need to, declare up there's also some questions about the Shepherd write up, but I believe Russ, you you might submitted that that we need to clear up. We'll talk about that during that segment of the session. We have, the manifest extensions for trust domains, we are waiting, on go ahead to do a working group last call, I believe, on on thought thought thought document. We have, firmware encryption, for suit manifests, this is completed last call. There were some comments on this draft This draft is, a dependency on, few other drafts. So we need to get this into, to the ISG, queue. My hope is that we can wrap up business on that. Today. Reporting of update status, I think this is work that has also been updated, but, we still need to progress that draft. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "This is also with the ISG. There's a discuss that's remaining against that. That needs to be addressed. I think we have a similar problem with the shepherd write up that we, that we need to address there. We'll talk about that. The COVID MTI, this is also dependency, We have think gotten to a point where we've achieved, working group consensus it yes. Yeah. Your voice was a little bit breaking out, but it's recovered now. Oops. Oh, We lost them. Is Dave gone? Yes. He's gone. Yes. He's gone. Well, AES counter CBC mode. Says with the RFC editor, It's been published. Excuse me. It's 90 Fortnite. 59 or 49 whatever ice. Of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:05",
    "text": "94 Disconnected. I think that you hear me? Yes. Sorry about that. And, I don't know if anything was discussed while I was away. I just last wanted to touch on update management. We're looking to, To move that forward, we wanna confirm working group census on that today. Next slide, please. Mhmm. So the for us. Think we're That's that's the last page. Any? It's on the draft, status while we But the next one will First one will be when when when Randon's Which one's next. Yeah. Manifest. We should have, manifest format up And we have Brandon. Good to see you, Brenda. I'll try to do it. Alright. Go ahead, Brenda. Alright. I've requested, slides. I'm just wondering if that will work here. Your your slide is, showing Yes. Okay. Well, then I'll just I'll I'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Ask for advances then. Next slide, please So the primary thing here, it will we did, updates from the AD review. Thank you again, Roman, for your extensive review on that. So we have Taking into account the the feedback that you gave us, and, the primary thing that we did this time around was added a mapping from the requirements that were defined you know, RFC 9124. To the manifest features. So this means that everything in the manifest information model is now has an entry in, the security requirements section, of the manifest draft, and it's clearly defined whether or not each particular element of that is implemented in the it manifest draft itself, or whether it is implemented somewhere else or whether it's not implemented at all or TBD. So, particularly, we, highlight as I said, the missing route elements, and direct to appropriate extensions where possible. There were also several editorial updates that went into that. Next slide, please. So there's, new discusses that, showed up at the endofFebruary there's a number of editorial things that need to be sorted out. We need some clarifications on the instructions to export review there's a few, sections where it sounds like IANA wasn't certain whether we were looking at, using expert view or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "vacation required. So we need to, nail that down and make sure that it's clear there's a a couple of elements of, editorial, improvements where we've need to update some references, fix or add some terminology. And remove the the second section where negative integers are defined in Ana section that just needs to come out. But there's a a possibly bigger question here, which hits around the use of URI references So URI references are used, and highlighted in the manifest format, pretty extensively. It was brought up during discussion that these, may preclude the use of UTF 8 and, therefore, intranet that being the case, the question that I have for the working group, is should we be using IRIs instead? If we're not using URLs, should we be using IRIs? I'm And if there's if that's not the case, then, should we be using something else? Or how are we going to handle interim internationalization of URIs. So if there's any feedback from the working group, this would be a great time have it. I think my proposal essentially is if we are going to go ahead nationalization, we should probably reference IRS in RFC 39 87 rather than URI references from RFC 3986. Any feedback on this? Brandon, dep, It sounds like we Probably should follow your"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "you know, you're your option of using IRIs. Can we confirm that on the list just to make sure that, You have consensus on that approach? Sure. Alright. Another point that was raised in these discussions was it highlighted that some of the informative references we've made contain normative text, and, essentially things like if you're going to encrypt, do it this way. And that sounds very much like a normative reference, even though we've made it informative. And, so there was a question as to whether we should be changing some of these extension drafts to normative references. Now, when we originally made the choice to make them informative, That was a timing question as really what we were trying to do was make sure that the manifest got published as soon as we could. And that the rest of these would come later. So, I guess the question I have here is how are we going to handle that going forward, but I think there's some more on that on the next slide, Yes. Excellent. I don't I did remember that. Right. Right. So We're there are a fair number of editorial updates that are coming into then then as into the this draft as a result of the discussion. So this is going to take a bit of time, unfortunately. I thought we were closer to being done. But we need to get through and make sure these these discussion points are cleared. And and as I've mentioned, we definitely need the the working group input"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "on internationalization. And, I think that IRS is are probably the right answer? And there there seems to be some conversation in in the the Jira channel to suggest. To support that. We also need to make a decision as to whether we going to change to normative references and create, probably a fairly large cluster So, if there's feedback from the working group on whether change those references to normative. I would appreciate that feedback as well. But I guess we can defer that to the list if no one has any immediate comments. Next slide, please. The the Pardon me before we move on, I was just gonna ask if, if remnant or our AT's have any guidance for us on on what we should do as far as clustering. I know a lot of the deep drafts depend on on these, So there could be some impact timing wise there. Hi. This is Roman again, not your responsible ID, but your AD for your documents. Yeah, generally, you'll notice with both this document And on the the mud document, there is concern by the ISG about about clustering in that they would like to see some of the dependencies kind of done together. So, for example, the Mud document is largely just blocking with the discuss kind of on this one. I think the references really do see normative especially around how to do the security things. Correctly, but you're also you're also correctly observed that this will create the I'm I'm in a sense not sure how how you plan to kind of decouple it. So I'm not sure it is decouplable. My"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "My big concern, with with regards to this, I don't think it'll create a a delay because frankly, I think it's close enough to done but what happens with the MTI draft going forward. And we've always assumed that MTI was going to get revved pretty soon, arguably as as soon as NIST standardization of PQC, algorithms are it is is done to the point that you know, make an update there. But, So, obviously, that won't be a cluster because that's a new draft that replaces an old one. I guess just curious how that's going to get that thing is going to impact this. Brennan, are you asking me? Yes. Oh, well, if maybe I'm not understanding to the documents kind of in play. There's the MGI document as we have it, and then you're envisioning there would be an to the MTI document. I almost certainly, Okay. So I I think in that case, your intuition seems exactly right. Which is whatever is that update is some document in the future and we probably shouldn't be considering that. We have an MPI document with a certain kind of set of guidance Let's get that one moving as quickly as we can. Since that impacts what we're doing here with suit manifest, and then we can push the, at least, these three Alright. Let's go to the next slide, please. Okay. So this is sort of the there's some background here, we can 1 of the, the following draft the, multiple trust domains draft is going to raise the question of, separating the fetch and install procedures. Essentially the argument that I'm going to make in the next, presentation is that the update procedure is actually notionally to sub procedures. There's a procedure for fetch. And a procedure for install."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Now that's going to be important if we have fetching happening separately, like in a separate trust domain, from installation. For example, if you're doing differential update using a dedicated installer image. Now that means that in the multiple trust domains draft, we're going to have to define a candidate verification update or, sorry, command sequence. The reason I'm talking about that here is because of the impact it might have back on to the manifest draft itself. Next slide, please. So, so, This is the the question, essentially, what it does to the ordering of candidate verification and install. Suit command sequences are currently in numerical order. And the idea behind this is that it It's by pole parsing, because this, allows the parser to use the, deterministic encoding of seaborne and have all of the com the the elements that it processes, it correct order, when deterministic encoded. The the issue that we have here is that if we insert a new command sequence that needs to happen. Before install, Well, we don't have a space between fetch and install. Fetch is 16 install of 17. So the question to the group, and and this has already been brought to the list, But the question to the group is, Should we change the key, for install. To a lo a later number. I've already, As I said, I've already brought this to the list. There was no feedback at all except"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "from the, the contributor who asked for candidate verification in the first place. It seems late for a change like this. But, I'd like to see if there's any feedback in the room for changing install. To to be clear, to remember it. No. I don't think that my, next slide has a has a proposal on the number, that I would change it to, yeah, no, it doesn't. The the proposal that I have is that fetch would move to 18 Oh, sorry, 19 and candidate verification would move to 18. And the reason for this is so that an implementation that today expects 17 won't find something it doesn't expect. And we also leave ourselves a space for the future. So we have Hank up in the queue. I'm sorry. Brief lead it. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. This is Hank. I'm not wearing a badge. I apologize. I for losses somewhere. I'm okay with your proposal because there was no strong pushback. I I agree. It's very late in the game, and that is weird. But, If we don't get any I wanna say implement his complaints. I think your solution is absolutely okay. I am I would just want it. Although I have a weird got feeling that it's somehow not okay. I would say if there's no pushback, it's okay. Ruben, are are you chopping in To come in on this?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "Russ, next. So my view is the opposite of Hank's is this is way late One guy with nobody pushing back, no. I think we're so late in this stage that there ought to be significant support for the change. Hi. Roman is responsibility for this document. Yeah. I mean, we are in we are in ISG review. We've already valid is and we're adding new features there needs, I mean, something needs to be broken to motivate us making these changes because Sorry. I need to clarify. This is not a feature change to this draft. There are no features being added here. The feature is being added to a different draft. The question is whether the keying needs to change in this one. To enable it to work better. What would the impact be if we didn't make this change here. Right. That is the right question. The the impact is, A question about whether we can continue to use terministic encoding and get the results that we want from it. It means that your parser skips around rather than working linearly through the document. Right. And this is because of the sequencing of the fetch versus the install. Right? That's correct. Just to to the point that there hadn't been a lot of feedback. That's why I I bring it up here. In the jabber, there is feedback now, thankfully. But, again, we're still looking at, three pieces of feedback now in total rather than a lot. So, we have, a plus 1 and an as an implementer, the key doesn't matter. So I I don't wanna make a game time decision because I don't feel like I have information as the scope and scale, of what we're talking about."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "Maybe I can talk to the working group chairs because depending on the size of this, we may need a working group last, another working group kind of consensus check I don't know the size and scale that we need another IETF last call check. Understood. I said, right to say that the renumbering this is basically just numbering of the, IDs within within the model, That is correct. It is renumbering a of just changing install from 17 to 19. That's the only question. Really? Is it? The west So I observed on some confusion, about how big this, this kind of changes. Is it possible maybe to be very concrete on what that text would look like. It might be easier for us to have. More confidence and less concerned. I think it was text on the mailing list. Right? Yeah. Yes. I wonder if we could bring that up right now. Yeah. Yeah. Brendan, do you have that text in front of you? You can do you not have it immediately in front of me, but I can drop a link into the chat momentarily. Sorry. This will just take me a moment. I should have had that ready. My apologies."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:10",
    "text": "I'm actually I've got it. 2, 2, Okay. So now that I have the text, hopefully, I can pull up the mail archive link. There. Okay. This this There we go. Ken? In in the chat oh, There we are. It's okay. Yeah. Brenda's, home and came out first. Okay. I'm gonna share my screen I think security needs to stop sharing. Yes. Just a minute. Okay. So effectively, it if I'm right, this is the change that you're suggesting. Right? That was precisely it. I think I said 20 in that one instead of 19. I got added Oh, extric digit just for the or an extra element just for the the sake of padding things out of it. So any Met. That we have a clear indicator of the change, anyone have any for their comments on this?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:08",
    "text": "Is is Deb in the room? Does she have any feedback for us? Hi. Deb is not in the room in I I don't believe she's online. They're gonna be able to join us for this session. Okay. Okay. Well, I guess we're gonna have to I think we've had some positive support, in the room and on that, for, for the change. I think we'll discuss this with, a tab. And, And then figure out what to do next. On unless so I'll follow-up with her, after after the meeting Brendan, I can give Sharon back if you wanna continue. Okay. I think that was the the last question for a suit manifest so we can probably move on to the next one. Pipe room Engineering So, just jumping in without logging in. Sorry. I just wanted to note an administrative thing based on validings. So Sue manifest has gone the ISG. Were in the position where we had enough ballots to ask if the discusses were clear. However, with the ISG turnover yesterday and the fact that the discusses were not clear. The outgoing ADs, their ballots have disappeared. So there are now not enough ballots for it to pass even if all of the discussed feedback were to be addressed. And that means that I'm gonna add a future ISG future tell chat, you could bring this document back or try to find 2 more eighties to support this. So what that practically means for the working group in terms of kind of processes that there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "the possibility that 2 more ADs may give you feedback. Potentially up to 3 on this document. So more inbound commentary. Coming. Coming Thanks for the heads up. So this is still Henk. Trust me. That's a clarifying questions. So whatever we do, we lost these two ballots in any case, So that's actually a benefit. So we can get 2 new fresh inputs on this and they might be positive And then it's all good. Wow. That is the most charitable version of the ISG review. That's wonderful. That would be wonderful. The way that I would frame it is the the the two discusses that So there is comment level feedback, some of which has been addressed phenomenal. Kind of thank you for the response There is 2 there are 2 discusses have not been addressed that needs to be done. Just wanted to to warn the working group that there is not surprise that if those two discusses are addressed that the working would think we're done, we can kind of proceed. I just wanted to provide advanced warning. There is the 2 more ADs need to either put about it. It is highly likely they will have more feedback for you. There's a little bit more work to to likely do. And it may be depending on how I bring this back, up to 3 3 more eighties, maybe 4. Okay. But we'll deal with that. When it comes. Thank you. Alright. So we're ready to move on to the next draft. We have trust me. Trust domains. But, Sean, I don't think we So it's the main This is the one we did have slides for. Yes. The, yeah, the trust amazed is the one we don't have at the slide. They don't? Oh, We should."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "Brendan, do you have on your side? Just double checking. Yes, I do. Okay. Then Yeah. You could share your screen now. Okay. And if you could post these to the data tracker right after you know, I, I thought I had Sorry. Just one moment here. Is that sharing properly? Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. Grains. Grains. Course. Alright. We see candidate verification sequence. There. Perfect. Alright. We're here. So there are 2 major changes since V5. First, we removed delegation chains, and we moved It's at to a a new, draft in the cozy working group, So that is now going to the the draft you have there. This is because it's a generic approach to delegation of authority, and so it probably belongs in cozy rather than in suits. That would be a bit weird for us to find a delegation of authority document here when it's a generic tool that should exist in cozy anyway."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "We also added candidate verification, as that adds several new use cases, as I've mentioned previously, the So The the big change is in this question of trust change between fetch and install. So if you have a trust domain transition that occurs between stages. For example, if you have fetch happening in some kind of a client application, whereas install happens in a dedicated installation app. That would be a good example of where you might have a trust domain transition. So for example, this might allow you to use a staging area smaller than your active firmware. And you would then be able to decompress from the staging area into the active area. Now that matters a lot when you have flash and energy constrained devices. So for example, to get to to explain why the energy constraint might be relevant ear, Laura, for example, requires 10 times as much energy to save a byte as to write it to flash. So compression is highly likely to get used, And designers are go if they have that available, are very likely to want to reduce the amount of staging that they use in order to, you know, only use the staging that's necessary. It's also gonna be important for differential updates. Because if you don't have a staging area and this this reboot to install sort of approach, that's going to mean needing both a staging area and too active. Possible active areas and that makes things, a lot more complex. So what that means is that we're probably going to need candidate verifier he's So after a trust domain transition, we have to re"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "verify So to give you an example, If we reboot into an installer, It introduces new vulnerabilities. First, you have a time of check time of useful vulnerability. So while your client application may well have verified, that everything, all the payloads, it's fetched or correct, that doesn't provide any guarantee that that flash has not changed between that client check And when the installer boots, 2nd, it introduces a privilege escalation if the client can write arbitrary content into the staging flash, and the installer just consumes it that gives the client the same privilege level as the installer. And that's likely not what's intended. So the mitigation for both of these vulnerabilities is re verification. The installer verifies at time of use, and verifies that the authority of the Snyder is correct for installation. So what that means is that we need a candidate verification sequence. That will allow it to compare each component to the affected Digest. It wouldn't have any fetch copy or swap permitted. This is a verification sequence only. We would then need to That happened before install does, of course. Otherwise, it's not much use. The proposal, actually, I, I clearly have, slipped on the proposal because the, as we just sign the text I proposed to the list, these were 1920, not 1819. Apologies for the slip up there. The current installation key is, 17. So we're looking at 19 candidate verification, which is not what you see on your screen. And 20 for installation, which is also not what you see on your screen. This would Right. I'm just a checkpoint. Can you correct me this in the slides before you upload text, Absolutely."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "So this would ensure that current implementations detect the inflation is is not there. It's moved to a new location. It would also open up for space future expansion if that were needed, though I do hope that No more, Instruction sequences are needed. Recently. Right. That's that's it. That, that is where we are. If The working group comes to the consensus that we can't move installation because it is too late in the game. Then what this will mean is that the Parser needs to skip over installation, Then do candidate verification and then skip back to installation Now that's not a huge ask for the parser, but it is unfortunate. I can't actually see the screen since I'm presenting, so, I will ask if there's any questions. So this was discussed quite a bit on the list and, yeah, there was fairly good consensus there. On on this change assuming we can make the underlying manifest change are there any concerns in the room around We're on doing this. So not hearing any, We need to clear the ISG issue around, yeah, making making this change, but it sounds like, We've already confirmed on the list. Of that this is good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "So assuming that happens, we should probably move forward with this. And the the current draft has been updated to reflect this. Right? Yeah. Indeed. So, as I said, the, the 2 major changes since version 5 are we removed delegation chains, and we added the candidate verification sequence. So so, the question that's being brought here just, key in question that the rest of the changes have been made. Right. So if, the current changes in the draft are good, next step would be to, to do a shepherd right up and to request, publication does anyone have any again, you know, given that, we have to resolve the, the manifest change here. I'm assuming that that happens Does anyone have any concerns with, with moving this document forward Okay. So I'm not hearing any. A Dave Fowler, you're you're in, And the the room, I believe, We had talked before about maybe you were with the original document shepherd on this, would, would you be willing to shepherd this draft this is Dave. And, yes, I'm still willing to act as a document shepherd if that would be useful. Yeah. That would be helpful. So can we note, Once we clear the, the issues around this that the day of will, do the Shepherd right up. Note that in the notes. you, Dave. Thank Alright. Well, we'll we'll try to clear this issue and, that we can move this forward said, thanks. Brandon and and and all for all your hard work on this. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "I think up next, we have firmware encryption. Oh, next is for my encryption. Just a minute. K. Okay. Can you hear me? Yes. Go ahead, Kim. Okay. Yes. Try Oh, Please go ahead, Kenny. Whenever you're ready. Oh, On my laptop, I cannot see any slide. Yeah. We're on the title slide at the moment. Okay. So next slide, please. Okay. This is the status of this document. And, we have changed a little bit bigger. So there are some reasons because, We have updated examples and, you know, in the and So, and we need another update for the the example, if the value for the key value for install has been changed. So And And there are some feedbacks from, three people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "And, lastly, the document are was was restructure it. So me try to explain it. Next slide, let Please. Okay. Now all examples are generated with Python code if you can see in slide, So it's it's Python, code, and And every examples, tech, So means the it Grammar, CDDA, Grammarie checked, and the The binary matters, the CDDL, Grammar, cddl notation. Okay. So maybe I believe it is important for reviewers. That the examples are correct. To to detect, the examples are correct. Next night, please. I'd like to talk about more, here. Thank you, Christian. Maybe you in your home? Okay. Remote. Okay. There was a review from Christian so is only that I saw the the the digest on this slide, his his reviews are more and more, but, would like to talk about only two things here. It was not clear the reason why the structure must be a tier ranks, by strength. So as we use AES CTR mode and AES CVC mode, we cannot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "at any, AD so, additional authenticated data. So in we had added some, extra explanation explanation for it here. And, another comment, more and more flashes are protected and, written at pays level So we had this, or a larger unit. So l. Next slide, please. And, they were in another review from Root. I'm not sure his pronunciation. And And, Yeah. He asked a lot, and we had to add more and more explanation here. So one one needs, added remark that beside competency of the binary, competency of sources may be required. So okay. So that, You can see The text, in the, green box. So the point is that, Yeah. So, why why their payload encryption is needed? It is because, of course, the potent is and inside the payload is important. But also We need to some some want to prevent reverse engineering So what what kind of binary"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "or library is used in the payload. So the And next one is it His comment was, is the goal for and humidity during transportation. Bora when at rest, stored inside the device. It was not clear. So I we added some sentences, here. Next slide, please. This one is from Michael Richardson Thank you, Michael. We added A mensin on multiple checks. So if If there is multiple key encrypts and keys, We can reduce, the attack surface And his, from his notable, comments we've added, guidance for use case and key configuration in table format So please check. Whether the table, matches you as you want. Next slide, please. And this is a final slide, I think, We've restructured, the the document, because the examples were scattered in multiple levels. So It was before Left one is before. And right one is the the after. So you as you can see,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "the examples are, pushed into content encryption section. Next slide, please. So we believe that we are ready for submitting to IAC. Thank you. Thank you, Ken. Are there any Concerns in the room that haven't been addressed the authors. Specifically if any of the, reviewers are on the line. If you could confirm the then you're good with the updates. I have Kir and I both gave this draft to review and, And we think, it's ready to to press. We can confirm that on the list. Since we've haven't yet heard from the reviewers, We'll do that. If we could add that to the notes, At this point, I think we need to start preparing the shepherd right up for the draft which we can do concurrently with confirming consensus Makara, are you volunteered to, right, right up the shepherd right up. For this. Uh-huh. Yes. And Russ is in the queue. Oh, this is Russ. Go ahead. Please please please please please Hi. I'm I think we have confirmed on the list. Like, three times. This thing's been a lost call for for Over a year. it has. Great. Right. And That's stimulated a lot of conversation. But right now, everybody says they're happy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "So hit the button. Alright. So we'll do that, after have the Shepherd right we up. Alright. Well, thank you for all the hard work on this draft. Snew it to the ASG. Thank you. I think next up, we have student reports. And I'm back. Next please. slide, So, there's 2 major changes since on major spin, etcetera. There's 2 changes since, version 7. First capability report now has an entry in the report report previously, it was included in the draft. But not included in the actual structure of capability report. The second, item is that there's a generic failure reasons, which has been added to the the cape the suit This is intended to be sufficient for logging report. without exposing a vast amount of detail, So, this is fairly generic classes of failures. Next slide, please. So here's a summary of the different failure reasons. In the last, AETF meeting, Russ, pointed out very clearly that the The excessive reporting of, failure reasons could lead to a mechanism to probe for possible attack vectors. So as a result, I've tried to be quite generic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "in terms of what we actually do report and so the proposal is here. We've got a a few generic types of of errors And, as you can see, we're looking at very minimal error reporting from Kozy where that, that that particular problem would be at its worst, I expect. And, and also from seaborne. We don't really want people probing for, parcel vulnerabilities. So if there is an air you know that there's a parse error and that is all. There are more in-depth, reporting for, or, reporting reasons for suit errors themselves. And Those will give enough detail, hopefully, to be able to understand what's going on in the suit report kind of a kind of way Next slide, please. So my my belief is that all of the review comments for this draft have now been incorporated. Are no pending issues on GitHub So I think that we are ready to move it forward. So Kieran and I talked about this. I believe yesterday. Oh, I think we're gonna start our working group last call. On, on the draft given that all the work is done. Any any concerns with moving forward with them. Thanks, supporting moving it forward. Alright. So we'll do that. We were thinking maybe we would do 2 or 3 weeks for the working group last call, which would have it end on April 5th or April 12th."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "You know, given that there's some travel for this IITF, maybe 3 weeks would be good with the ending the working group last call on on 12th, So we'll do. that's what Next up, we have, sickman. Alright. Next slide, please. So changes since v7 there are some editorial changes and clarifications We've incorporated some of the changes from the, the discussed items there are more terms that are defined or as imported from other RFCs, there are no really substantial changes. Next slide, please. So there are a couple of pending updates on discuss items. There's a clarification against the mud manager I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, exactly sure, whether that is something that we can solve in this draft, so that's a bit of another question. Maybe we need to put a little bit of text in there to explain that, what's going on with respect to essentially moving the attack surface from devices to the pod manager and that is indeed the desired effect. We do need to improve the clarification a little bit on u r I to suit. And, essentially pointing out that updates to the URI are tied to, you know, occurring simultaneously to dates to the firmware. And that there's a benefit to doing that. Whereas, the other, approach that gets discussed, including the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "mud URI in the device certificate, does decouple it and could lead to incompatibility during firmware updates. The other question is whether the s that that came up was whether the suit report which would contain the mud URI, and I feel after some of the previous discussion, I am compelled to ask whether that should be an IRI instead we have someone at the queue. Yeah. Dave in the queue. The answer the answer of that your question, Brennan, is no. In other words, what you're passing product call should always be a URI if you want the longer version, here's some teasers. IRI. Is, fraught with a number of problems including the fact that, what was specified by the TF is not what people actually implement IRIs are meant for display purposes. URIs is what's actually meant for actual, you know, resolving and passing around protocols and things. And so I don't see any reason something should be an your URI can already encode non ASCII character. It's just percent encoded and so on. You don't need all the extra from IRI, which actually has a bunch of interoperability issues associated with it. So That would be good feedback to pass to, back to several folks who, have mentioned that the that that we should consider international because there there was an open question as to whether you specifying URI's prevented internationalization. So that sounds to me like get back to that particular something can that reviewer. you It it doesn't But here, the real question is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "Is there a is there a case that you'd actually want to given that the mud URI isn't display for humans. It's not the primary purpose. Right? The primary purpose, like, for us is to go into that. Edge stuff. Right? Stuff. Right? And so it's not like you're looking to type it based on what appears in the mod or something. So or even the display on the screen necessarily. So I'm saying, The usual reasons why that question would come up, I don't think apply here. So that's my thing. Dave, a quick question back to you though. If if is if what you're saying is true, this then I think the same comment would apply with regards to the earlier feedback we got in the manifest around using IRIs versus URI. Is that Is that the right way to think about it? I can't come out on the manifest 1. I wasn't in the room at the time that, if they discussioner in this meeting for that part. But I'm sitting in was proposed that we use IRIs instead of URI. To allow for you know, internationalization. K. So Process wise, here's the issue. In order to say, Ira, you have to specify a reference for it. The problem is there's no agreement on what the reference is for it. And there's there's at least 3 different possibilities. Right? There's the one that the IETF specified, like, which is, like, what, 39 87, something like that. I may have the number slightly. I think it's 397. And that's the one that nobody implements. There's the this that the IRI working group tried to create and that closed successfully because it couldn't get and then there's what the what working group does, which is not an RFC and that's what browsers actually do. K? K? So the question is what's an IRI? What would you actually reference then I don't think you can actually navigate that process, minefield, and I'm saying it's I don't think I actually need to. Okay. Right. Things up if actually need to have you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "the internationalization and things that get displayed to humans that humans type. K? I am not convinced that you actually need to for the purpose of the mud URI here, right, Hey. Just to say just to take another example, let's say and and this is not the case, but let's say that you that the mud URI could only contain ASCII characters and could never use percent escapes Would that break anything? It would make it inconvenient, but we're not doing that. We're saying you can still use percentage things. If you wanna have, you know, percent 20 to put a space in there, probably you can. Right? There's things you can do. But, trying to specify all the normalization stuff, if all you're going to do is pass it to a resolver is, I think, all we're doing here, then I think a lot of those issues become a lot easier unless so many comes up with something that I haven't thought of. So No. That that sounds completely correct. Dave, all of the URI that we have in suit are for machine consumption. They're not for display. So if if this is a display question, then it's irrelevant. Yeah. We're saying that you can that you can convert an IRI are you or I, right, with any of 3 different references that you're talking about, right, and we're just saying what you put in the mud URI is the thing after your converted whatever I or I that you were doing at the beginning with, whoever the user typed it in, if they typed k. You convert it to where you are, using your favorite mechanism that a browser does or app does or whatever. The resulting normalized URI is what you stick in the mud Hank is also in the queue. Yeah. Hi. This is Singh. My comment for plus one for II was if this does not add the bitterness that I, was fearing I would add. So this problem from, Cementic web. IRI is is huge. And if we don't have to bring it here, then okay. I was not entirely sure, but the, requirement was to, to bring it into this, value field here. But if it's just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "internationalization, as Dave just said, that's in there. For machines. So again, Britain, this is the only thing that we wanna avoid here. If, Dave's strong opinion is that it's and then we shouldn't do it So just to confirm, you're you're suggesting that we should continue to use your eyes and that a virus is Exactly. So, again, II have certain, use case scenarios and I don't think that this is really necessary here. I would again, I was not aware that the, that the working group effort in that nowhere actually, I thought there is a standardized, conversion between URI and II. I think we're referencing that somewhere. And but but but if that is not the case, then, then you're right is the way to go. Great. That's the end of the queue. Brendan, do you feel like you have what do you mean to move forward here. I feel like I have an answer on, whether it should contain, an IRI The question was still open, whether it should contain a URI, the suit report specifically specifically And what's your opinion? There was a request for it. I think. And, and, that's fine. I don't know if Michael Richardson is around because I I think he was the the the one who had mentioned this, and I Now, if if I guess I'm just asking if he would support that. There was a it was but it was a clarification question, you know, was this in there? And I'm The the It's not currently in the draft, and my question is, does it need to be? I guess I'm asking a question about a different draft, though, and that's problematic. Maybe I should take that back to the list. Let's do that. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "Alright. Please continue. Was that it? Just That was it for that one. Okay. Next we have, MTI. Next slide, please. So we've done some, updates since version 3, but they are pretty minimal again. So what we've done is, removed the HKDF references for ECD HES and changed them to, a s key wrap this was a a specific request out of tip, as evidently, the tape working group does not want to HKDF, they'd rather have, ASQ app. fine. That's So, the recommendation has was to change rather than one of them, just change all of them, which is what we've done, we fixed a few formatting issues. And, that is about all there was to it. For updates. Next slide, please. There are no outstanding issues on this one. There's nothing open in GitHub and far as I'm aware, any of the feedback on the have been incorporated. So I think this one's ready to move forward as well. Anyone have any remaining concerns on this draft. If not, we would like to ship this off to the ISG I'm not hearing any. Russ, you had committed before that you would be willing to write the shepherd right up for this. Is that still true?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "It. Sorry. No. Okay. I'll talk with, Karen and I will confer after the meeting and I will how we'll get this done. So it sounds like we're gonna be, sending this one on as well. Last up, we have update management. Alright. Next slide, please. Go ahead. I don't think we can hear you, Brandon. Think you're needed. Brendan, You are muted. Oh, Brandon, I think you're muted. Can you Maybe try rejoining. It it. Oh, yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:08",
    "text": "Alright. We have you back. Do you have my audio now? You too? Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Right. So as part of the, changes that we did, the We added a little bit more information on semantic versioning. There there had been some inaccuracies in how the semantic versioning including recommendations where, ink were were written so that was the the first sort of element of feedback. But at the same time, there was a request to add semantic versions for the update themselves, And this is essentially so that a component set can have a single semantic version to represent the whole component set. This is more relevant now that manifests are treated as components themselves. So that should hopefully clear up the, you know, questions about, for example, does it mean to have a semantic version for a component that happens to be a manifest. Now that is something that can be defined, so that should be at least helpful. In that context We've also added the text representation of the current version. Well, Next slide, please. Once again, This is has has moved forward, but this draft has had much less review than the others have. So I believe this draft does need some reviewers, the open issues that are there have been closed, but since it hasn't had as many eyes on it as the other draft, it would be really helpful if we could get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "a review a few reviews done of this draft. So that we know that we are, ready to move it forward. If if that's possible, Can we get any volunteers to, that haven't reviewed this draft, to give it a review. It's a very small draft. Shouldn't take much time. The carrier you're seeing anyone in the room? Not yet. Hank, is that, commitment to review the draft. Appreciate that. If you could, Yeah. He he he's nodding. Great. With with with tears, For what it's worth, I gave review of the draft, and it looks a pretty good. I'll confirm that on the list. Thank you. And so I think That that's all the slides I have on on on this one. I think that was the last one in my list. I'm not completely sure on that. I think that was it. Yeah. I think that, concluded some of the the presentations for today. See. So we'll, we'll confirm. We'll get those additional reviews. We can then contents on this draft and, and never for my hope is that, that we can do that in between meetings so that we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "ship it off to the ISG. I had a the next meeting. So I think that concludes the business on, working group drafts for the day. Is there any other business, you've generally had a full agenda and past meetings, we We clearly haven't gotten at this point. Alright. So not hearing any other business. I think we can Call this meeting done. So this concludes our our working group meeting for 119. Thanks, everyone. We'll see you next time Thank you. Thanks for the Thanks to the note takers as well. I care a little heavy here. We should probably say do you have some time Either later today or tomorrow? Mhmm. Yes. I'm okay. Go ahead and do that. I'm up. I guess I'll send you us an email. We can coordinate a meeting Alright. Thanks, everyone. Thank you. How"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:55",
    "text": "of of"
  }
]
