[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "yeah I don\u0027t so thank you to use my suicide [Music] [Music] [Music] we have this way of through the way you don\u0027t have to look up on that let\u0027s say we ask for that unless not this again it\u0027s already mr. hello 6lo working group so this is our IETF 102 six last session we have two hours and I\u0027m samhita Chakrabarti my co-chair Gabrielle Montenegro our lady suresh krisshnan who is not here today but teddy is representing Suresh we have many takers Ryan who thank you very much and we are looking for another mini taker okay Dania okay Dominic thank you very much so maybe I should have just put your name already and then Rahul Jadhav who has volunteered for Jabbar subscribe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "Thank You Rahul and with that we are going forward so note well if you are not familiar with it please read the description and if you have any disagreement please then leave the room otherwise this is our instruction directions for my ETF and today\u0027s agenda we have full agenda for two hours starting with the chair slides and then we\u0027ll go with Pascal\u0027s presentation on our FC 6775 updates and related ending updates and then there are several others presentation with merely mesh NFC update six low applicability and there are new drugs which are not working group document yet then we will address them ipv6 for PLC and then we have work coming out of the six low fragmentation recovery design team now we have two documents that are in this working group out of that investigation that we will discuss and at the end we will have a new proposal from Hudson Ayres and Phil levees from Stanford University and they have an interesting investigation on low-power nature of the devices and how that can affect the interoperability and they have a purpose solution so with that we will start with draft status so for the draft status RFC 6775 update has gone through long iesg review comments Pascal has been diligently updating those and commenting addressing the comments so it\u0027s at the last stage and waiting for Suresh to give okay and then six slow backbone router is prepared for working group last call six low AP and E which Pascal will present today it\u0027s in work-in-progress and if six low NFC so it has completed working group last call and it has got updates and I have given my updates my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "review comments as a shepherd of the document so he has an final updates which will be all ready for the history reviewtechusa six no ble mesh which is another working group document Karlis has been working on it and now with implementations it\u0027s in work in progress and then six low applicability and use cases document we will know that\u0027s also may be ready for working group last fall after this idea and then six low deadline time it has completed last call but no comments were received as I heard from Charlie if you have comments still have we have time next one we cut so please provide comments our otherwise L will do Shepards review and submit for iesg and then finally design team concluded for fragmentation and reassembly at the last IETF and we came out of three documents out of that one of them is on the implementation lightweight implementation from Carsten which is being discussed at the lwi chill alight implementation group and the two other documents that are part of six low which are minimal fragment which Thomas will present remotely and then we will have six low forwarding fragments so any comments okay any comments with the agenda today okay so I carry then I just had a question about the last paper and I assume there\u0027s been some discussion around whether it\u0027s more suitable here than it is in lightweight implementation guidance or will it be presented in both places I you know it\u0027s presented here and after that we can discuss yeah but there were discussions I\u0027m sure found the list but there were some discussions you know because that was that was one of the points that was raised yeah and it seems like maybe part of it belong to network but there might be some protocol elements so that\u0027s why we have it here as well okay so Pascal is next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:20",
    "text": "[Music] so a Samhita said this is the final stage for the work on the RFC 67 75 Hyundai okay so this is the usual unmet expectation it has recently evolved a little bit because the initial expectation that 6lowpan and he would enable to register for proxy services of our backbone with a backbone router has been extended to enabling whatever method for return rut ability including proxy but also writing protocols so nothing much here the family it\u0027s a family of three working documents one of them is dance which is must be complete the samhita said we get address protection which is an extension to it to make it secure and then the backbone water which is a proxy operation of our backbone if that is method that is used or we have SWAT ability okay so the generic flow is still in a very complex network the way it was used six the pan in the update to register to a six allow the six analysis and extended da message to the six lvr which may inject that in a rotten process or by proxy operation of our backbone phrases and now this is just an example because it made me that the six RR is a ripple router for instance so it might be that it\u0027s a restaurateur and the same exact operation works so last hf 101 we were in the middle of the discussion from Dave Farrell\u0027s review and there was this sentence that Dave wanted to change about Dave wanted basically that we write what network operator is administrators must do which is provision of resources no network for things to work and further reviews which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:22",
    "text": "were covered in 18 by Warren in there ended up changing that must again treat went up and then it will bounce we came back to something like before with they\u0027ve actually agreeing that we just state the fact we don\u0027t say to rock a Smurfs it\u0027s just a fact of life that you have to provision enough resources in your network so this is last IDF I presented that we turn the text with this abacus mast and now I present to you that the most goes away again Maria indicated to us that the readability could be better if we just moved the structure a little bit around so we also did that in draft 80 and quite right after the HTF it was published so we also added some clarification text about the fact that if the tea flag which is introduced in this back to say that the chatting is some value the chief flag is not said then the charity should be zero that\u0027s connected that\u0027s implicit by inheritance from AOC 6775 because it\u0027s a result field but we had the text to say then pajama came in from is review the big thing that happened is mostly that we define much more correctly with the rava field ears so so we ended up with this new definition that you can see here and in the final review document that we have now 21 this text is not actually at the same place because this was after Benjamin\u0027s ratio we placed all this text in the definition of what robberies and in fact if you look at it the first sentence is the definition of what it is and the rest is always operated so as part of Charlie\u0027s work and Charlie\u0027s with you we actually moved the second part somewhere else in the documents not lost you just move more in the brothel operation away from the rather definition yeah there was also discussion by bechamel with a nonzero statuses on euro and yes 6725 she\u0027s very clear on that so by Americans the non-zero status is in Europe unless you are FCC is different and finally the last review was a rich so actually Eric had a lot of background question about maybe having more introduction texts and things like that so we added some some clarification on why we do it things like that in the introduction and then again some of the text moved away and that was again part of Charlie\u0027s review then some of that text has fallen into the the appendix section so if we didn\u0027t get a real feedback from Eric about whether that text was what you wanted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:23",
    "text": "and if it\u0027s okay finally to have moved down into the appendix because discussion with Eric moved to the AP and D draft quite rapidly so he probably only is G review for which I don\u0027t have a clear excitation that we did the right thing so it would be very nice that we contacted rake if you guys are ladies could just check with the rake that he\u0027s happy with with the text at the as it is now apart from Eric I think we are were there for understand every time not to show because we moved to the AP and the discussion and never came back to to this and say okay I\u0027m fine it\u0027s the kind of comments we get from Eric on this document whose real why are you doing this so that\u0027s the sort of text which is now in appendix but after Eric\u0027s review in 89 put it in the intro after Charlie\u0027s review it went down into the appendix and then we move the discussion to AP and E and that\u0027s what the discussion is Jo but we thought about here acceptance of the changes that were made for him oh and then there is this this dumb reference thing for which I don\u0027t know what to do part of the IHG review told us that some references we had the terminology whose two should have been that Adrienne I think should have been normative reference because that\u0027s the terminology that we are using these are Domenici documents but the fact is those two terminology documents are informational so if we normatively reference informational documents then you ever done ref so how do you do how do the other do right I mean what happens in normal document when use them energy from an informational document is it an informational drive or is it is not much arrived so I made it a separate section right now so the trick is I have three reference I have normative terminology and info information or something like that yeah I know as a shepherd there is this role of checking if there are need to know much even informational and no the answer is no I ever thought one say they don\u0027t know what to do with it teri mandersohn not speaking for sure ish but the other in trad down roots are actually permissible in my ATF documents it just needs the responsible ad to say that it\u0027s okay to do so it\u0027ll be a discussion you\u0027ll have to have with sure ish so that that will then stop the breakup of you the additional sections in the back matter yeah so I\u0027ve talked with Ashish okay okay so let\u0027s just do that so the change is like a no-brainer right we just move "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:24",
    "text": "that extra section back including the normative and we all say so what happens since the last day as you review you saw those three versions were published to my best knowledge most of it is purely editorial even if the change are quite important and that has to do with Johnny working very hard on this document so as part of this changed my French was turned into English it\u0027s part of it the consistency of the document was improved like when you have a section talking about something then all the discussion about that something should be in that section not in the definition or anyplace else that\u0027s part of what Jerry said and that I did honest part of doing this it caused some progress which were introduced for a review to be actually split doesn\u0027t mean they went away it just means they were split they didn\u0027t find important texts that were the way because Charlie also eliminated some duplications as part of this work but I\u0027ve not seen that it discussed any change done for an ASU medium to be undone I just moved and sometimes we weld it in proper English okay now we had a number of discussions on the mailing list one of the prime came in really triggered by the discussion with Eric on AP and D and test to do with the fact that the rubber field which is how we protect the registration can be all the way up to 256 bits so it\u0027s no more constrained to the 64 bits of new i-64 field but this thing goes into a dark message meaning that now the direct message can be a variable size but the the dark does not have this rubber thing as an option it\u0027s it\u0027s an integral part of the every time you send down that part of the message is this thing so with the only inversion of the document we just said a look at the total size of the message and now that tells you what is the size of the of the rubber inside about that but then came the the need to extend the attack with options and we kept if if the size tells us what the rubber is then we cannot have an option which changes the size so we said hey we\u0027ll really need to signal the size of the rubber in the dark and so we won scratching our heads on the meaningless and stuff and we ended up indicating the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:24",
    "text": "size of the rubber field as part of the ICMP code that\u0027s the best place we found because sometimes the rubber itself can be a key and you can\u0027t you want to alignment and stuff so you can\u0027t steal bits from the key so you end up having to signal it somewhere else and there was not much space left so we decided that the cut effects would be splitting the code would put the neatest thing to do it\u0027s consistent with the way the dock was at the time we discussed it with Adrian Farrell because we had one bit here which was pretty much the debate saying oh it\u0027s so darn extended dock now instead of having one bit it\u0027s just those four bits which actually signal it because we now see you know oh it\u0027s so next and it da plus the size of the rubber so it\u0027s not inconsistent with the way to start initially we also we Charlie went down through the history of ICMP codes etc and we found that it was not so unfair to use it like that so that\u0027s not any place we could fit it in words yeah and the other big thing was more terminology saying that Samhita already did the big idiot at some point removing text about the backbone router which really was not needed for this particular spec was better fit in the Bible righto text Johnny came in with his review and he still thought we didn\u0027t go far enough on that and as he goes in the meantime two new pieces of works came up one of them is role now we can use this document in a 6lowpan node to register to a sick seller which is a ripple device and with thanks to this draft the repo device the ripple router can inject the registration into ripple so it\u0027s kind of free distributing six up an mg into repo so now the device by just doing the six dependency of registration can get routing back from a repo network so that\u0027s kind of that\u0027s different from a 6 DB R which is a proxy so it\u0027s a second type of thing with reverse route ability you can get from the registration there is a third one the other draft which is actually a working group document as we retrieved also references this work as the way to register to route and say there is a sequence number if you have a mobile device then it moves from report another port or it\u0027s Wireless or whatever it\u0027s quite important for the routing protocol to know what is the latest location of your device and that\u0027s that\u0027s one of this thing that sick slapping Andy does it when you register to something you increment sequence number which is injected in River all naturally but it\u0027s also injected in right now so that\u0027s how a rich fabric knows the latest location of a VM or something like that so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:25",
    "text": "because it was no more just the registration - backbone router we could not really keep mentioning bad blood writers who are the documents and that was really one of the big thing that Charlie was pushing hard to do so dr. Suresh actually that was we had an exchange there because I was kind of predicted to the change like that in the document at the point of time yeah well Charlie I ended up convincing it\u0027s mostly a change all six bbl goes away and there is this new term watching registrar so you register to a router of some form something which in the routing for you then you get the packets back the one thing which came at the same time is actually because of one of those two drafts I mentioned actually to offer both for rift and for repo is those protocols allow you to do multiple jarate so you can inject there can be multiple logical topologies on your writing fabric without a ripple it\u0027s called an instance or if it\u0027s wrapped so if if the node has a clue about which instance it would like to live in then it should be able to indicate that in the registration and theories of bite here so we decided to make it a no back and what it really is is a way for the 6lowpan node to signal for instance ripple but it want to live it wants to live in this particular instance and then there is the default which is the default instance the router is using zero and the I felt is just a way that we resolve to signal what your pack is about just in case but right now we don\u0027t we don\u0027t need anything it\u0027s left to 0 because the OPAC if it\u0027s set is is just the instance so summary is all I know it\u0027s completely ready I would like to predict to confirm is happy and we need to sort out this reference thing with Suresh and posit Carolyn so recently on the six-man list this recurring discussion about 64 is as flared up again and one of the dominant arguments 4/1 27s is that routers are subject to resource exhaustion attacks from classical ND and that you know using slash 127 as an attempt to sort of insulate backbone routers from from this possibility I\u0027m just wondering whether you guys have discussed or thought about backporting any of these features the classic you know nd so that\u0027s a very very very good and interesting question and yes oh yes you\u0027ve felt about it and I really hope it happens one day well specifically the registration I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:27",
    "text": "mean I may I spent about a year or two on that and gave up I mean and it\u0027s unfortunate but but it\u0027s sort of this notion the different communities different sub communities that people that only care about phones Wi-Fi in Internet and like oh there\u0027s six law that\u0027s a different universe so I should be even worry about that stuff go away right so and and I think that that\u0027s suboptimal but but it\u0027s a state of things so I mean they don\u0027t they have been drafts to get the various Jeff said I authored co-authored in the space to move it along and then there might still be opportunity could do stuff one of the things that people have pointed out and it keeps on showing out is that the implicit address detection is expensive because it takes a second if you follow this back right so this showed up in in some discussions in IP wave as well saying okay if you follow the spec we wait for a second to tell the car that we ship when I talk to it and start a secured exchange to tell us that we\u0027re getting the breaks right I know that doesn\u0027t work right so so there might be opportunities to go do something about that particular dad thing the other one the / 127 / 120 there are seas that say this is reasonable operational practices under these constraints right and yes six man keeps on spending time on the stuff but right but I he deployed now Eric\u0027s Radha - Radha links as far as I know in many cases they use longer than / 1 / 6 diversion but I must also say that since discussion actually we got Lorenzo in this room who asked us to do some changes which we made and I hope that makes the spec more acceptable now than it was at the time so we\u0027ll see I mean but let\u0027s conclude it here and and then see what we can do at six man with it did the other angle is that there is this I Triple E ie TF coordination thing which has been discussing physics of a Wi-Fi and broadcast and all those things for like four years and Dorothy at some point pointed out that even share point that they\u0027re pointed out that Wi-Fi specs mount eight the use of proxy neighbor discovery but there is no spec for it and so on the other hand now you should take this registration mechanism plus the backbone router per person and yes we are the spec that is mandatory to implement in Wi-Fi so putting things together at some point should make sense so not I mean sometimes it take 10 takes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "10 years right we are not there yet for the registration we\u0027re there for the fragmentation and you see now it\u0027s coming so we\u0027ll see Lorenzo is coming as well Lorenza clearly I think for a tour to 211 proxy Andy there is a spec it\u0027s in the attitude Elevens back it says what it\u0027s supposed to do so I think it\u0027s written down attitude 11 what the AP how VAP is supposed to proxy these messages I\u0027ve not found a detail operation for the about discovery proxy how do you associate to it at layer 3 how do you maintain disassociation what do you do on every end the exchange I don\u0027t think it\u0027s there now if you show me the pointer I\u0027m interested I mean it\u0027s only your three specifications I\u0027m not doing that your assertion is that they say you must do this without telling you how I don\u0027t think they published that we can look but it\u0027s what the research from Dorothy my recollection is perhaps that it\u0027s not as well specified as you\u0027d like and it\u0027s certainly not an IETF standard right right but I think I think it is better than some way I think I read it and we could go find it yes anyway one of the goals like my writer is to do that at least in the case of an IOT three describes are you associate this is this this is really of three Association process and then the backbone router is what you do in this proxy operation so for this particular request we have heard this question at least few times in different contexts and I think it in conclusion I think it would be good to discuss it again with our Eddings C and the six-man chairs to see if there is any even if we can revive any work from the past that that was kind of now put in in the back burner yes exactly and copy on that side we are we are done with this let\u0027s publish it and if it needs to be amended to work on various other environments let\u0027s create this other amendment or of C where it belongs even if it\u0027s very fear so eye candy we had interesting talks with I engage moieties in the room I think but please correct me if I\u0027m wrong but what I got is I understand the trick is happening with the fact that we can carry robber of 128 or 256 and he understands and he agrees that we can protect what we want to protect with that it was a lot more discussion if we wanted to protect it with 64 bits and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:28",
    "text": "well we don\u0027t until that because when whoever wants to use a key of 64 bit it is prime but we were really enabled that caused us a lot of effort robbers of larger size to put to provide the real protection so that\u0027s done that in this bag there were there was a left-to-right right-to-left issue which we solved actually Mike found out that usually we when when you truncate a token and you truncate left to right but not in 6775 with truncated right to left or something so did and in a PNG we did the other way around so it was kind of bizarre so we align the two specs and we do the normal life to write operation so for instance if you have this case where your your 6lb are is not graded to your date so it only blows 64 bits ey 64 you have to truncate the rover yeah that still allows you to check that it looks like the same Rover at least for those 64 bits but if you want to validate it as a key you need on the 6 that is the middle thing but just to post it on the 6 lbr and maintain that not the classical operation of the 6 MB or you have to truncate around so we fixed it so the truncation is the same as usual and that that was done for last time we actually aligned our options to sailed we are different and that was consuming more option space so we said hey why don\u0027t we overload the said options and use the same numbering space just extend the name for instance [Music] 1c j option when one of the same options was called eros a right we are doing analytic elliptic curve so we could not have an option called where I say but I mean just change the name use the same code just say it\u0027s overloaded and that\u0027s what we did so if there\u0027s a primary that just let us know but the alternate is to consume more spacing in there and yes there\u0027s still this discussion about about how we encode the key and whatever the question by a rake in this discussion is that if you\u0027re using a leaky you see keys you don\u0027t even need to use any of those complex there or about gwk banker dings yeah well that\u0027s beyond me right so I hope that connect "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:28",
    "text": "helps us when the joints or something or many more it sorts it out but the encoding of the key is way beyond me I understand that there\u0027s complex I\u0027ve looked at it say oh I hope we don\u0027t need to do that but I mean I don\u0027t understand wait we don\u0027t we don\u0027t just throw the key in there like the bits and it seems that they may be saying this influencer that\u0027s it then you go find the flows there well discretion on the JavaScript from Abdul Abdul Salam Maryam is this update implemented Yossi 67 7 update or the AAP apne I don\u0027t know the rest yes so far scold what\u0027s the status of 600 AP and D is it now ready to move forward not just now but we are meeting with Ronnie who was kind enough to come here so right after this meeting we spend an hour with money yeah I think Mohit I think we need one iteration more before so not yet right now we should focus on backbone router it\u0027s a big thing and I know Johnny at least as some work he wants to do on there as well yeah so let\u0027s do backbone router let give us time for the security aspect of Achim we have close I mean we have the right options now which was not the case earlier we we have a good feeling of what it does but edition wise it\u0027s not dependent you only wanted one years ago and we discussed that last time open they did not spend time with us since last 80s so it\u0027s gonna be now yes so there is there was this earth built that we added in 6lowpan Andy right our c7 centric update to indicate I want swatting when we had twinkle that in the backbone router to say oh now I\u0027m doing watching if there was the abbot\u0027s in millimeter they want to do it that\u0027s pretty much the only change then we get some clarification text and I expect that if charlie is start spending the same kind of time he spent on the other draft and that would be a big addition on just making it clear and concise ER and what about English so there will be a best like that but it will change the content rates the function in this function and function wise its complete so so I think we can go let\u0027s call and integrate Charlie coming on sir started their work with us for sure it was not limited by the way as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "well okay Michelle we asked how many people have at this point how many people in the room have read the draft on the backbone router okay four or five hands we would like to have at least one or two reviews maybe we will actually request a volunteer for further review [Music] okay Charlie okay all right I also do some reviews so really mesh Harleys okay hello everyone my name is Carlos Gomez I\u0027m going to present the current status and last update of the draft entitled ipv6 mesh over Bluetooth Low Energy using IPSP okay so first of all let\u0027s take a look at the status of the document so the last date is - 0 3 which was published a couple of weeks ago so as you may have noticed that document had not been updated for a while that\u0027s because the previous version 0 2 had been considered stable by the authors then we thought it would be a good idea to validate the draft my means are having some running code before actually requesting working group last call so since then progress on this side the the implementation has been slow for several reasons including what I\u0027ll present next so our idea was to start from some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:34",
    "text": "running or obscene 7660 scenario that\u0027s ipv6 over state apology due to the energy so we started with the first approach by using raspberry PI\u0027s running blusette which is the Linux really stack as a basis and while we were able to successfully run a simple scenario with one six lbr and one signaling which correspond to Bluetooth Low Energy master and slave respectively it was not possible to have more complex scenario running with one signal here and several 6 islands and that appears to be because of some known issue of Blues ahead by which a really master doesn\u0027t really handle well several simultaneous due to global regime connections and unfortunately there\u0027s not a solution to that issue as of today however fortunately we found another approach which is using bleach as the basis for our scenario so bleach is an RFC 2616 open source implementation for Kentucky and we have been able to locally reproduce a UPC one scenario comprising a signal beer and several six lines communicating simultaneously so this is a picture of the devices we are using this is CC 2650 devices running Kentucky or West and from here now we have actually already started to implement the draft yeah so this is now something which is in progress so now let\u0027s take a look at the the updates in zero three so first of all we have a new author micro sport from the brass University of Technology in Austria who is also the main author of bleach and we also have a new contributor who\u0027s also from the same University and also related with the bleach effort so we have some technical update in zero three which arises from the fact that in the previous version in zero two we assume a network with already established yearly link layer connections however in zero three now we detail which is the relationship between 6lowpan rooms and IPS Piero\u0027s for connection establishment by the way you recall that the IPS P is the Bluetooth profile that defines functionality for link layer connections and discovery of devices that support ipv6 over Bluetooth Low Energy so as a result we have added text in the section that deals with labor discovery that\u0027s 3 3 2 and we have also added an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:36",
    "text": "appendix with an example so more specifically in the neighbor discovery section we have added item 3b that\u0027s because section 6 2 of RFC 6775 states that for dynamic configured scenarios a 6lr comes up first as a non router then it waits until it receives an array to configure it so interface address and then finally terms to a router so in order to support the same operation the idea is that in our draft 6lr starts by using the IPSP node row only then this means that the device will advertise its presence by sending merely advertisements then some previously existing IP router will be able to detect these advertisements and will initiate the establishment of buley connection really link layer connection with the sips alarm then at some moment it will be possible for the router to send a router advertisement which will be received by the seller which will then configure its interface address turn into router and then we\u0027ll start running also as an IP SP router so for all these to work the idea is that the 6l gr needs to be running from the beginning as an IP SP router so here we have some slides that illustrate well the example we have in an appendix which try to illustrate an instance of this behavior so initially let\u0027s assume we have all these devices with this 6lowpan intended roles and let\u0027s assume that at the beginning they are not initialized except for the six LDR which starts from the beginning let\u0027s say running as an IP SP router then next place at some moment let\u0027s assume that see 6lr starts running initially in the ipsp note it will start sending really the birthday smells that will be received at some woman by the seeds of GR which will initiate connection establishment so over the created Bluetooth low-energy connections it will be possible now to transmit ipv6 packets and at some moment the six OVR will send a router advertisement and then it means the 6lr will be able to compute its own interface address and will be able to turn into a router so at that moment the 6lr can start running as an IP SP router and on the other hand whether it continues or not running the as an IEP SP note in parallel is an implementation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "choice okay so this is allowed by the IPS PA specification and at our six low level this would be something to choose from so at that moment we\u0027d assume the rest of the devices the six lines some woman will start also running in this case only as I PSP notes and now it means that the 6lr but some woman will detect the presence of the city lines and will be able to initiate the establishment of linear connections similarly to the process we have seen before for the signal be ours and the 6lr so after all this is the result of this whole process by which at the end we have links with link layer connections established between neighboring devices and it will be possible to transmit ipv6 packets over these established link layer connections well finally one last slide about some related work basically person look at last you left me a little bit confused on is it a layer 2 more layers three much that you\u0027re building this you\u0027re not showing how the rotting occurs the ideal would be to have routing layer three IP routing okay so so what would be the rotting pole are using it\u0027s not specified so we leave this open in the in the draft okay so one slide about related work basically because there have been some questions on this in previous meetings about which is the relationship between this work we are doing here and also the Bluetooth low-energy network happening at the Bluetooth si G so last year there was a set of specifications I mean one being called Brutus mesh published which enable Billy mesh networking which allow well this is actually a complete protocol stack which uses control floating over advertising channels as the technique to enable end to end communication in a multi hop scenario one related note here is that our season is six sixty eight which is also the basis for our drugs assumes linear connections of a dated channels over for ipv6 over really so it means well dated channels are a different story with different formats and currently the IDF we don\u0027t have a way to carry actively six packets over advertising channels so anyway it appears that the current "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:39",
    "text": "scenario is that we have at least two options to create Bluetooth Low Energy mesh networks the one defined by the Bluetooth si G and the one we are enabling here so that\u0027s all from my side I don\u0027t know if there may be other questions any questions so this is a working group document at this point so we are going to move forward with that do you think that we need to revise it more at this point maybe one more maybe we will find some reviewers from some knowledge in the Bluetooth area and ipv6 area yeah so you\u0027re getting more feedback would be great and also in parallel let\u0027s see if we can so progress from the implementation side to also have some additional feedback from there you\u0027re starting to get some experience from the dictation sounds like you might need a little bit more but it may not be too early to start seeking feedback from other folks so yeah thank you maybe oh thank you or my name is Dylan home I\u0027m looking for ETL I so this is the sixth row croak eulogy and use cases Oh history history and status yeah so three years ago or this document was adopted and the working group document so this is dr. Libby John so I would like to emphasize the goal of this document this document is not a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:39",
    "text": "technical document it is information document so the purpose of this document is to help other person to understand the six road canal gist and how to deploy this technology into the real world so it\u0027s the region so to do this or the many person are attending to developing this draft domain also of the six role of a pure document and other person from for example jupyter mesh and why son and since repairs he and adversity experts I hope to develop this document so what is the update part after last meeting so there is nothing to add a new newly we are only trade two parts one part is the LT MPC so you know in the bidding time the health is the MD she was included in our web but in South Korea it\u0027s specially to ask a telecom we deploy our TPMS in Korea and we found the dead sea froth technology is not needed to deploy LT MTG because every MPC is served on support ipv6 transmission so LT MTC is not related to six-row technology that region with the LT empties part and the reference do we founded that MV IOT case it is baby some kind of dodgy flow technology but MB IOT is heard in the LP double am working room so I do not hinder the Mbit in this document and we also trade six ropers references the reason is to eat what expired so I hoped on you I founded the new six Rob pearcy document was raised and I know that the Bingley you will pretend so I hope autistics repair document was adopted as a working group document because though in the real world for example disrepair see and they twisted I based on the Piercy technology so I hope the Pierce document was adopted as a working document so in my side the remaining work is part one is to update the tricity of the currently the trustee is the it is the home plug power of Alliance support and internally it is transferring to my son Alliance but there is no official of announcement so this region I keep on ethnicity is the home from low power line compliance so after official announcement we will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:42",
    "text": "update then so in our site or we believe that there is nothing to add Yuri so I would like to ask the king guru Pathik or adult person next phase that\u0027s all thank you okay no if no other comments thank you very much on my name is Jana and joy from a tree this is the ipv6 over NFC actually to top budget the bottom number ten this is the first slide escape instruction of their have cystic knowledge here [Music] make it deep the century yes thank you this is the history yes status to the working group at option F March 2015 we have five times revision and four times revision for working last call and make sure at the moment at the moment this document is working narco since March 2018 and there\u0027s no more filter from the FC forum since the January 2017 and we have a new Shepherd Santa Santa give me the review of this document for number number nine and I just produced the number ten will be published as possible because I just get the review after the total submission is inspired today so first comment from the Shepherd is the about the and he\u0027ll the NFC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:43",
    "text": "actually the last paragraph is not clear she said so I just put the red box with the figure deity the example of the two until extension of NFC so got the okay from the her from her and the regarding these vamp you of NFC just like just the there\u0027s two paragraph two sections think moto and if it are the firstly Ling Komodo actually just FC empty can be valuable can extend it though this empty you cover the whole ipv6 packet so you can use the FA are or not just if the if we used the extension of M tu ans the NTU so just did she give the comment about the second camera though so I just put he heard the comment that this document doesn\u0027t does not does not recommend using if they are over and it was link due to the simple stilted hopeful and implementation and also the section eight thought for the a if we are just the first three sentences are simplified just just the one sentence of like this is the first percent identified from these three sentences the ipv6 RFC fragmentation and reassembly so the apparel is not recommended in this document there\u0027s discussed intersection of two that for the rest of my ready the same and the last one is she gives a comment about the the secret concentration actually just put the last two paragraphs she gave the comment just this that distance Tocqueville should caution about the three before the main in the middle attack and when the NFC device connecting offered in the Internet so just put some text in the end at the end of the section seven and she gave me the device text I just ripped to put the whole the text from her thank you so any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:46",
    "text": "comments so Gabriel and I discussed about the changes in this document so originally there were many shells in this document all over the document so I requested a younghoon to change them appropriately to shoot masked recommended not recommended so he has made those changes what we discussed Gabriel and I that it would be appropriate that it should go for one week short last call in the working group so please we will will do that probably immediately today or tomorrow and there\u0027s providers comments next is fragmentation and the next is PLC well no yeah thank you so currently we arrive at the force version of this draft and in this version we have formally included the attribute 9019 1.1 into the scope which is a recently published a tree buoy PLC standards I will give more details about this PLC and the address auto-configuration configuration and mapping mechanisms have been included instruct and the related features in the RFC 6775 update has been introduced to this draft for deeper discovery of PLC devices and Charlie Perkins and and I have become the Colossus of this draft next page place and for the actual body in 1901 dot one it is a newly published a triple a PLC standard by the smart great parent communication working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:48",
    "text": "and it works in the medium frequency it has following characteristics is supposed post TDMA and CSMA in the frame into it utilize the OFDM multi modulation to do ways the inference on the paradise and it also supports the fragmentation and their assembly data retransmission and multiple ways of encryption and four levels of priority of different cues and the data rates of atropine and vo 1.1 can be up to 2 megabits per second next page please and the for the state address auto-configuration the interface ID can be derived from the democracy which which which can be the UI 64 ID or the 48-bit MAC address and which can be extended to 64-bit by inserting the fffe in the middle and the UN help it should be set 1 to indicate that it is a unique address and the GI beat should be set to 0 and another option 2 for state is authorized little configuration is to derive the interface ID from the shorter dresses questions yes Carolyn um I just want to give you a heads up is this only used for link local traffic or is it also used for routable traffic if it is derived for yeah it can be used multiple inca graph at most budding traffic so yeah so one thing you might run into as this gets further down the pike is pushback from iesg on the privacy aspects of this so one thing you can look at is the way that i finessed this in 6 low back this is fine I think for link local traffic yeah but if you start you know you I think you\u0027re gonna get resistance for using this scheme for routable traffic because there\u0027s you know just a lot of concern about exposing hardware addresses in ipv6 okay thank you and another option is to devise the the interface ID from from shorter crises and here are the 4 meters that were defined in this draft the difference between the difference comes from a different combination of shorter races for different PRC standards and the will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:51",
    "text": "and help it and the job it should be set to zero and it should be a clear iodide the UNL and Jia beat should not must not used to generate an idea also parity to avoid any beauty next page please and for unicast mapping link a link layer address option are defined which can be used for the nipper discovery entry soft link layer dress and to surprise the broadcast in Liberty scurry messages next page please and we have also included the RFC 6775 the new features to to this PRC devices and and the updated plc devices should include the e in the neighbor solicitation so here I mean me personally station instead of an altar solicitation and and that the arbiter should besides to 1 if the PLC device can be act it is done if the device is not a it is not a rotor and the arbiter should be sacked 1 if the device is in charge of from cell 0 if the device is in charge of its own which ability and the updated PLC device should use should used year all to attract the status registration from the neighbor advertisement message and the daily can be proxied to routing register which may operate in optimistic the and the Falls to achieve the back of our community to our FC 6775 only POC devices the door of 64 bits must be used and next pitch place so next step I wishing that today\u0027s draft day is ready and we will call for working group adoption and before this are your comments most welcome thank you so how many people have read the draft this draft sorry - I think we need more people to 3 we need more people to read the draft to ask for working group adoption okay yes please read the draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:56",
    "text": "and send comments to the mailing list and and after that well requester working group adoption secure send anybody out of the blue sheets nobody has signed the blue sheets where are they Thomas what me is going to present remotely we are going to have two presentations on fragmentation reassembly basically handling the fragments see see Thomas Thomas take it away I am just going to change the size of the presentation to the presentation mode Thomas can you hear us Thomas are you in mute we can\u0027t hear you we don\u0027t need to do anything on conditioning you may want to play with the little button the blue button with the speaker button can you ask the person patience so you go up so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:59",
    "text": "Tomas is trying to enjoy so once upon a time there was a draft about fragment forwarding and recovering just in there for a long long time and then the bones finally made it to the surface and the work the work had decided to work on fragments some time ago and from the design team so this initial fragment forwarding draft really had to part how do you forward fragments and how do you recover fragments well the first piece you don\u0027t really need to change the format from from the legacy six were bad but the recovery you do so part of what the design team decided to do was to split the work into two pieces one which does folding of fragments in one which does recovery the letter being this job since we did that split were removed from the original fragments forwarding draft everything about fragment rewarding which caused me to changed name because kind of made no sense so the good old the boudoir fragment for wadding draft began became the fragment recovery part of the fragment recovery is to expose a bitmap which is pretty similar to what we do in LP one of which fragments were received and which one were not we also enable windowing systems so that you can limit the number of fragments which are in the air and avoid congestion the network use initial bid to actually see now that looks like we also signal the end of the flow so that you can clean up resources inside the network so just published one version and the change from 1 0 has to do with the discussion we had at the last day ETF because Karsten insisted that with the forwarding technique we could actually keep some bytes from the previous fragment and use them in the next fragments etc etc on each fragment can actually don\u0027t have to to have one fragment in one fragment out the reason why it would happen that way years 6lowpan compression may not happen the same way when the packet goes here and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:59",
    "text": "comes in and when the packet goes out reason is for instance that if you shall one hop away from the source the source may choose the MAC address they are till to compress the IP address of the earth right but once you for the fragmented compression doesn\u0027t work anymore you have to put the four IP addresses source so you end up with a packet which is smaller on the first hop than later if you fill up this packet without any slack in your room then the next heart has to truncate the fragment keep some of it for next time and forward what it has with now the full ipv6 address and compressions it\u0027s not bad so that\u0027s a very sad thing if you ask me anyway the fragment recovery cannot work like that because you signal individual fragments that you have not received so you want the the bit which means fragment five to mean the same thing at the source and the destination you can\u0027t redo when you fragment on the fly in the middle so with this draft compared to the generic virtual buffer that Caston and tomorrow writing on it yes the market I had to to insist that if you have this kind of network where the six top end compression is that the same all along and you need to have slack then you put the slack on the first fragment so as you follow the first fragment which which was where the 6lowpan compression happens anyway if the size of the 6lowpan compressed thing changes you don\u0027t change the content the data piece of the fragment so all the next fragments are forwarded in their integrity they are not you know you don\u0027t we split the fragments so that\u0027s that\u0027s just a new text that discussion now my thinking is that this should be true regardless I mean having to change what the death the fragrance are in flight in that send the exact same data gram in and out but that\u0027s additional complexity I don\u0027t see the value I think the slack should always be in the first fragment but that just me represented back on that I\u0027m interested Rahul shadow from Harvey techno so we are implementing this in production code actually the fragment forwarding technique and we are using the slack we have to keep slack for the first not only for the addresses but for the fields as well for example TTL which has to be changed on power bases so that also has to be changing so you put this like in the future I think we should not date it so I should be should be online now I don\u0027t know Hugh so you want to go there or you want to move forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:06",
    "text": "all right so apologies for the microphone thing my flight got canceled who cannot be there so I have two very good parts in this presentation one side of the design team wants three sides of the rounded on the draft design team next slide has been scoped with what I\u0027ve just said we have presented problems a miracle last ITF we now have three drafts I think this will answer Kerry\u0027s comment we have won an elegant well in in six low the one and L week that discusses the implementation technique of fragment forwarding the first one and six low draft number two here details the context and what a fragment forwarding is and you know what what is currently defined what needs to be defined if anything and then the third one does fragment recovery which is what Pascal just presented so I last IETF I think we said we wanted to close the design team as soon as those drafts were adopted the L week document has been adopted the two other ones who have not been adopted so I believe that the team is still open and I know the goal here is to to ask the chairs whether they want to adopt these drafts and we chose a design team or whether they we don\u0027t know what the two to adopt these drafts and we still frozen to thank you so the next slide this next part is on the minimal fragment fording which is next piece which is giving some context about what is being what is being what is being defined now I don\u0027t know something that maybe you can move move forward to slides yep thank you so we posted a in version Pascal myself a couple of days ago where we we highlight the limits of per hop reassembly fragmentation and reassembly and then we discuss the ERP implementation and its limits and the VMP vrb implementation is being discussed in the Elric draft love that person has next slide please so here again reiterating what the three pieces are the L wick draft details and implementation technique called VRB this drive this car a Hubert anus Expo provides more review of what\u0027s happening and and the Highlands limits and then Pascal\u0027s Draft adds a defines a new protocol to do end-to-end acting and recover fragments next slide please that\u0027s my last slide so the author\u0027s has a 600 chairs to call forward reproduction off of this draft that\u0027s I hope this answers your question Kerry and I\u0027m happy to great so I I think we the chairs agree with with that position "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:06",
    "text": "so anybody object to asking for adoption here seems like we\u0027re ready for that of course we\u0027re gonna do it on the mailing list but I\u0027d like to get some sense here there\u0027s anybody who who agrees to adopt these two drafts as working with drafts let\u0027s just raise hands I you raise your hand if you support adopting these as working group drafts okay you don\u0027t know you don\u0027t care yeah I saw about 15 inch which is a good amount of good percentage of the people are just for the record there is one voice from the job as well okay so yeah I think we\u0027re gonna go ahead and of course was a question on the mailing list but that\u0027s what we\u0027re gonna do and once we formally adopt them then we can prepare the design team closed with our our thanks for the reproductions thank you sir e record that there is no objection in the room to me okay thank you thank you thank you so much okay so next is a new draft by Hudson and Phil design consideration for low-power Internet hi everyone my name is Hudson ears I\u0027m a PhD student at Stanford and I\u0027m gonna be presenting some research I\u0027ve been doing into design considerations pull up our internet protocols and I\u0027ve been doing this alongside a few other students at Stanford as well as a meet levee and fell Levis so some of the motivation for this research is we\u0027re surrounded and the idea that interoperability is crucial for IOT devices and for low-power embedded protocols and while working on the on a six-legged implementation for the talk embedded operating system we started looking into the 6lowpan implementations of several other open-source operating systems and we found a lot variation and ultimately "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:06",
    "text": "that inspired us to do a interoperability study into five open source implementations specifically contiki arm embed riot tiny OS and open thread and one thing that we found was that for all of these pairings of implement of implementations none could completely interoperate for all of the cases that are defined in the 6lowpan RFC\u0027s for 49:44 6282 and 6775 and i\u0027m gonna elaborate on this a little bit more later but we think that one of the primary reasons for this is actually due to some of the constraints on code size and RAM as well and so the internet draft that I presented it is associated with this talk talks about some principle designs and guidelines that can anticipate problems in this space and we hope that this informational internet draft can sort of provide advice here and maybe in some of these problems for other protocols and sort of enlighten with some of the interoperability issues in 6lowpan so this is an outline I already sort of previewed everything here but I\u0027m gonna elaborate some more on the motivation and the specific findings that we had I\u0027m gonna go into my four design guidelines and I\u0027m gonna illustrate them through example application to 6lowpan and then conclude with some discussion see what you guys think and some of the takeaways that we had from our original results so these are some of the results of the 6lowpan interoperability so anything we did in this column on the left we have a list of sort of what we call the features of 6lowpan specified in 49 44 and 60 - 80 - primarily so these are a bunch of things that these different just returned from use they\u0027re a drop from uploaded for this one situation yeah if you go to the agenda I believe it\u0027s okay thank you yeah of course but yeah so this is a list of the features that given implementation must support in order to be you know considered a full 6lowpan implementation so stuff like you know stateless address compression and UDP port compression in a you know you know support for the mesh and broadcast headers etc and when we looked at all of these implementations one thing that we found was that none of them actually you know seems to implement every single feature at least correctly as described in the specifications and also that for these five stacks the missing feature support was actually mismatched so well you know some stacks would support one thing others might not and that sort of to us seem to indicate somewhat of a problem and so we investigated a little further and we flashed some of these operating systems and some there example six locally and applications on different embedded boards and tried to send packets back and forth and for many of the sort of common more simple use cases "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:06",
    "text": "we found that it worked fine but we would find that for certain packets that might be compressed in a certain way we would suddenly have silent network layer drops so for instance from an embed OS device communicating with a contiki device if given 6lowpan packet contained an ipv6 extension header embed would compress the extension header according to the guidelines and RFC 6282 and Contiki would not be able to parse that and would respond with link layer acknowledgments but then would not respond because it would with any application data because it would these packets would then be silent about the network layer we found that we were able to actually produce sort of a lot of examples of this with you know the five stacks that we looked at and some of the different features described earlier 6lowpan table and we thought there might be a few possible reasons why this is the case you know of course these are open source stacks and you know 6lowpan has changed a lot in the ten years since 2008 so perhaps we thought maybe those could be the reasons and you know you know there\u0027s not necessarily an established reference implementation like you know for instance the Linux TCP stack that many people might look to when implementing their own TCP stack but ultimately we don\u0027t really think these are actually the primary reasons I mean if they might have contributed and instead we think that a big part of it is due to concerns by the designers are the implementers excuse me with regards to code size in particular and sort of elaborate on why we arrived at that conclusion looking at the documentation and comments and just the design of these stacks it\u0027s pretty evident that the designers were of course concerned with code size so if you look at some of the wiki\u0027s for these various operating systems you\u0027ll see guidelines on how to reduce the firmware of you know these applications and the kernel for certain cases and we found that frequently the advice was to use these different methods to reduce the size of the IP stack and often specifically the 6lowpan stack so scattered throughout the source code of the networking stack in these kernels of these OS is we would find if deaths in a lot of places such as this if def module G NRC 6lowpan IP HC and you know IP HC n HC and so there\u0027d be an option for whoever was flashing this operating system onto a given embedded device to disable you know the NHC feature the next header compression feature or portions of the next header compression feature when flashing a device in order to reduce the firmware size and just use the subset of 6lowpan functionality if you can actually scroll down just a little bit and for a ram as well we found friends contiki that it assumes that the maximum possible growth upon decompression in the first fragment is 38 bytes and that was conserved Ram and to avoid using more than 38 bytes of RAM for the first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:06",
    "text": "fragment buffer and you know that 38 byte limit is one that can easily be exceeded when sending certain packets given the amount that IP headers and UDP headers and extension headers can be compress and so to elaborate some more on this problem and why it might happen in particular for these embedded operating systems if you look at a number of the 6lowpan platforms with you know 15.4 radios that are supported by contiki OS and riot OS I might just sort of grabbed a sampling of the boards you have platforms that are small as the T mode sky which while it might be considered more of a legacy mode is still used for research applications some small platforms like this lady a z1 both of these which have you know less than 100 kilobytes of code size available and then you of course also have much larger these cortex-m devices and then even you know consumer devices like the nest protect which are much more resourceful and we you know what we found is that these embedded operating systems they really want to be able to broadly support large numbers of devices and so they want to be able to have kernels that are very small and networking implementations that are very small so that while they might work well on the larger devices they also can be supported by the smaller devices and it\u0027s rather rare for these embedded operating systems to have significantly different implementations based off of the size of the device that\u0027s being flashed and we found also that for the IOT applications that many people use these embedded operating systems for the limitations varied a lot for some implementations you know power might be the biggest concern but for other implementations with relatively complex applications sometimes it was the case that code size and memory availability was also very important and could influence decisions regarding which embedded operating system might be used so to get some more concrete numbers for this we tried to do a 6lowpan code size study for these five stacks we did this using two methods for contiki and riot we did our best to take advantage of the options to disable portions of the 6lowpan stack to isolate how much code size was attributable to those portions were specifically so for instance in contiki if you enable the options to remove IP HC compression that would reduce the code size by about six kilobytes in riot you know relatively similar numbers and then for open thread arm embed in tiny OS we looked at the binary e.l.f files and figured out how much code size was attributable to each of the functions they\u0027re associated with 6lowpan and with the full I P stack um and obviously these numbers for the IP stack conversing slope an are not necessarily huge relative to the amount of program memory available on a lot of these devices but I think it would be foolish to consider that they\u0027re not significant especially for some of the smaller devices and especially for cases where applications might have a significant amount of code and that sort of leads us to a discussion maybe an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:06",
    "text": "aside of the interaction between code size and compression there\u0027s a lot of things you can do to reduce the amount of radio energy used by a given embedded device you know beyond just compression there\u0027s also advanced Mac and physical layers which can reduce the amount of radio energy expended by a given device but the trade-off is that these often a require more compute power and B they\u0027re often relatively complex and can require additional code space or RAM and for cases where you have an application which might already be pushing up against the boundary of what\u0027s capable on a given device it can force a requirement for more expensive or more power-hungry microcontrollers I\u0027m actually gonna the you know there\u0027s some other considerations as well just in general increased complexity can be harmful to expectations of interoperability and it\u0027s it\u0027s difficult for instance to apply something like pastels law to this low resource environment and that sort of brings me to my for design guidelines and in the slides that follow I\u0027m gonna present each guideline and then I\u0027m gonna follow it up with an example application to 6lowpan and well I\u0027m committed to the guidelines and I will defend the guidelines themselves I\u0027m not super committed to the specific exempts to the specific examples and I\u0027d like to avoid any discussion that follows getting too tangled and necessarily it\u0027s the specific details of the example apps because I believe that while those example apps themselves may not be perfect they\u0027re useful for illustrating what the design guidelines mean and still worth discussing so for guideline one this is actually slightly different than the order that I present the guidelines in the internet traffic for anyone who\u0027s read it but I think that\u0027s sort of logical here I think it\u0027s important that these devices have the ability to advertise their capabilities so that these silent network layer drops which cannot be interpreted is anything in particular by a given sender cannot occur right now it seems sort of uncomfortable that for 6lowpan it\u0027s relatively easy for these five different stacks you know to send packets which will be silently dropped with no information back to the receiver and so long as there\u0027s an explicit mechanism defined in the protocol by which this can be avoided I think that that\u0027s important and useful for 6lowpan I proposed two potential mechanisms for this which could either either one can be used on its own or could be used in tandem I think one of the more important ones would be just including an ICMP v6 message type to indicate if a given device receives receives a message which you know cannot parse at the network layer and so it can respond to the sender and indicate that perhaps it\u0027s capability was not sufficiently high to parse that message and then the second option would be a 6lowpan neighbor discovery option which would allow for a device to communicate some amount of its capability during the time when devices are learning about each other in the network and this option minimizes this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:07",
    "text": "additional energy cost of you know responding with failures you know as would be required for icmpv6 and of course given that these devices need to be able to advertise the capabilities the next logical question would be what exact information should they be advertising during this process and so what we proposed is that in general these protocols should define a capability spectrum given that there often are relatively broad range of capability devices that might want to use a protocol and that some of these devices may be very concerned with saving power and others might be more concerned with code size or RAM use it\u0027s important that there be a capability for a given protocol that defines how the features of this protocol can be you know removed as code size needs to be conserved this is actually somewhat similar to an idea presented in Jonathan we\u0027s 6lowpan in Iraq draft in 2008 that discuss testing interoperability of independent implementations and so for 6lowpan here this actually includes all the features from that slide that I showed earlier and how they can be split up into for instance six classes so for instance a class zero device and this scheme would only support sending and receiving uncompressed ipv6 which can be fragmented according to RFC 4944 and then a class five device would support the you know entire specifications for everything defined in 4944 sixty to eighty to 67 75 and then something like a class two device would support sending and receiving stateless ipv6 address compression messages but wouldn\u0027t for instance support fields that were sent with ipv6 option compression and so you know the reason that we chose these specific classes is the idea that as you move up from class 0 to class 5 you know class 1 and class 2 or the classes where you get the most energy savings for the least added code size and then for the higher classes you have you know smaller increments of energy savings are relatively more complex additions to code then for a guideline 3 just the idea that these protocols should provide reasonable bounds this is based you know largely in our observations for 6lowpan that many of the stacks were taking certain shortcuts or defining certain constants that were not defined in any of the RFC s to serve Ram in certain places so for 6lowpan we for instance suggest that perhaps a header decompression should be limited to 50 bytes so that for instances where more than 50 bytes of you would occur those messages should actually not be decompressed should not be compressed that much before sending and that allows for implementations to bound the amount of extra RAM needed for initial fragment buffers which is something for instance that contiki already does but Kentucky arbitrarily chose 38 bytes is the amount that they limited to additionally we suggest that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:09",
    "text": "there should be either a bound on the amount of compression of interior headers for tunnel hockey v6 or that that feature should be removed entirely because from observing these five different stacks it looked like there was a decent amount of complexity in terms of how these different stacks handled this possibility of unbounded recursion and we also found that that seemed to be a place where the stacks varied a lot and so that\u0027s why that second requirement is there and then finally guideline for is just this importance of not specifically breaking layering within a protocol we realized that it can be very appealing to do cross layer optimization and embedded systems especially given you know how much how little energy is often available however it\u0027s very difficult to design robust systems that will interoperate well when you\u0027re doing this cross layer optimization and you know the ability to use libraries etc can be very important especially for these embedded operating systems where different network transport layers etc might be used and for 6lowpan the the one primary application that we suggest there is that UDP checksum elision shouldn\u0027t be an option we did notice that for the five operating systems that we analyzed tiny OS was actually the only one that implemented you need a checksum elision and we believe that the downsides including it in terms of how it breaks and argument breaks layering can be complex to implement because it requires these application and link layer checks for message integrity codes and permission from the application layer that it\u0027s simply not worth the small energy say things that it can provide so that\u0027s my four guidelines I\u0027d really like to know what you guys think about different suggestions I had for 6lowpan about the guidelines themselves especially about the idea of adding this ICMP option when a given embedded implementation to not respond to a certain 6lowpan message because it is allotted portions of the specification please let\u0027s catch me so thank you so much for this one that you asked any questions I just give you a few hints here first for your spectrum and it\u0027s there is actually an RFC which would allow you to do that it\u0027s just answer I see we are using it in six leopard and GE update to signal like support for did if you\u0027re 6 or 6 lb etc we use bits in there so there\u0027s a good number of bits so if really we want to do a piece of that you could actually signal that and experiment with it now it\u0027s not just signaling it\u0027s it\u0027s having extra code to manage oh if he does that I do this if he does that I do this so what you\u0027re saving on one hand is a cost on the other one right so you had in code to save code so that there\u0027s a limit to this game to be discussed I realize that you make big enough classes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:09",
    "text": "because you were doing - fine grained classes you would spend your memory in order of course your cases and testing them etc so the real world is not exactly like that the real world is dimensions right right the real world as bodies which define interrupt tests it\u0027s not 6lowpan 6lowpan is more like there is a whole set of things you could be doing right and then there will be a VIP that would be a wise and that will be astride there will be any of those guys which was I say 100 that you live and I\u0027ll come back to this one which say ok out of all those things that six of our neighbors me to do there is exactly what I asked any implementation to do and there will be interrupters that there will be conformance tests and even if your stack supports more use the bare minimum because I know all the messages which will goes from my standard which is building on six leopard but it\u0027s not sixth repair building the many things report on the triple or all those things you\u0027re all the flows that men support i want your implementations got all these flows we got less of what else it supports and all will be tested here validated that\u0027s how actually because you have this logo I\u0027m the is a 100 albums epi P I\u0027m right I\u0027m whatever you know you\u0027ll get you won\u0027t get this probably to kill about not within one of those silos right so there is no real aim at six depends support everything assets to say all you have to support everything but each of those bodies will actually say what they really want and then example of that is that would come back to it is that yes anyone with a Chevrolet those guys are doing an industry standard for reliable wireless communication for process control and they use 600mm but actually she look at what they use from 6lowpan it\u0027s a very teeny tiny piece they have link-local tries to have global addresses but they if you look at the frames that resend the specified reader will be sending this these days it\u0027s a very tiny subset of what you can do is expand but it\u0027s enough to get their standards to work and everybody went round every month increments all those things one of the thing they mandated what we lied to check some and they came to it to us and they said okay if you want us to do ipv6 at all then you need to provide a way for us to rely to checksum because we have a nikkie at the end of the packet which is 4 bytes there\u0027s no reason for us no way for us to transport those two extra byte you don\u0027t do it we don\u0027t do ipv6 so we did it so you see sometimes it has to do with politics you talked about the power years and not more a year well it goes all the way to right yeah thank you just in reference to what you said at the beginning of when you were speaking regarding how there can be extra code to handle different cases for given capability spectrum I think the bright "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:10",
    "text": "side of the design of this capability spectrum is that the code for like deciding you know oh well I send at this level will I send at this level etc is at least offloaded onto the more capable devices so for instance a class 0 device always sends class 0 and a class 1 device simply has to decide between class 1 and class II arrow relatively easy and so it\u0027s actually the more resourceful devices that take on most of the additional code size so there\u0027s sort of a fairness aspect there thank you for this presentation I think it\u0027s really interesting the survey part I think we should digest and maybe there\u0027s there\u0027s some stuff we can do based on that the the the overarching design consideration society and having some trouble and I came here to basically say what Piscotty is saying that we in the IDF we publish our FCS and we\u0027re happy and you know that\u0027s fine and pretty but when it comes to the real world they couldn\u0027t care less they may take some hints from some RFC\u0027s they won\u0027t take them all completely I know for a fact so I\u0027ve looked at the specs for some of these organizations they call themselves 6lowpan there\u0027s no way a 6lowpan completely compliant per our definition implementation will ever interoperate with those that are culture so bad so even if we here go through the you know the enormous amount of work that it would be to basically restructure all our documents and the pleasure of one ba-ba-ba-ba-ba nothing guarantees they will even look at it or care about it because they go about looking at what do we have to deliver by yesterday they don\u0027t have the luxury of looking other stuff I\u0027m told I understand where they come from I\u0027m just I\u0027m and it\u0027s not like I\u0027m blaming them I mean if I were there I do the same thing you have to ship yesterday ok here\u0027s the shortcut we take here\u0027s another shortcut here\u0027s maybe something we think is honestly better maybe they have a better protocol instead of 6070 file they might use some other I\u0027ve seen that happen fine so they mix and match they call this a slow pen but not really so even if we did all this work here there\u0027s no guarantee but but still the the I still want to thank you for this this work this is great stuff and I\u0027m sure there\u0027s got to be some lessons here we have to take it back and digest I\u0027m just not sure the overarching thing might be one of those but there\u0027s there\u0027s got to be something here I\u0027m sure we can learn from this yeah yeah I mean I agree that going you know adding in all of these capability classes etc there\u0027d be no guarantee that everybody would do it I still think this idea that we sort of acknowledged that we don\u0027t expect that all implementations will implement you know every aspect of an RFC is particularly a convincing argument that you know perhaps there should at least be an ICMP error code that can you know convey when a given packet is dropped you know because of that so yeah thank you oh hey fellows I\u0027m so just like I want to respond to that come in intense calls coming I think that\u0027s totally right I mean there are these vertical silos people you know you have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:10",
    "text": "standards body that\u0027s using six weapons a basis for its underlying protocols but there might be parts in specification they don\u0027t want to use and I think direct that\u0027s fine that\u0027s the way the world works but the question is is that only one six look tend to be I mean the Internet is about connectivity and if we want to relegate 6lowpan to only being suitable for vertical silos I think that\u0027s one decision but another decision is canon specification themselves instead enable interoperability where it\u0027s not vertically salad that\u0027s you know we used open source operating systems these are people who would like to stick different devices together and get them to work and they can\u0027t because there aren\u0027t these sorts of guidelines our capability spectrum to think about and so I think those are two paths I personally like to see 6lowpan saying look of course you know open thread you\u0027re gonna do what you need to do and all about or gosh go into this IPV this UDP checksum compression that\u0027s fine you\u0027re doing it in your vertical silo but then for that to sort of propagate out and make it very difficult for open devices to interoperate that you know that was kind of a motivation that\u0027s that was what gave me pause and then you think would be useful to have this discussion Sumida Chakrabarti without the chair head thank you very much Knutson and the team to do this work doing the great analysis for different devices and coming up with a possible solution I think partly I agree with the previous argument that okay we have interoperability test we have different other considerations for implementations and their interoperability but I kind of like the idea of the capability but I have a couple of questions like maybe you need to think about at what point you want to do this capability exchange is it like startup time or application running time maybe I think maybe we could ask the bigger group if there are comments but personally I think this is a concept that maybe you are directing towards the capability of the memory and device capability maybe it could be used for some applications or some other way as well so overall I think the idea of having capability exchange is great and way that we can use exactly the same way you proposed or not that may be subject to discussion but thank you again yeah of course things and I totally agree that a you know the given capability split up that I put here is not necessarily ideal and definitely could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:10",
    "text": "be open to suggestions or interpretation two things first react to what Sunita said well if if if 6lowpan had that Academy and that ended up in the open source implementation yes surely that would have made life easier for someone wants to take a given open source implementation and use a in his standard for whatever he wants to do with it because we just have to cross a little few issue checks supposed to look at the code and say what does it does it do what I want so it would make the code the open source code much easier to reuse in various cases which is what if you said but it\u0027s another angle to say the same value now now I\u0027m reacting to fear when you talk about the silo it\u0027s a lot more than six nope and it goes from which value select how you do your security which crypto utilities you pick which option you put in your beacons means it\u0027s a damn big list of things of choices that you make so that at the end of the day that can be an ipv6 packets row it\u0027s it\u0027s socially complex it\u0027s it\u0027s so I don\u0027t relieve in the node talking to another node just like this but the cool the good news is that the silo is just a few hubs you know ipv6 is really where feel as it right it\u0027s at some point where rapidly you expand this package you go out of this particular radio network and now you have an ipv6 packet that you can fly through strong your network so so yes I guess you have to meet Lee ipv6 achieves what we want to do but it\u0027s way beyond a six top and one because what happens in this subnet is a lot more than six open compression suddenly yeah sure it still seems to be the case that while it\u0027s true that once you get to that give you six layer you know going to a border router everything communicate with each other but it you know I think sort of like in terms of like the long-standing vision for Internet of Things devices you know the vision isn\u0027t you know for somebody who\u0027s using IOT for you know home automation and stuff like that you know is not to have you know a border router for every single device they buy from every different vendor you know it\u0027s you know by you know a single router and you know all of your devices communicate with a single thing so I still it still seems like just totally accepting the silos but yeah thanks yeah I do agree and basically I said was I think there\u0027s something to rescue here I\u0027m trying to wrap my head around what could be rescued and maybe there\u0027s something I\u0027ve heard that I liked is like the ICMP message for example so maybe the way to think about it would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:10",
    "text": "if we set out to guarantee interoperability I think that\u0027s a very very very tall order we might fail because there\u0027s so many things outside of 6lowpan that would affect ultimately that but maybe the the bar at least to start with could be a little bit lower more practical saying okay is there anything we can add to help the people who presumably know what they\u0027re doing to interoperate just to do better troubleshooting so it\u0027s not that they don\u0027t have all the set of information in principle they do but still you\u0027ve made so many mistakes there\u0027s so many variables so many things that you need some help right this is supposed to work this is I\u0027m within a silo or whatever I\u0027m not inside about and I\u0027m an open source looking at them whatever it\u0027s supposed to work because I have an agreement you know but still I have no visibility so if maybe that\u0027s a practical bars to start with and and and that would be useful that would really help interoperability maybe in a more practical way than trying to boil the ocean sure I agree I think that the icmp recommendation is like the most eminently implementable and probably more useful than everything else yes so I I don\u0027t have particularly anything different to say but I want to stress you know the the point that Pascal was making and I agree with this I mean the there there it\u0027s much more than 600 pan and it\u0027s so complicated and trying to have yet another protocol that kind of announces the capabilities it\u0027s just not gonna work and and I think it takes it takes a group of industrial people to to come together and agree on you know Interop in trouble in chop test specifications I\u0027m not talking about silos I\u0027m talking about you know like-minded people same kind of business case and then they take a subset I think this relates to BL wig thing and I\u0027m not at all talking about your draft here but but I\u0027m you know I one thing that I that I find challenging in what we do at the ITF is that if you take all the must for all the drafts that are within our kind of IOT stack it doesn\u0027t fit in the Pentium computer so so I think we need to be it\u0027s very good that your your draft highlights have some of these parts but but I think we need to be aware of the fact that the specs that we that we define if we are if we were to implement every must and every of these specs it just wouldn\u0027t fit anywhere and so and so making making informed decisions about taking P bits and pieces is impossible to avoid thank you thanks Terry mandersohn interior director so thank you for doing this work really is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:10",
    "text": "appreciated and it\u0027s a credit to your program good work there\u0027s some aspects here that I really do like I mean the IETF has been a lot of time doing capability negotiation whether it\u0027s in BGP whether it\u0027s in sip SDP etc the list goes on and on and on so there might be some things to learn from that as to why it\u0027s not directly applicable in this constraint this very constrained environment that said I really do like the idea of the ICMP message getting that across the line interesting discussion at the end of the day one of the things that did come out of what I heard on the line is that when you\u0027re talking about different very small form factor devices it\u0027s not so much what they can communicate but what you can stamp on them on the box to say this might be a class zero device this might be a class five device and that might be enough to get some understanding and to get interoperability to a point where it\u0027s accessible I don\u0027t know but it\u0027s just highlighting that at the end of the day however that\u0027s a discussion for the entire work group so great work maybe come back a a more solid document and perhaps running code and see how that goes thank you very things Thank You dearie and also to respond to Pascal that the charter of this group is not only the header compression stuff but we can take any improvement and I would say if we if we do correctly the capability with the same P messaging if we find right application I think it\u0027d be a good addition very quickly I think we\u0027re out of time but please yeah this follows this one - I won\u0027t respond to Thomas items which is that I agree that having bodies that are doing new Interop tests etc be really valuable but for my personal experience that\u0027s actually been is not being someone initially that\u0027s actually very difficult for example we started this wine Tim blown open thread to do that I had to download a specification document which required me to sign a legal agreement and it\u0027s watermark to me right because I\u0027m not allowed to share this every single person wants to read that\u0027s the download a separate copy and if you don\u0027t think that this is in pay-to-play right if I actually wanted to do full interoperability just the idea that I have to pay to play to do 6lowpan in order to interoperate to me you know that it might be that that is in fact what we have to do but it kind of it rubs me the wrong way maybe that\u0027s because I I live in so but that\u0027s just this you served my what sort of prompted this and this is so crazy that that\u0027s a sign it\u0027s kind of legal goons just to send ipv6 packets yeah so we have this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:13",
    "text": "thing we\u0027ll talk about it tomorrow at six - we we have this project called F interrupts which is a free online interoperability platform you can send it co-op in six - and 6lowpan packets and it will tell you whether you\u0027re compliant or not just kind of the free version of what you\u0027re describing um thank you thank you very much so I think there\u0027s may be further revisions be done so we\u0027re out of time if anybody has the other mushi okay thank you very much so you in Bangkok I guess "
  }
]