[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "all right you\u0027re probably right click on the link and say open on your tap let yourself or the Russian tennis right click go back let\u0027s see if I can minimize this no can\u0027t do that but then don\u0027t scroll down here ok this is the just it just goes right back to you what is one more about and you\u0027re gonna go back again this one yeah yeah this isn\u0027t seat chair it doesn\u0027t let you do that ok though think I can do it you have to just kind of manual is just just copy that URL up there yes just copy the URL I\u0027m not a manual they just click on the + to create them to tap and then paste it just open like 10 cents or so I don\u0027t know how you there\u0027s no it not a dialogue for copy control V control now so I\u0027m thinking is there\u0027s two control V here so I\u0027m thinking okay that\u0027s mm that\u0027s not what the one that wanted them now let\u0027s see okay so this is something else Gary spin materials so I\u0027m thinking copy this then just open like pick up eight types of salad that\u0027s then each tab just go to a different presentation so like in this one we can go to the agenda status this one will go to BFD agree yeah hi [Music] this one didn\u0027t truly down low I\u0027m having the problem is that this hasn\u0027t been converted maybe don\u0027t know if it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "can actually display it don\u0027t you know it did work another line of the problem was okay not registered packing multi I have on this scroll down almost done okay so think we got all of them now open one more with the agenda see what the agenda slides we\u0027ve got B if the orange multi this one you think we got all of them so here I can do with you okay what\u0027s going on here okay escape okay now I figured stuck we can revert you control L now you know I think like some PDF viewers use control L but that doesn\u0027t work in a browser let\u0027s see is there some kind of presentation this one I guess no that\u0027s we cannot quite what do you want but now I guess this this is the best and there is some other option I think in the browser mmm yeah how do you do this guess maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "over here there\u0027s our full screen No well it\u0027s here this is this whole screen yeah yeah how do we get out of this there\u0027s a button to press for full screen okay cool there is a button here for full screen which is the same as that it is a browser and so oh really why are there so few people here that I\u0027ve given it to get going oh just waiting for everyone to show up demo people are talking to lights just the way there\u0027s also dis foot to water to the slides I mean that\u0027s what this is for I never during the okay let\u0027s start it okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "welcome to 2 p.m. working group see you know hopefully seen enough to battle before it should be the same as you\u0027ve seen in other meetings this is our agenda so yeah the first step is what you\u0027re doing right now just go free working up status and stuff any comments on the rest of the agenda hope we didn\u0027t miss any requests don\u0027t think we have all the presenters in the room by the way but we\u0027ll see how that goes yeah thanks for taking notes ok so this is to work nerd status big news is that we published our first yang model so that took a long time a lot of effort from people so happy to see that dumb there\u0027s also a PA on mobile that also is completed it\u0027s just waiting for some references I think basically some other other documents that need to be published as RFC s as well yeah we got a lot of stuff in the queue now also the reserved bits is in the RFC editors queue we requested publication for the IGMP Emily sleeping young model so just waiting for our ad to get the cycle salute Khalid and also PMD our improvements we also just requested publication so what\u0027s the stuff we completed and also MSTP young model so we did get some response from Alvaro he revealed that and we needed have waiting for a new person I believe do load balancing as well he requested publication Alvaro had a lot of comments that I addressed of one of the offers and it\u0027s going to rsg evaluation now then we have some working group drafts just three more drafts so basically all the drafts and just mentioned they\u0027re all like in the queue to be published but they got three drafts that are current working group documents that we are working on so now register packing B if the point to multi-point and the Arjun P Emily proxy young models so those are the existing working work group documents they got some new documents presented today and guess we\u0027ll consider adoption for some of them yeah that\u0027s it right all right any comments on that okay then the next on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "the agenda should be yeah probably yeah should be let\u0027s see maybe this one yeah so so should be present it\u0027s working your special we figured we have to actually push it all the way in others other chairs can\u0027t figure it out okay so this is an update there was very interesting discussion on a list about more experienced detection for the world balancing and we already have proposal how to do dr BD are expedited monitoring using a point-to-multipoint b FD or how to refer to in RFC as leave d for multi point networks am i doing it wrong no no it\u0027s probably i have that\u0027s alright I know I broke it in alright okay we\u0027ll give up on that okay thank you okay so how it works for designated router world balancing so RFC introduced what now will be our C because okay the draft introduced to hello options capability advertisement and group designated router candidate list what we are proposing that a pin router that includes capability hello option may include be the discriminator PM option that already been defined in this draft in support of dr BD are monitoring and when the router advertised that it creates BFD session as multiple in head according to BFD for multi-point networks which is now our 50 85 62 it sets the session down so only creates a state no the packets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "being transmitted if the PM if the router receives that they used the discriminator with a cap hello option sees itself in a group designated router candidate list that dia router distributes then it\u0027s a move session to the Upstate and start politically transmitting MIDI control messages at the same time dr creates or before sending the first up or updated candidate list it creates a session as multi here multi-point leaf and starts the multiplexing packets because well them could be a multiplicity of candidates so that\u0027s a multiplicity of point-to-multipoint in video sessions so it looks for the discriminator but since the discriminator only in my field which is specific to this type of BFD session it needs to know the source IP address so and as already stated in the document the source IP address must be the same source the same ip address as included in hello pin hello so the idea is if we can go next slide so the idea is that they are monitors the well-being of candidate or it could be they are in video because it\u0027s a multi-point network and then can detect whether the candidate is available so if it\u0027s not available it can generate updated candidate it can generate the hello message with updated Kindle at least nice faster then hello interval and that\u0027s the convergence in a world balancing will happen much faster so that pretty much the same the idea of course are the dr itself is the candidate but since it doesn\u0027t need to monitor itself others can monitor it if dr is using a point-to-multipoint b FD is already defined in this draft to for expedited convergence so for example b dr can monitor dr as a candidate for the load balancing as and as a they are so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "don\u0027t need to create two sessions next slide so that\u0027s their new update to the draft and we welcome your questions comments and will ask well if there are not many comments from the consider working group last call and come now from cisco so if you are running these BFBS from GDR to all endpoints are two endpoints is between Dr Ng Diaz yes Dr Ng there\u0027s dr dr and v dr because ok the the benefit is that because it\u0027s a point-to-multipoint session so firstly is it creates less state because it\u0027s unidirectional right so the specificity specifics of our point-to-multipoint BFD it uses demand mode so only there one side generates messages but at the same time since it\u0027s not active tail listener the leaf knows the state of the path and their route so in this case they are in vidya will know can monitor the state of an arab candidate okay so basically if you detect a failure you read on the VRA like yes okay that\u0027s the idea yeah so everyone so by the way thanks for that clarification you just had it was one of my questions as well okay but one thing I was wondering is I agree that you know you only really needed the art to monitor the GDR but I know there are some some payment limitations would be a fever you just have hearings between all the neighbors and you just listen you know to check your neighbors going away in general yeah well again we are not mandating it this is option and they\u0027re nice about point-to-multipoint that comparing to RFC fifty eight eighty which described all actually fifty eight eighty described all the possibility for the team applicability is I believe it\u0027s a single hobby FD so it\u0027s a synchronous mode a synchronous mode will create more state because if we have the more routers we have on the same shared segment the raw the more pin routers on the same shared segment so the more state of BFD sessions that create full mesh between will be there so and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:17",
    "text": "think that that\u0027s where the benefits of using the land mode and point-to-multipoint BFD will become more significant yeah the main the main thing I was wondering about in a way yeah was you know there\u0027s it says here that you Lachie they are you take the session state up or down based on whether you are currently announced yes and I was wondering a bit in does it make sense to just always keep it up in case some papers are well the thing well actually its again if there is a use case when it\u0027s might be interesting just to track the world being of a node yes but at the same time well again we might make it optional yes I don\u0027t really have any answers but I was wondering about that but I see you know on the slide here it says must set the session you know such as day two down maybe it shouldn\u0027t well well again the idea is that since we\u0027re using it to track only the those who are listed in a candidate list so if if we want to make more generic saying okay well we are tracking everybody who announced the capability to be candidate then we\u0027ll probably will change that because then then we\u0027ll change it even from the beginning that we\u0027re after they announced their capability they will set their session up because current text says that the session is initial state is down and you bring it up only if you see yourself on the candidate list so if there is a use case to make it well let me see if it use case to make it less restricted okay so for example we can say should say that set it down so which will allow implementers to consider some environments where they want to start it up to begin with and then we can say should take it down we shall Gail give them justification not to take it down yeah yes so I don\u0027t have any answers but but one thing for instance I\u0027m wondering about this one is the our state right it\u0027s useful to use PFD to quickly did Herman who is the Dro GDR but also possibly maybe things like a start state for instance if you this if you track neighbors and you see that you know the Oscar winner went down that Islands you know there could be things like that that\u0027s what again I you know I\u0027m not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:18",
    "text": "that versed in a Pimm\u0027s scenario so if there is a use case I would be willing to discuss it and then we can modify and make it less restrictive this but but yeah I was gonna say thanks for doing this I mean Shimano the offers so the allowed balancing - and I think you know that this makes it better thank you okay thank you again since Stig mentioned that there might be some scenarios that might change the normative language let\u0027s keep it open for comments from the list if they will really like idea of making it less restrictive for example change must - should and if there are such requests yeah I think that there is no problem but I would like to first understand why before making it and after that we\u0027ll see yeah I\u0027ll try to provide comments on the list and see if we can you know make some progress you know with pity for the next meeting great thank you okay that should be imagine proxy yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s them no no that\u0027s the one we had some trouble with so if Connor came out in the wrong order all right yeah at cousins work you can try it but now it\u0027s not actually maybe it\u0027s pointing here we have it working for a few seconds again good afternoon i\u0027m shefaly oh I\u0027m here to give a quick update to the I jump in with the epoxy your model next week so this document that just recently being attacked update to the adult working group document so after that this is a first update after the talk at option nice place yeah so we after the adoption and during the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:19",
    "text": "process because someone reveal comments so here some updates so one acted the way I did the option at the confusion leave to specify the sender sauce I dress so in case we have multiplied dresses so this one will be used through the reporter D and kima option a flexibility for the user so I think highlights used to be highlighted but anyway okay so that\u0027s aligned with the source address next my spleen same thing here to the I\u0027m ready [Music] vacation tree same the pinheaded extra space so another leave your comments is about the future mode were stainless also each sauce which tell me makes analysis so it shouldn\u0027t be there the theater mode for the core team so you can either any particular sauce or xcode included extras or should be either black also only so we remove the not proper position the filter mode so this is a clean up next are trees seem seem to the MRD that the same changes next fights so yeah that\u0027s it some quick updates to the changes alright thank you so this document was just adopted but I was gonna say do you feel like the document is complete do you have anything more you plan to do with it for and yeah well still discussing and we asked further review unless you saw anything to remove one thing I imagine for any vendors to see if this if their implementation works well with this or if if you know needs some adjustments to the model and also for anyone using the model for any management if it has what what you need yeah thank you anybody Thank You Craig thank you guys thanks okay sorry it\u0027s too late "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:20",
    "text": "[Music] just my after shots that are just a question about expressed more to try do you think that you were drafted already includes explicit mode the tracking function well well the the reason why I\u0027m asking this is that because Express trapping sorry for my really great but the explicit tracking mode itself is really important it it\u0027s well known the problem is that that function actually I was I am still also that expired draft but so so so this is a question so it\u0027s already expired and well maybe it\u0027s maybe it\u0027s my problem but the question is that whether we should include that function because that function sir is very important the problem is that the doctor was not it was not draft rejected I mean that the draft was accepted but the problem was in my I\u0027m not sure what the intention of the draft state is for example it should be a standard track or information or experimental and the other vendors are already implemented and that there is no consideration about wired communication so so there was a comment from the ad so why we definitely need to have that kind of draft especially for as a standard track document so that\u0027s why it\u0027s really stucked and but that function itself is really important and I\u0027m sure that several vendors are already implemented that function and young mothers should focus on that kind of important function so the question is what we or they should do yeah so at least it\u0027s possible to have a young model for something even if there is no no draft right of C for the actual functionality like yeah I\u0027m trying to think here but but basically you can you can define you know as long as there\u0027s implementations that have like certain ways knobs were for a neighboring or whatever you can you can define the young model for how to do that even if it\u0027s not 100% define how the feature works which I\u0027ll put a mean to the draft expert Oh exact problem cause problem even worse than not referencing that right so yeah it\u0027s important that I think that there\u0027s a common understanding what explicit tracking means but I think that\u0027s pretty well understood it\u0027s just that there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:20",
    "text": "no document for it if technically I think it\u0027s fine to have an informational reference to expire draft in all right yeah but but it has to be just informational usually in the model if it put any laughing state in there you know what I mean is just in general with RFC\u0027s you know if it\u0027s if it\u0027s not to achieve them it\u0027s okay if it\u0027s just an expired draft but another thing is whether it\u0027s okay for the reference to just be informative yeah okay we think about that it\u0027s to see if we can catch some direction from Charis I\u0027ll be good another thing though is you know in when you are making this model you try to define what is kind of common for all the main implementations right so do you know whether all the months you looked at already have explicit tracking or yeah we need to have some feedback any vendors can have some information that you great so we know we\u0027ll be doing we will try to actively pull some vendors see if we can have so yeah hi I\u0027m presenting the non-registered packing draft I\u0027m not an offer I\u0027m just doing this on behalf of the offers I should say though that um I\u0027ve been close involved with with the offers discussing this and stuff so just just so you\u0027re aware of that but but just a quick status update or this draft really so there was I worked in a blast call for this draft some months ago or weeks ago and and there was only one response to that I think and and there are several suggestions in that in that though and one of them was that it should be with some way of coping with that what you see here basically as part of the register packing you try to discover if the RP actually supports it you don\u0027t want to send a packet register unless you know for sure that it can be processed so there is to find a way of detecting that the RP supported was having a flag in a register stop but what happens if your RP is suddenly downgraded so it doesn\u0027t support this anymore so the draft discusses how to detect that basically if I remember now if we send a packed register and you don\u0027t get a register stop back then there\u0027s a chance that your RP no longer supports it but is it that there\u0027s some new disc text to to discuss how the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:21",
    "text": "system otherwise I don\u0027t know what else is missing there was only that one response and and this was done to handle that so yeah I guess people need another last call or what do you think Mike why don\u0027t we do it last call last dinner might be like two months ago I think it was after last night EF okay yeah I think yeah you you sent of the last call requests but well yeah so at least has a chair you know I feel like you know we need more we need more responses than one person at leasts yeah and we\u0027re entering a create where it\u0027s gonna be hard to get sponsors to with the whole guys coming up so it\u0027s gonna be tough I mean we either wait for the new year and do it again or well let\u0027s you and I figure that out together but ah but probably good ask if people in the room think it\u0027s ready for a working group last call yeah I mean we decided that it was ready you know previously but we haven\u0027t got very few responses or basically one response yeah but yeah I know should we ask the room or just a good I mean okay so as a chair how many people have read this drafts to two people do you both think it looks useful or yeah yeah I should say we also have another a cert packing draft that we will discuss later and it\u0027s basically the same idea I believe it\u0027s there\u0027s a number of pages that are Paris comma G but similar to join prints it might be useful to to have multiple a long message okay I guess we\u0027ll figure it out yes responses now anyway it\u0027s doubled it yeah yeah yeah so yeah you should go after those people and get their feedback okay yeah but I would say it\u0027s a challenge for this working group in general to to get people to respond in there yeah if you\u0027re able to be great to have more activity on the mailing list and more responses in general okay okay I think Toshi is up let\u0027s find it you presenting okay okay so hello everybody I\u0027m Reese "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:22",
    "text": "controller from telefónica or could do it with you Toshi a xylophone Nick in this idea of multiple absolute interface support for IEP I am PMD proxy so the idea well we were turned to revive this the other we did take in some time ago and now trying to be more pushing a little bit more be more active on on that so basically they they be able be to having to support in a in the proxy the capability of having multiple option interfaces this enables a number of use cases I will detail later on but basically the point would be to make a more efficient usage of the network and also enabling new new situation so the point will be basically to be able of receiving the multi multicast packets multicast content in both of these interfaces according to different situations different policies could be applied to on top of that so the we\u0027ve mentioned there this one possibilities like well receive a LT wife a over so the day the the span of a scenario sees is quite large and we will take a little a bit later next slide so the objective yeah basically to have the possibility of receiving multicast sessions because content in different upstream interfaces the solution sohow addresses the requirements that are documented in in another draft this and now progress in in the dependent stream or stop actually progressing so who\u0027s moved to the in the potential mission stream and yeah there are get pain in the comments to be addressed is somehow has been in doermann by a while by one year or so so ideal is also to push again these other graphs on requirements but basically a we are looking at those requirements in order to define the the solutions that are and at the scope of this draft next slide please so regarding the benefits that we foreseen if this was implemented is basically having a flexible operation so either we could select the do what is they obscene interface based on the subscriber that is requesting the service or either even a in base of the channel of the content that is being provided so we could play with these two alternatives let\u0027s say a part of this flexible operation this solution could enable a robust data reception because we will be able even after the same content receipt by the two interfaces this could be one of the of the situations and this enables only scenarios of high availability for instance in the network and all okay even in other situations where we just received the condemning in one of the two we could have mechanisms for protecting the the delivery of the content and having a switch between "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:23",
    "text": "interfaces if required in order to have the service alive yet even in the case of events in the network next in the use cases our refreshment on this huh I will detail trying to tell a bit different use cases that were documented already in the requirements draft one situation would be the multicast wholesale offer for residential services so we could it could be the case that one operator enables also enables also the delivery of content from another provider an OTT provided for instance in such a way that a subscriber to this operator has the opportunity to receive and a content from either the own content or the content from the this OTT provider multicast resiliency for sure in the case we have these two interfaces we could or two or more interfaces we could provide more resiliency to the delivery of multicast traffic to the network load balances for multicast traffic so in this case we basically could take prof the fact that the in a normal deployment in the normal they mentioning of the network for unicast traffic we basically dimension the network with a V of having a low and maximum load per link of fifty percent of the traffic in such a way that if a link goes down to the link inducks of all the traffic in normal conditions most of the time the these capacities is bacon so having this possibility of receiving traffic by through more than one interface we could take profit of that in order to use this per capacity in the level for a receive more content and only reducing the available bandwidth in case of an event so we could enable also these kind of things also there are situations or procedural real operational situations were having more than one assume interface would be beneficial like the case of the network merging so you are matching networks and and you have different contents may be overlapping the addressing of the content and so we could play with this fact in order to have a smooth integration of all networks and finally the multicast service migration so the same idea if we need to somehow to migrate a service we could enable a second interface a second upstream interface for the migrated content while keeping the ribbon another interface for the old content so all of this as I mentioned before is documented in the requirement and draft so it\u0027s available also for for you to check so we in this solution drug we are proposing to two ways two chances one would be the automatic upstream interface configuration to for this case for this choice we have yet we need to do some more investigation how to solve the the point so here there is a list of questions that we are trying to address so for instance how the proxy can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:23",
    "text": "automatically is like the appropriate obscene interface for this channel so we will show how to identify what would be the required logic for doing that or even if they would be required some kind of signaling for enable that how the procedure detect inactive obscene interfaces maybe checking the status of interfaces maybe enable enabling messages for for that and also starting to research investigate is what could be the triggers that would make the the proxy a command switch from one absolute interface to the other so these are open questions I will try to address in the next version next slide please for the second choice that will be the centralized control something like Sdn basically what we would require is to have a centralized controller that is able to instruct the proxy in order to use one interface of the other based on either on the subscriber or in the content or both so basically for that we will require to define a kind of interface in the proxy to for the permitting the controller to configure the proxy for the for this election one benefit of this centralized view would be that the controller could have a centralized overview of all the the proxies in the network and probably coordinate all the mechanisms of delivery instructing the proxies accordingly in order to set up the properties of not not at least but in order to identify what is that they appropriate absol interface for for delivering the traffic and this could be done based on information about congestion you should recall is shown etc so we could rely somehow also in things like telemetry and so for having these these kind of decisions next slide please so regarding the next steps already has to keep the analysis to keep working on the analysis without Maddie configuration so understand what could be the on stand train to figure out what do with the scenary procedures for enabling this they are in the centralized approach sorry trying to understand what would be the implications on the interface that we require for managing and controlling the proxy and our idea will be to provide a revised version of this draft before next site even meeting and keep discussing it is of interest for the for the working group so any comment to provide he\u0027s more than welcome and that\u0027s all for my say thank you any questions okay very good so this is still on the individual track right yet I mean that is that was the yeah the plan forward and it\u0027s gonna stay on that track well actually well actually the the difficulties of this solution is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:25",
    "text": "that we don\u0027t have automatic best interface selection mechanism even in a pinwheel out I think so but I\u0027m not sure so if some of you already know that there is some good mechanism to detect the let\u0027s say the interface that does not have a good quality and different interface that that has a good quality for the same content then we can switch back to the or we can just use that best interface or better interface but even in a long tie itself I don\u0027t know how we can get such kind of decision so if there is such kind of mechanism in Pimlott or whatever then we can just add up the same way make a new into this one so the our header equi is actually the topic we service the selection mechanism for our jpml the proxy upstream interfaces it\u0027s something like a specific question our specific topic but the discussion point or the core question is actually really a similar to the pin loudly so maybe so do do some does some of you have some good answer for that one so the heat today made some presentation about Sdn I like situation maybe that is more feasible yeah so controller knows the quality and that\u0027s why he made a presentation today it\u0027s actually he\u0027s from operator so he has a great knowledge about operators point of view so I\u0027m not operator his proposal mainly his proposal is with Sdn like controller based solution if we concentrate on that one then maybe we may have a good chance to provide a more complete solution for the March perhaps 3-meter face selection mechanism but for the pure distributed mechanism like a ping lauter autonomous routers so it\u0027s a really difficult to address this kind of issue what do you think yeah that\u0027s a good point you have yeah so not sure how relevant but I know this one implementation that supports multiple interfaces that makes you so the well it means it\u0027s a team router to but it makes use of the RPF interface to reverse the RP address to towards GRP to determine where to send a report so let\u0027s say you have figure typical use case for this is you have to pimp domains but you don\u0027t want to run pin between them so you do your P between the two pin domains but the pim router dance downs the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:27",
    "text": "downstream pim router what be configured with two different IP addresses from two different providers or something for four different groups and and you might use the RPF interface to figure out which provider like where should you set the LGP report for which group that\u0027s just one example oh there could be other ways so you know koala matically determining where to send the report well for the pin router the router logging protocol depends on our lanai on the LPF mekinese but for the proxy it doesn\u0027t we cannot rely on our PF interface so this is a biggest difference from the proxy and router because Roxy doesn\u0027t have the unicast routing table toward the source right so currently the proxy only decide one single interface he doesn\u0027t have any outing protocol allowing proto bandar-log in table itself so always fixed us one single interface this is a problem so we don\u0027t would like to address this kind of a situation the reason why I think are you already remember that wise so why the proxy doesn\u0027t allow the multiple upstream interface because it\u0027s just for the simplicity reason so previously map in a magma we discussed several time for this kind of stopping but finally we decided we should fix the single upstream router and because proxy doesn\u0027t have any routing protocol routing table so we can just fix the simple oxime router and that previously thing is over 15 years ago it\u0027s sufficient but now it\u0027s not optional so that\u0027s why we want to have a multi-core interface but again we don\u0027t have a locking protocol we don\u0027t have a loading table we cannot have this idea I hear you\u0027re saying that but wouldn\u0027t the the proxy often have a unicast routing table I mean you want to be able to forward únicos packets to the to the correct upstream interface right yes but usually it assumed that the external outside like a home net so downstream is something like home network the upstream is a internet the internet so usually the the downstream network segment is something like a private network and outside is external Internet but it depends on the use case where it\u0027s a home network or not but but least like for instance you know you might like prefix of prefix delegation but but basically there are cases where you might have a route saying that for certain prefixes always want to route the traffic to a certain provider and if you have something like that then especially for SSM you you know it would make sense to send s Komachi reports to to that already had a route for the source right in that case the question is in that case the dethklok\u0027s eBooks allows multiple upstream interface that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:28",
    "text": "is not defined in the policy no no but yeah there\u0027s a lot of different use cases and scenarios and I know in some cases you don\u0027t have any information you basically just connected to two providers you have a maybe a default route for each and that\u0027s it mm-hmm so I think the discussion so that draft itself is really important and it\u0027s really the lease and situation we need this function but the problem is again the solution may be a little bit difficult except the situation using Sdn are like them troller if we can just concentrate Sdn based solution if working besides maybe we can just concentrate yeah depends what the working group think is important but but yeah I would say it\u0027s probably not a good good idea to try to solve every possible use case of non documents okay okay pick your up again yeah see there\u0027s some interesting formatting here we looked fun in the PowerPoint okay so this is motivated by some working in beer so in the beer working group we are working on love an IBM PR MLD overlay to signal interest in receiving certain flows across the beer the beer network what we figure though is that we don\u0027t get all the information we need there\u0027s some beer specific information that would be quite useful to to receive via the Audion pure ml d report so we have this this side you have in beer we have some other overlays like a pin overlay for instance where we usage own attributes that comes past this extra beer information and we are looking for some other way of doing this for a GMP or MLD and what i came up with is there is this additional data part in our MP ml d and maybe we can use that to make an extension and that\u0027s what this is about so this sounds like it\u0027s gonna be all beard but because we are responsible responsible for our EMP and ml d in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:29",
    "text": "working group and it\u0027s kind of like a big change I think it\u0027s important to do it here so so this is beer specific but it might be useful to have a generic way of extending our GMP an ml d so let\u0027s see yeah next slide so in our EMP version 3 and Emily were since you RFC\u0027s there is this text about additional data for both queries and reports it basically says that if the message is longer than expected there is some additional data at the end of the message you should check some everything but usually otherwise they just ignore whatever is there so it means that if we were to sum up with some extra date at the end existing implementations would just ignore it which is great next slide so what I\u0027m proposing in this draft is that if you have an idea peer MLD message like in this case an IP version 3 query at the end there in blue there is like an extension type and extent extension value so you could say if you don\u0027t support some kind of extension and you just ignore this the current implementations would just ignore it but if we if we want to do an extension and say you support a specific extension type then you check what comes after there and you might say why do we need an extension type why don\u0027t why don\u0027t they just put the beer data at the end but just in case someone comes up within a few years so whatever with some other reasons you extended your peer MLD to be useful to have some type to indicate what is this data and make sure that that implementation doesn\u0027t accidentally try to parse and think what what is what is there next slide so excuse me so even though I\u0027m not considering any other extensions I think there\u0027s a chance at some point in time it might want some other extension and that\u0027s why I want to have this accession type there and the idea is current implementations would completely ignore it based on the current RFC\u0027s if you support the specific type in extension and fine you process it if you don\u0027t understand or don\u0027t support that type then you again just ignore it like you would do today for us I haven\u0027t seen any bit trying to kind of distinguish between what I think you want to do right now which is kind of ignore if you don\u0027t understand versus the sorry this is not backward-compatible please panic if you don\u0027t understand it it\u0027s a narrow yeah right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:29",
    "text": "so one thing is i don\u0027t want to require any changes to existing implementations but yeah if you support but I mean you\u0027re defining here watch what you do if you support extensions and then then something we could say is yeah if you see an extension type you don\u0027t understand them no it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it sure like I mean I I was just thinking that in the past we we had in other protocols I\u0027m trying to remember where this this thing and I don\u0027t have a good example right now but there are people to consider that ya know certainly I mean depending on what that extension is you know it could be that it completely changes how we used the data and the message and if you just treat it as a normal message it could be bad somehow I\u0027m not 100% sure but I giant beaker he doesn\u0027t have a virgin number field it\u0027s right yeah it\u0027s based on the length so they\u0027re right that\u0027s it right right so currently hostile just recognize the size of the Curie message and then the some let\u0027s say 100 this is gesture for example 100 bytes shirley is like a virgin one 120 32 130 is version 3 like this yes yes if you just add the query message and it changes the length there are the clear message you may fail if we have the RGB version food right so yeah let me comment on that so at least the way it\u0027s defined now is RGB version 2 is 28 bytes maybe I\u0027m not sure now it is a certain size and if the message is larger than that size then it\u0027s supposed to be sergeant Pearson three right partly because at least for like a specific query you know it that the length is variable as well for version 3 so so it\u0027s not always a fixed size but I get your point if we were to ever define Olympia worse than 4 we would need maybe some other tricks than just the length to decide which which worse than this okay it\u0027s something I\u0027ll look into that but yeah I believe it should be whether it\u0027s the minimum size or longer I and that this is the Terminator okay I\u0027ll look into that so about this extension types so yeah I was saying how he would ignore it if you don\u0027t support it and stuff also would say though yeah mostly in general it will be a non-starter to try to make changes to IGMP queries and reports because just millions some implementations or deployments out there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:31",
    "text": "and they wouldn\u0027t change but if there\u0027s some extensions like in this case it\u0027s beer specific then you know it might be doable to expect at least those implementations to change or there are no implementations yet so that is helpful as well okay next slide so so that was about a generic part and then there is this specific beer extension I\u0027ll do this a little bit more quickly it was presented in beer earlier today as well but the main thing is the purpose so this extension is to identify who sent the message for beer we would like to know the subdomain that beer prefix and the B Friday like the beer I D or the sender so we could potentially have used the the source address so the EMP or ml d message but we would prefer to have all this information specified and what I\u0027m saying in this other graph did not be working group is that that mentioned on the top there is that you should always use this extension so we can know who it came from it\u0027s mostly useful for reports but it could be useful for queries as well if you want to do some logging or something ok next slide and this is what the extension would look like so you would have your normal id Imperium LD message and then this will come at the bottom with some extension type assigned by iana and then the content itself next slide please if there is one no no okay so so one question is is it a good idea to define a generic way of extending this I would say if you do though you know we should create a registry and we set the requirements for creating a new extension it should be something that is strict we don\u0027t want people to come up with lots of different extensions and in this case for beer I\u0027m at least the way I\u0027m arguing it is it would only be used must only be used when you encapsulate an attempt you MLD message inside beer so it would not be seen by non beer implementations if they do it though accidentally see if they were just ignore the extra data and the good thing in this case it\u0027s only support need to be supported by the beer routers that originates or receive these messages and there\u0027s no implementations today really so it\u0027s not like we need to upgrade a lot of implementations from Cisco so question is more for the whole working group instead of only you so so this extends and I know that with beer definitely it adds a lot of value but are we expecting more of these kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:33",
    "text": "use cases if some host or some application who is using IGMP and wants to add some extra context about join membership requests it\u0027s in future I mean I said today all the hosts they work either in v2 or v3 mode is it\u0027s more of stuck it\u0027s stagnant that we don\u0027t we don\u0027t do anything else in IGMP as of now but when we are opening this channel so is it good it is bad how it is it might add a lot of value as well if there are some new application coming they might want to add some extra content or extra context about what they expect from upstream Wouter yeah yeah I mean I think yeah I think I know you were us in the group and happy to hear what others think but yeah I think there could potentially be some use cases and well filo we you know in this working we should be in control of what use cases get sterilized so what extensions so if someone has a use case we should consider it here and see whether it makes sense but yeah you could imagine for certain cases that maybe some host implementation for instance was announced to support something new the thing now is you can\u0027t expect devices in general to support new extensions I don\u0027t know if we could also be some interesting things to think about related to like sleeping and proxying and stuff and what happens if some support and extension and always do nots and in the beer case at least it\u0027s encapsulated and there\u0027s no no LTE devices on the path so that\u0027s good one question I have for the working group is well one is is it okay to extend our Jim PNM LD if we do is this scheme reasonable with this extension type another question is I\u0027m trying to figure out what should we do in this group I what should we do in beer and there was some discussion about that in beer this morning too so I feel like the extension mechanism itself should definitely be done in this working group but the actual beer TLV that you see here that could potentially be done in the beer working group depending on what people think mom come not from it Cisco so I think yeah you clearly mentioned that this part of the work can go to be a working group and I really feel that I am extension defining a new and you might be good there might be new use cases coming in future from multicast and host might not be just hosts what they are today they might be some kind of application which can do much more than just doing a jumpin so yeah it would it would it would open new opportunities there to do something yeah yeah okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:35",
    "text": "yeah that\u0027s an offer I\u0027m curious whether you know this can be adopted or what interest rates and they group or okay so who who\u0027s read this draft of those two hands do you think it\u0027s ready to be adopted by the yeah okay so obviously we need to ask the same question in the list but yeah so yes some other way in in beer working with we have this overlay draft that has its adopted that has been around for a long time and to progress that it would be good to get this done sorta quickly if we can I mean I may have been confused but its own is if you mention in beer something like it was first onion work one working group or some other document had first been done in on working group and then thrown over the fence was they actually something like that because as long as we don\u0027t find another example then the beer one it might be better to kind of bring it into good shape and beer first alright so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a little bit what I what I\u0027m worried about that you know how do we verify that this is in good shape without another example that that\u0027s best done in beer right so yeah I mean if you ask me as some offer or whatever I mean I\u0027m also working on that Amidala drafted beer I feel like it makes sense to do this option in beer actually and and you know there\u0027s been like tlvs for our GPS and so on to that were defined in beer because the actual use case of the option how it is handled what you put in there and so on that\u0027s all beer specifics so my current thinking now if you guys agree is view this the definition of this actual option into the MLD overlay drafted beer which is an existing working with document in beer and just focus on the extension scheme and the registry and their rationale for having extensions in general in this group I think I think it would be good to have a second example right I mean just even if just yeah even if we don\u0027t want to standardize it just you know is there any way for us to to better vet the idea of extensibility so what would shake one example alright so one thing I know is I think some people have been suggesting putting like me and I or Ian ID or something into what is that like you know for me excellent whatever so you can know the context or some context identify in general if you have like births as well well I mean Greg is sleeping so I mean either the obvious idea coming to mind which would be the same would be something like if you do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:36",
    "text": "it that for rsvp-te or so if you want to build a point-to-multipoint tree would that have something like similar properties because you need to know the leaf some specific identifiers not that I would want to do it right but yeah just that we kind of vet the extensibility somehow yeah another thing there\u0027s been a proposal in this working group for reliable IGMP or saying that you said an AK or something so for instance you know you could have an extension in our GMP queries saying I support a core please sit on a core whatever or yeah I Cisco so I think I good steak actually got he\u0027s taking a right approach here that\u0027s a there\u0027s undefined space now that you can use but you cannot use it once for beer right you have to put his steel research in place so other features can be added later so splitting that into drafts want to define that you have a structure and one in beer as a use case I think that\u0027s perfectly enough to do this right you don\u0027t need to another use case I think yeah I should also say at least my thinking is I don\u0027t want to go overboard I mean in theory we could define some kind of a GMP options like how options we could add like lots of theories and so on but I\u0027m intentionally thinking it\u0027s best to keep it as simple as possible all I want is this identifier to just make sure that it doesn\u0027t conflict with other possible extensions in the future maybe maybe I wasn\u0027t expressing myself while I\u0027m certain I\u0027m not saying that the document itself should have a text about additional examples it was just kind of if we had a discussion just in terms of okay you know each of us thinks about something and then we feel more safe that you know it will work for extension right so that\u0027s great and I certainly be happy to hear from from people will yeah yeah that sounds good okay okay so yeah sounds good thanks so there\u0027s up next while you\u0027re coming up just to confirm with the working group we\u0027ve had an understanding with the spring working group that they are not chartered to work on multicast related type stuff in the spring working group there\u0027s been a little bit of question recently because they had something added to their Charter and so people were kind of curious if that was the case so this is Ian and I had a conversation about this earlier so just an hour ago in the the ad the spring eighties and and chairs agreed that spring is indeed not chartered to work on that type of work that they expect it to be done here in pym and if we need their help or get their feedback and you should we should do so we were under "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:37",
    "text": "this understanding that we could always put things back to them if we need to but it sounds like there\u0027s not any plan for that to even anytime soon to take place there\u0027s not gonna be any change so does anybody have any questions or comments on that before hooman goes that that\u0027s our understanding so if we were to adopt we were certainly free to adopt these kind of drafts is what I is what our point is yeah also I think hopefully we\u0027ll mention this as part of your presentation so there is this one draft being considered for adoption and spring that is like a replication option or something but this is kind of going further with with that so so this small part might be done in screen we might consider yeah exactly maybe if you can bring up this slide so oh yes yeah so if you can\u0027t go to the next slide but let me let me start from a score one what what this graph is trying to achieve so currently when it comes to the transport and mainly in in 5g and some of these converge course signal routing is playing a big role when it comes to traffic engineering slicing you guys heard about a slicing at lunchtime segment routing is eight and that\u0027s because of the controller has the view of the entire network it simplifies the overlay it simplifies the underlay it actually signals the MPLS labels via IGP and all those good stuff that you guys know so the issue becomes that when we go to providers and we try to sell them sigma routing if they have any multicast type of services that is running currently NL DP or point-to-multipoint rsvp-te and the question becomes i want to say in MPLS type of transport but now I have all these MPLS signaling that I removed from unicast what should I do and this is where this draft and this idea comes into play so basically when it comes to the transport it\u0027s the same transport that we have today in MPLS it\u0027s just an incoming label outgoing interfaces and outgoing labels so there\u0027s nothing changed on the data path of the MPLS it\u0027s just how we nailed down the point-to-multipoint tree this idea says let\u0027s use the controller to nail it down previously we were using signaling like LVP and rsvp-te so that\u0027s the only part that this draft is trying to resolve it\u0027s trying to simplify multicast remove some of the current legacy and I used "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:40",
    "text": "that term careful in Legacy multi called multicast protocols and moving to the Sdn controller if you can go to the next so here\u0027s a brief a story how it started I think my previous explanation kind of explaining you know what was the theme behind this idea now we have started introducing a draft in is free spring source routing multicast every single node you have a state and you need to make a decision at every single node on transit or even on the leaf so it\u0027s not so much of a source routing when it comes to the multicast and that\u0027s where they become a little bit of what\u0027s the right border clash maybe not on what\u0027s the right word to use here in the spring Charter saying that this is not source routing because every single router has to make a decision and this is why we introduced one draft in this spring it\u0027s a replication segment I\u0027ll explain later on what the application replication segment is but the bulk of the work which is the point to multi-point policy how the whole thing works we decided to bring it into the pane just we felt like you know there is more multicast expertise here and you know they can address this point multi-point three better in NP mattered in in signaling so this is how the architectural Draft has been a slice and dice as of now there is one a small graph in segment routing in a spring the reason that we put it there at the end of the day this draft talks about seats it talks about policies and a little bit of signal routing so we needed to have something there but then as you will see in the next slides the entire idea is a point-to-multipoint three and and the bigger architectural draft is is gonna be we are hoping that is going to be worked on in this working so next slide please so here are some other relevant draft do you guys can go through it so the entire idea is T there is to architectural draft the PMS our point-to-multipoint policy which we\u0027re gonna explain here the replication segment it\u0027s a very a small subset of the point-to-multipoint policy so the point-to-multipoint policy actually covers the replication segments and and the bigger picture and then there is a yang draft which we put in the spring as of now to you I don\u0027t know whatever you need to bring that into the PM or not we can discuss that but if you look at the yang it kind of explain how their architecture is it gives you a good overview of what this whole idea is all about and then we need to have southbound and northbound I guess communication between the router and the controller and that\u0027s where the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:41",
    "text": "two last draft is there\u0027s a PCE draft that actually takes care of a Southdown and also there is acknowledgment a northbound from the node to the to the controller and then obviously the sexy one is IDR point-to-multipoint policy for pgps RTS that\u0027s another way to actually program this screen so there\u0027s two way of programming the tree depending on the operator they can either choose PCE or they can choose point to multiple and as our bgp depending on what they were so next slide so maybe we can for the sake of time go through the next few slides like you can skip the next slide and go to the one with a pretty picture usually pictures explain much much better so here\u0027s a the entire architecture of point-to-multipoint policy so on the route there is a policy that actually displays the the root node and the leaf node so you go under decree the point of multiplying policy you say what are the Leafs how you learn the Leafs it could be manually configured on the controller or you could actually have the controller listening to the NP bgp bgp multi-protocol communication that is going between the route and between the Pease and learn the Leafs weird about that communication so that\u0027s how you build your point-to-multipoint policy their route builds up the point-to-multipoint policy it uses P SEP as of now to shoot all that information to the controller so the controller then understands where the route is where the Leafs are and because it has the view of the entire network it can create a point-to-multipoint tree and download it to the routers now there are a couple of ideas here and the first one is a candidate path so these ideas are not new to this graph like a candidate pad if you look at the SR policy unicast our policy all these ideas are already there we are just using them so a candidate path within a point-to-multipoint policy simple term is LSP redundancy so under that policy could create multiple point-to-multipoint LSPs and they can be redundant based on the preference the one with the highest preference is the active point-to-multipoint tree now each one of those cat candidate pads you can optimize them globally so there is fast reroute concept here let\u0027s say one of those candidate paths because of a failure goes into a fast reroute you can optimize it globally and that\u0027s where the ins ideas come into play so each candidate pad can have two point-to-multipoint LSP instances and those are actually used for global optimization and make before break on the root note so if one of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:41",
    "text": "those instances is doing a fast reroute the controller can compute a brand-new tree with with the SLA s that are in the laser that are relevant to that multicast path and download the second instance and on the head end you can do a make before a break between one to the other now the trick is the point-to-multipoint policy doesn\u0027t have any forwarding information and that\u0027s where the replication policies come in so the replication of policy maker long is very short it\u0027s really impaired less as of now instruction incoming label outgoing labels that\u0027s it that\u0027s all there are some tricks that you got to keep in mind as an example in this diagram node a and node C are connected via node B but not being is not multicast ever it doesn\u0027t understand multicast so you can actually connect node a to node C which both have replications segments via a unique SSR so you can stack up labels if you are going to a unique ass domain but as soon as you get to a multicast domain and you need to do a multicast replication you need to have the replication policy and you need to be having an incoming label and your outgoing interfaces so this is the the very high-level idea of this draft next slide please so I put a couple of examples together just for like a case study so in this case we have a route that is on North a and we have two leaves which is T and E so what will happen is that if there\u0027s n P BGP going on between piece between a T and E a we learned that router D and router or actually beliefs it\u0027s gonna send that information to the controller the controller will create a point-to-multipoint policy with those information and it\u0027s going to note the tree ID and it multicasts tree needs to have a identifier and that identifier is a tree ID it builds a candidate that gives the preference of 1,000 as an example to the candidate path it goes to note a C D and E it creates the replication segments and all these nodes that said sorry it goes on node a C D and E because b is not multicast ver that said when it goes on note a it creates a seat list that says push B which is the unicast C and then push C which is a multicast replication C so in this case if the packet comes in on a is actually going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:41",
    "text": "to push be on top of the stack see at the bottom of the stack the packet goes to B B just does normal segment routing pops the label forwards it to C which is a replication segment and the replication segment gonna say that your outgoing interfaces are DNA and here the labels that you need to use to shoot the packet is the forwarding state with this replication sit effectively the same what I have an N LD p or rsvp-te kind of if I\u0027m using SR MPLS I got one incoming label look that up get a list of outgoing labels the other absolutely so why do we need to reinterpret this in the SR terminology so that\u0027s that was my first friend right off the bat when it comes to the data path it is the same it\u0027s just that because of the controller each router gonna have a segment and this is this is all just terminology right I mean I could simply have MPLS terminology for the same thing but what is what is Sigma routing it\u0027s MPLS so like if you look at UNICAMP nice it\u0027s have F some slightly you know more abstraction right the fact that you\u0027re heading on a per hop basis on seats that are forwarded by that are not local sit but global sits right on every forwarding hope you\u0027re changing the offset that\u0027s the key difference you\u0027re not using this year I think right so so on there is traffic engineering involved here because of the controller has the whole view of the of the network we are not in the mercy of IGP so the controller can create a tree through the network for that\u0027s for the district you can create different and slices through the network for the same point-to-multipoint policy no I understand that all I\u0027m saying is that I\u0027m not persuaded they\u0027re trying to apply the city terminology to what the forwarding plane is doing is the correct thing right it looks to me more like normal MPLS forwarding state on every hop right that that I have in ml DP rsvp-te so whereas it\u0027s as I said right ARP you know network of network wide relevance with you know per have sets that are changing so that\u0027s why I mean I think to me the use of CID is more confusing than helpful I mean sure we can definitely talk about that yeah good point I mean we can talk about if you come up with points here this is why this is a sit right I mean that would be be helpful to write down otherwise why does it do it all I\u0027m saying the the other point was a with sr v6 how does it work because I mean is this kind of prop D cap and re and cap logic we we haven\u0027t skin that cat yet you want to because I mean yes we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:41",
    "text": "definitely yeah we want to we are working on a draft for sr v6 but let\u0027s get let\u0027s get this one through first the MPLS the planing pls and then we\u0027ll get to their services but yes there is something I\u0027ve worked because I mean we do have nice address spaces where effectively this thing could simply be setting up aesthetic you know a replication tree for you know right I\u0027m saying kind of again the same thing of oh yeah everything has to be segment routing where in the end what kind of controller built you know static tree right which we\u0027ve done forever I\u0027m saying if you want to run with ipv6 right you don\u0027t and you don\u0027t need to try to kill yourself by making this look like SR v6 with D cap and rien cap you\u0027re simply having you know your encapsulation destination address in ipv6 multicast address and you\u0027re effectively setting up controller based replication state for that right so again yeah I appreciate the comment for SRB six so we wanted to make this very simple right b1 the MPLS one as one single draft because we want to pass it true you guys have been in the spring you\u0027ve seen all the conversation on a survey six right yeah so I think that\u0027s fine right III I\u0027m pointing to the fact that I think this this thing might fly it easier the more we\u0027re trying not to fiddle it through you know the needle of trying to make it look like a segments routing but just you know using controller based established MPLS forwarding or when we go to v6 you know controller based traffic engineering of existing v6 Nautica\u0027s now okay point ik nice just like okay so here\u0027s a example of global optimization so previously we had candidate Pat one and then there is a failure which was going ABC now there is a failure between B and C so the controller kind of realizes that in the draft there is a fast reroute that he can actually do a fast reroute between link protection and you can go through G to make it all the way back up to C but then the controller tries to optimize that path so it\u0027s gonna create an second instance for the same candidate path and it\u0027s gonna nail down the replication segments for that second instance throughout the network so basically what that means that is on each note C G D and E you\u0027re going to have to replication segment one for the previous primary one and one for the instance to LSB ID two throughout the network when the second instance is nailed down throughout the network you go on on a on the route and you do a make before break and you that\u0027s how you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:42",
    "text": "do global optimization on the point to multiplying Policy hidden so Nexus likely or if there\u0027s a gum so here\u0027s another example with regard to the candidate pad itself you want to have LSP redundancy you want to give different preferences so there\u0027s a candidate path with preference 1000 there is a candidate pad with preference 100 by the way that letter flashing should shouldn\u0027t be in this slide I think a copy page that mistakenly so that the first candidate path gonna go through the north direction a b c d e and you create the second candidate path that goes through the south direction a B G D and E and this is how you can have LSB redundancy throughout your entire network so this is the basic idea without going to through too much detail on the fast reroute on other stuff I think the the seat comment that was that was put under the table you know we can definitely discuss that the reason that we decided to go with replication series obviously because we had an innerspring right so so what are we trying to achieve with with this draft if you could go to the next slide please it\u0027s just just a quick comment right I mean that either you can you can do I think what is less work and in pitches up to the people who already got MPLS multicast deployed whether it\u0027s RSVP T or ml DP by naming this what I think it is which is you know controller based MPLS multicast or you\u0027re trying to you know go through more hoops and making it you know sound like SR because it\u0027s a better marketing term which i think is where this was coming from I understood I do have a question are these SIDS so because III confess I read it and I inferred from my reading and I\u0027m I probably skipped many words in the process of reading because I was an early that day like I usually am I I presumed that they were SIDS so I I thought there was it would be a sit at D and a sit at E and and so on upstream towards the root for every point in the network where some sort of multicast awareness was required and that these were indices into a table that would then give you a multi-car a label for which D for example would map and understand when it saw that label incoming and that that to me is a SID so our SIDS or not so here\u0027s the thing we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:44",
    "text": "all know when it comes to a spring and segment routing you can go on and pls back on you can start stacking up sits right what is a sit it identifies a resource within the network what are the resources right it\u0027s adjacency see and know what see and based on the label stack you can traffic engineering source route your LSP throughout the entire network with multicast you cannot grab replication seats and start stacking them up the reason for that is that when you get to a point that you have actually you\u0027re like a branching point in multicast and if you have stacked up seats then you don\u0027t know on north direction which seats are relevant on south direction which seats are relevant that\u0027s the issue with multicast that said the reason that we keep calling a CID is because this entire idea can work in a unicast it could be actually source routing source spraying so you could actually go on the head and router create a replication seat and that replication seat is actually built from unicast adjacency seats binding seats Nord seats all the way to the leaf so multi-hop unicast seats all the way to the leaf and the leaf has another replication see which just says this is multicast on the leaf that\u0027s higher so this is the entire idea that\u0027s why we call it a replication seat because it\u0027s really identifying a multicast resource a multicast seed within the network now it\u0027s how you skin the cat you could skin the cat and say that you know this is MPLS label and I\u0027m gonna add a bunch of unicast sitting on top of a tooth so a CID ultimately results in getting a label when you\u0027re using an MPLS data plane yes but the city itself isn\u0027t a label they may be identical values and then the recommendation is that they are identical values but it is a it\u0027s an index into a place where you find the MPLS label value is that true of these or not yeah this is exactly so even with these ones we actually grab so I did understand yeah yeah so it\u0027s it\u0027s it could be globally assigned it could be locally assigned because of the controller so that is exactly it has to be in done in coordination with the boxes that will process that\u0027s it so they understand what the hell it means yes exactly yeah as I said as long as we stick with MPLS the distinction of whether we calling it MPLS right or SIDS is a lot more subtle but the problem is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:44",
    "text": "as soon as we starting calling its it we\u0027re running into the likely dead end then you know we\u0027re doing something a lot more complicated with v6 right as opposed to keeping you know just as a single you know just making it native VC three established by the controller right with some you know v6 multicast destination address where every existing ipv6 multicast router could you know from the controller build an engineer tree that\u0027s basically you know if you want to have backward compatibility right for people that like to do things from the controller that is the only thing you\u0027d be able to do right now anything where you would have to do rewrites you know in SR v6 on every hop is not going to fly with any of the existing equipment let\u0027s just say I\u0027m not guessing I just go so I think here the shit is the label I don\u0027t think there\u0027s an indirection here right because you carried that shit in the packet and that\u0027s what you used to find your next application so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a difference between what you call a shit and the label so no but they\u0027re those seats are can be a sign but so I can go let me put it I think you need to unpack FRR and a bunch of other stuff rather than skipping it over to sort of get at all of this and I agree on there and and I think that it would be really good if we rather than having an oversimplified presentation spend some time thinking about this so so this was exactly the point of this present and I am absolutely agree with you it was just to bring some awareness to this so you know on the next ITF we can go in more details about fast rerun on all these other stuff so the argument for the sit if you really want to go that way right which I\u0027d prefer not to do because if I want to talk to people with the you know existing deployments with MPLS that\u0027s not only the easier solution but better marketing for me but as I said the difference between the cities when it goes across multiple Hopf and then basically every how change is the offset right so that\u0027s basically something you want to have anyhow right then that\u0027s a good argument to call it is it so that so when we started with this it was just a global seed that represents the point of multi-point three right so a single label was presenting that tree on every single router right but now that would be tree-sit more than a replication sit yes now exactly did ya need to net get new glasses I\u0027m sorry so now when it comes to the replication see each one of these router can have its own seat area if you will can have its own bucket that will choose the label from that bucket so what happened with the tree said I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t follow that so it could be either it could be the controller creates a three seat and to NH one of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:45",
    "text": "this replication policies gonna have the same label or it could be uniquely each one of this replication policy is gonna have a label or a seat that is relevant to that now no but what I\u0027m saying is that a tree sit that is consistent through the whole networking it\u0027s not going to be written on every hop it\u0027s something you can translate into SR v6 yeah but I want to keep like this this is exactly why we try to keep their service six out of this if you if if you don\u0027t want to think about the different transport options for something you call a segment routing solution you shouldn\u0027t call it a segment routing solution so then the next the next slide please so the next step is I think we had the the sip argument in in the spring too so this the next step is we are hoping that we can have a working group adaptation in came and work on this whole idea and in the pink yeah like if you guys can adopt this draft on the pink group you know I mean if there is interest why not so who\u0027s read this draft one two three four five six of those six hands who do you do you feel that this dress should be adopted one two okay just we\u0027re not raising their hand right I mean except for reading all the details but it is I really think that the draft the way you presented it still struggles off of oil defining you know where it wants to be right so I\u0027m all for having you know a controller based you know forwarding scheme for existing MPLS multicast hardware but the way that this is being done you know with calling it segment routing and you know only carrying calling it technical thing but not caring about both transport for it that that those seem to be really sure again of he scoping issues that did we should we should discuss yeah definitely we can have a I\u0027m not sure if I understand your is our v6 argument but you can have offline yeah I think that it\u0027s highly premature to ask for working group adoption I think that at some point down the road when you\u0027ve actually answered a bunch of these questions and thought about it more and maybe gotten some more participation from others to help you think about it it could work out but it\u0027s way too soon for that yeah we are completely open to the questions here I mean please send the questions to the working group man definitely have a look thank you yeah add that you know it seems to be in charter and it\u0027s okay to do the work here and we\u0027re happy to discuss it here but yeah it may be too early to actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:47",
    "text": "adopt it okay I\u0027ll go quick we have a Bobby about five ten minutes and then I cannot over committed myself so we we need to move on if you haven\u0027t signed a blue sheet please do so where\u0027s the blue sheet here anybody you need to sign it yeah okay can you get that D in that\u0027d be great okay so I presented this draft to ITF segoe so I don\u0027t need to go into too much detail but I\u0027ll quickly go through it it\u0027s basically trying to find a way to optimize asserts in the occasional situation where you could have a lot of messages a lot of certain messages on a land whether it be in an exchange or some other type of environment when you\u0027ve got a lot of asserts this is a way that you can pack asserts into a particular packet to kind of reduce the reduce the traffic on a particular line if you can go to if you can be our my slide guy so this that\u0027s the problem and just go to the next one if you would just keep going alright so there\u0027s no change in the assert state machine we do develop a new pinhole option for assert packing and we have two different ways if we decide that this is something that we want to do as a working group we have a simple packing solution in a more involved packing solution next slide so this is the PIM hello option to determine whether this is a something that these the routers on a land can do next slide so if you\u0027re announced that you support the a the aggregates packing then it\u0027s a student you also support a simple one yes the the one is a simple a packing type in the two is a grading Pepe so to support both do some to hello I\u0027m ever you ask this question or and I don\u0027t remember we I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve I think we\u0027ve answered that one thing I would sent a good question so just this maybe you say if you support yeah aggregate them it\u0027s assumed that you okay so that\u0027s a good point won\u0027t add to the draft if we pursue it thank you so this is a simple way to go about doing it you just take that existing assert and put it into an assert record and add it several of these asserts records into one particular packet need there\u0027s advantages in that it reduces the packets on the land but there\u0027s disadvantages because the disadvantage is that you\u0027re you you have you you\u0027re wasting the payload because many of the packets have the same sourcing group next slide and this is the packet format next slide I just yeah this is the more involved aggregating packet solution where you are aggregating based upon the source address of the Arpi address or the group address and so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:47",
    "text": "you\u0027re not you say you\u0027re more efficient in the packing method but it\u0027s a little bit more involved adds complexity next slide and this is the packet format yeah that\u0027s fine this is good out there just for the sake of time yeah so people can look at that later so there was a lot of discussion last time I presented this on whether this is something that\u0027s worth doing to assert should we pursue it or just leave asserts alone do we if we do want to pursue it so we replace asserts some people mention that you really just don\u0027t do asserts and just live with duplicates and this draft is saying well there\u0027s one option is to optimize asserts and so there was some people who mentioned that it would be you know this could be a good idea there\u0027s many people that said this is probably not something that\u0027s worth doing and so we thought we\u0027d just bring it to the working group again since it\u0027s been a couple working groups and to see if the attitudes changed at all if there is interest in in working on this if so then we will continue to work on it any comments yes I have a couple of comments just as a working with participants yes so sure it could be nice to get completely but I think we have to live with asserts in my scenarios or less forever so I think it\u0027s I think it\u0027s worth optimizing asserts if you can\u0027t get waited on grades but but if he counts them but it\u0027s better to optimize it i I know law so well actual issues out there in the field where there\u0027s issues with a cert packets getting dropped and stuff because there\u0027s just too many asserts and if you drop on a Start packet bad things happen like duplication and stuff so I think this is worth doing I mainly have two comments one is a lot convinced that the more advanced packing is necessary you still have a huge benefits just with us simple packing I mean if you send the 1500 byte packet you will be able to learn what\u0027s the math you can put quite a few a search until one packet if you do jumbo grants you can get a lot more the only thing is I don\u0027t understand in your advanced format while you have an RP address there because you don\u0027t tell an RP address in the starts today sourcing groups yeah you want just source of the serie with it\u0027s like an start G assert I think that\u0027s true so G right that wouldn\u0027t be needed you\u0027re right I mean in the way logical it makes sense because all all the eskimo G\u0027s in the message are for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:47",
    "text": "same RP but I don\u0027t think you actually need RP address okay okay well we\u0027ll consider whether we even include the more advanced in the draft anyway maybe take your advice to only focus on simple I mean in a way it makes total sense because you have all these metrics the same metrics file off to ask emoji often but on the other hand here maybe it\u0027s not worth the complexity okay so won\u0027t need a Tatarstan list but can you ask the working group all right so who wrote this draft okay two people three three people might wait okay three people no does that well it\u0027s who thinks it\u0027s useful or actually I should say who should thinks it should be adopted okay including myself I think there\u0027s three people that read it and two people wants to be adopted I [Music] think we can take it to the list if you\u0027ve been presenting this a couple of times now and there is something some interest it\u0027s okay very good thank you I think we\u0027re done yeah all right thanks everyone thanks for coming and I\u0027m Bondi by the way is in this room just after this so please don\u0027t leave the room and body you\u0027re permitted to leave but please come back there is some coffee or something laughter I mean I feel like it makes sense maybe say certain qualities are you so lucky never certain scenarios but what the actual you know [Music] "
  }
]