[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "foreign welcome to the thank you think research group work meeting today we are going to have a one-hour meeting so I'm going to go through the preliminaries uh quickly so we can go in into the content of the meeting um Ari is still stuck in a family of event and it probably will join us in a few minutes if you wonder where he is um so this is uh an irtf meeting so the irtf node well applies and the short form of it is uh you maybe record it or you will be recorded actually uh we are all trying to be nice to each other and and professional whatever that word means and their IPR guidelines uh really which are about patent claims and you can uh read them on the um website pointer to here and there are also official uh slides that point to more detailed ways of of doing things so how you actually reach someone to help you if if their chairs are not helping you and and you believe to be harassed and so on um the IPR rules are mainly meant to avoid submarine patterns influencing the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "standardization process but they do apply to the irtf as well and you should be um you should know about these things and in particular if you know about the pattern that applies to some technology uh you should tell us about it or you must uh not talk about it okay so that's my summary I'm not a lawyer please read the the actual documents so just a quick reminder this is not a standards development meeting this is a research group uh meeting the the point of the research group is to have a longer term view on the issues which which in the end of course do impact on on standardization but we are not doing standards here and um there are a number of media that are helping us doing this thing in particular there is a note-taking uh site where we can do shared note-taking and I see that that Marco has already started doing that and it would be good if he got some some additional support from people who are interested in the subject um the Gemma is gone we know using zulip but you also can get at the chat from the media go um buttons we have a mailing list if you are not subscribed to please do so and um documents about this will apart from the the normal irtf proceedings mechanism uh be collected in a GitHub repository so I'm not going to do these slides here in detail they are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "just in the slide deck for reference you can get at the slide deck at the link where that I sent around an hour ago on the mailing list and the same is true about the the interesting relationship that this research group has with various iitf uh groups that are kind of the the both the parents and the children of activities that have happened in the uh wizard hoop assembly are simply related to it okay so today's meeting is is a short one hour work meeting and we want to focus on the subject of security we have three active research group drafts on security issues which we are discussing today and we also have one potential field of new work where I want to gauge what the the level of interest uh in this group is whether people would be interested in uh contributing to to some additional work so the the resulting agenda has John starting in minus 13 seconds on amplification attacks uh mood and then about the terminology and processes for initial security setup and Michael on the taxonomy for for keys for manufacturer install keys and Trust anchors we don't really have the time to do all four items in 15 minutes so we will compress the the discovery discussion at the end if we need uh more time so Michael you don't have to to feel like you you must say within five minutes but of course I would appreciate if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "don't need 25. um any comments on the agenda any thing we should also cover today I'm not hearing anything um so um I think I'll share John's slides thank you also have slides control yeah I do yeah so this is about the amplification attack droughts I think it has been updated three versions since it was presented in thing to think orgy last it has also been adopted by the working group research group since then most of the changes are based on comments from aching Krauss and discussing with Sultan uh one thing that has been done is that at the Gateway and text about gateways for all the multicast figures gateways are discussed a lot in group communication and they they explain why you can do amplification attacks over multicast uh then observers made a separate figure based on a comment from Achim uh at the text as the the draft does not suggest that Co-op is more vulnerable to amplification and text than other protocols maybe it is maybe it isn't but uh we we don't state that some readers got that impression before even if that was not stated I added that post Focus post and put is only possible if supported and same same with conditional attributes typically these things are maybe not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "supported remove the whole section about actual amplification attacks there was a lot of discussion seems like there happened actual amplification attacks using Cooper but all the description of these attacks are so bad so you cannot really do any conclusion what actually happened or maybe even if it happened done a lot of clarification in the figures with client was changed to victim and server to servers and we made SVT out of everything here's an example of the new figures where it used to be a client it used to be single server it used to be no Gateway and after discussion with Sultan that didn't understand the attacks I think this is now and him complaining that this attack was not realistic I think the name changes here and the addition of the Gateway makes everything much clearer how they attack is actually dumb I think there's basically no changes to the text I think it's time to discuss what we I think the draft is in a quite good state right now we are fixed we've got quite a lot of detailed comments by people that actually had read the roof dropped in detail and we have addressed them um there's two remaining comments from Achim about men in the middle attack I think they're quite straightforward to fix uh but um I think the big question is what does the working group want this draft to include before it's published I hope we will publish it at some point I think these are the four points that was discussed in an earlier session I think the draft does already now raise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "awareness it has some mitigation that in common that the mitigation sections are quite slim I agree there should be more mitigation sec sections to a reasonable level we have removed concrete information and I don't there's not been any interest to add any other types of denial of service attacks my my suggestion is that we are done with describing different attacks now we should add recommended enthusiastic mitigations for for the already described attacks and after that my view would be that the draft is is ready for publishing um comments custom yeah I have a quick question um when you say describe mitigations um of course there are documents out there that already do that so is that really about describing them or pointing to the right documents what what is what is the the relative weight of these two aspects yeah I I think that maybe needs some analyze some trying to write I I guess first point is to point to existing and then maybe in some some cases these mitigations are too soft so maybe the draft should recommend to break have a bit stricter things or maybe in some cases there are no descriptions and then the draft might have to describe new things but I think when I started this draft was very there was not so much written about multicast now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "the the new drops have added a lot more um I think there's still no recommendations in for example conditional attributes so I think referring to all the current and then see if that is enough and where there is new things more things that can be done but yeah I mean that's an activity yeah I'm asking because there is a danger that uh um we are we are writing in BCP here and that that is not the uh intention of a research group the document so we we should document the state of the art and of course the state of the art includes specifications that are already out there and considerations for for potential uh future specifications but I don't think we should be recommending stricter limits for something we we might very well uh note that that stricter limits might have more um but um I think we if there is work that needs to be done in the ietf we should identify that and and see to it that this work is actually started yeah um there will not be any the plan is not to have any any RFC 2116 language in this draft and then I think let's identify all the all the different mitigate sort of mitigation first and then we can discuss how we want to describe that I think but uh in general I I agree with you here [Music] my goat um yeah so I think the document is um I guess I thought it seems shorter than I thought it might be but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um one question is whether or not you basically concluded there are no amplification attacks involving uh the various block mode transfers at this point no we don't know if that has been considered I think everything we have it's more like you find some attack vector and then you add it to the document but I cannot be sure that we have found everything if you I I can I don't know I can't I can't think of any um because the both participants have to to uh be involved in in doing the bigger transfer so I think it's not the case but I guess that would be good to know um and I guess the other concern I have um is uh um I guess I wouldn't mind if the terminology the names of them were a little bit more unique as opposed to application application application using using something so I don't know that's just useful I think that's the utility um of having this is that we now now have a common understanding of the different kinds of attacks and we can talk about um in uh when someone's using Co-op they can talk about oh and this isn't a problem this kind of attack isn't a problem or whatever um I I'm open for suggestion if you have some good names suggestion feel free to contribute okay and we are here are so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "initial high level CS string is to have some general mitigations assumption then you probably you might need to separate the direct mitigations in whether when you use a security protocol and when you're not using uh security protocol and when you have identified verified the address of the destination and when you have not and then here is just very high level sum of the mitigations that have been discussed in this draft and in other drafts I think the plan is to add some more information about this mitigation maybe some analysis how effective or not effective they are and if there's any loopholes um uh can you hear me yes okay uh I find this document useful I also found this document that you have in in the core working group um the the this actuator attacks that that you have maybe I had been using that document quite a lot for for describing some of these attacks against actuators I wonder um is there like some um consideration about this resource directory where like the responses might be much larger let's say if you do some some Rd lookup or observe things in RDS there's some special considerations that apply to those kind of scenarios that is worth covering in this in this amplification attacks document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "I I don't know but I think that might be good to in investigate [Music] um um I would you would it be possible for you to open an issue and describe a little bit high level how you are how you what you're thinking yes why this might be a problem and then we could then I can help analyze and see if we can find some something specific for for that scenario that should be described yep sounds good good um we have two new things that should be investigated whether they have should be described attacks and I think we have seems to be consensus rough consensus on the way forward good so we we have several items that we can pick up after this meeting I'll talk about Discovery a little bit at the end and More's comment is definitely of interest in that context um as well so um I think we are done with this item thanks John and we can move to uh initial security setup mode I think you are presenting this so I pass you the control so you should have control yes yes I I do have so um yeah good to join join"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "some of your virtually after uh let's say short Gap so this is uh work done together with Gadget and and Dan who is also on the call this draft has existed for a while and there's been let's say some some lack of also action from the authors for various reasons that have been busy but at least now now some of us have have time to do hopefully finish off the draft so quickly to to kind of summarize what has changed since the last time this was presented in t2trg by then uh actually nothing much except maybe the the title of the document itself so at some point we changed um the let's head title from secure bootstrapping survey to a survey of initial security setup techniques for iot devices but we never really changed the document name to match the title and I guess that was raised as as feedback um during the last presentation so now now that is done also we received some off list feedback from Jaime on on specifically about Oma we haven't addressed this but but we do plan to address it in in the next version when we submit the draft so in case there's someone who doesn't know what this draft is about a very quick recap so basically this draft is trying to capture different terminologies that are used in in protocols for doing this initial security setup of iot devices and then see if there is some common patterns in in terms of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "terminology used what are the processes um and and what are the initial assumptions before you can do this initial security setup and what happens after the process is complete uh we use some illustrative examples of both High ETF and non-iitf protocols um in the draft so this is basically the list of terminology that we found um in different protocols that have been standardized for doing the initial security setup of devices and when when we try to break this down we we try to break this down so that each protocol we can list The Players the beliefs before the protocol and and what happens once the protocol run is is complete and also identify the processes for each of these standard protocols um I have example of Omar then and have some questions for you in the audience on how exactly to structure this because it's actually a little bit challenging when reading the different protocols how what exactly are the players and and processes but the the protocols that we have reviewed so far are listed on on this slide I don't think we have received any requests for adding new ones or or removing um once from this list but if you have feedback on that that's always welcome if if you think we can remove some of them because they are not maybe relevant that's all right if you think we should add um obviously we can add some some other protocols which we might have missed but as uh mentioned this is not supposed to be an exhaustive list it's more supposed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "to be diverse enough to to cover as many different types of protocols or at least a representative of of different types of protocols but not be an exhaustive list so if you have any feedback on whether there should be some added or some removed then that's always welcome um and um yeah I think we already mentioned that we try to then compare protocols based on what terminology players processes they have um and I guess the document is is not complete we obviously have lots to improve we we also look forward to you know your reviews and feedback but let's say we would like the next version of the document to be a little bit major revision to um at least to get in the direction where we feel it's starting to go to look finalized it's it's not not there yet uh but before we do this major revision I thought it was good to take some feedback from the research group on how what exactly is is useful um and and we would like to make the current document much better than than it is currently uh so let's look at an example and and um this is from the section on Oma in the draft um what I and maybe also my co-authors have felt that often it is easier to identify what are the initial beliefs and then what happens after the protocol run is is complete um not always so sometimes there are protocols that support both when there is some Factory provision credentials um and and some protocols that that work in both scenarios when the device is completely blank and when there is some credential so DPP would be one example which supports both so so you can have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "DPP running on on a device that can support some kind of UI which is completely blank but then if it's a thermostat uh which doesn't have any UI then it can come provision with some keys um so there's always this challenge that protocols have variance and and trying to cover all the different variations becomes challenging but still from a beliefs point of view it is relatively easy to distinguish protocols that assume whether something is initially provisioned or or not and what happens when the protocol is is finished what becomes more complicated is the terminology because um let's say there is no golden standard and and commonality on how these different standards use these these terms so currently in the draft we we list bootstrapping provisioning initialization configuration and registry but this is basically a dumb grip of the standard for these terms and then if the standard has used that term then it's in this list I'm not sure if this is the best approach so um I I noticed that the standard also or actually Jaime pointed out that the standard also uses the term Discovery so we we will add it to the list but I'm not sure if just doing a grep of the standard document for these terms and if they exist just listing them makes sense because in in this case of oma there there was like just one reference to initial initialization um which was basically like making the device kind of blank or zeroing would would also be an alternative term for this I felt that maybe it would be better to just focus on on the real terminology that is used for setting up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "the device so um in in this case of omits oma uses the term bootstrapping um then you discover what objects can be provisioned and and you write to those objects or your provision to those objects so um it's a question for the research group whether it would make sense to to not just blindly grab the standards for this terminology and only list the one where they actually make sense so in in that case we would remove initialization from from Oma as an example also um yeah please Carson I think you can already go ahead yeah so what what I would want from this document of course is not just saying whether these terms are used but in particular with which meaning they are being used so um we may need to Define our own terms or at least a reference framework so we can say how things like like provisioning initialization and so on um are being used and the problem of course is that that terms like initialization also have a general computer science or even English sense and it's sometimes necessary to find out which of the the meanings is actually used so same thing for configuration for instance while provisioning is often a very specific item that that we can find out how the document is using that so this would be a little bit of a dictionaries I think that that we would be doing here okay um so I understand that for each of these standards we should list the the terms and then in what context or what is the meaning what are they trying to imply with with the usage of that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "terminology um sure I think it will just make it a little bit longer but hopefully more useful document I think that makes sense the same let's say challenge I I noticed was with the processes section so I mean there is obviously some benefit of explaining how each protocol works and is that what we want from the processes or should we only focus on what are the processes expected from let's say an end user or a network administrator does the protocol require you to you know have some server running in the cloud from a service provider um or or do you do you think it would actually make sense to have like a detailed explanation of how each um protocol actually works so how how does Oma work in my opinion is is less useful I would rather find it more useful to to explain what is expected from the user and there again it's not clear in the standard what is expected from the user but I guess uh or or the owner I would think it's more like they need to configure the location of their lightweight M2M server on the bootstrap server and maybe at the end of the process verify that the device actually shows up on on the server but these are not then explicitly listed in in the standard as as processes and and finally then these players I think again this was a little bit um it's a confusion um added by the authors who are the players I I would say like uh like a client or a device or a server is not necessarily a player uh I would think that it would be easier to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "distinguish protocols based on whether they require some involvement from the manufacturer or not and whether they require like some kind of a server uh or a service provider running a server or or the user running a server but but certainly not listing like every every player mentioned in in the standard uh so we would try to trim down the the list unless the research group thinks otherwise so if there is some feedback yeah please Carson yeah I think processors players and beliefs are really the the triangle that needs to be discussed together um so the the point about a player is well there's another word that we are often using which is party which is related to player but a party may be actually comprised of multiple players which have different states they are going through uh while together being that that party so who controls something is is one aspect of of party but also the connect collected knowledge of of the players in in the party and I think the the interesting thing here about the players is not so much what are the detailed uh processes um and and how how does the document with a relatively complicated uh set of players actually um uh Define the the individual processes but the point is that uh before something uh the the device or the application uh can can do something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "useful um certain beliefs need to be created instilled and these beliefs are in specific players so it's not not useful to have a belief that that is freestatting the specific device must know the key or the manufacturer must provide the key or and so on so I think that's where the the terms players and processes and and beliefs are are really um interesting should we have like then also parties as a group of players yes we could I'm I'm not sure how useful this is um in in the end um a specific protocol really runs between players but it's of course um the the the sense the the reason this protocol this process is there um is to uh get each party uh the the um assurances that the party needs uh so the the party always is the the uh interesting uh thing in the background uh but the the other interesting thing about the security protocol is that a specific player may not necessarily properly represent its party um so if you have a rogue uh player a player that goes Rogue uh that is going to to uh compromise the the security objectives of the party so the party has security objectives and the party controlled certain devices certain players uh which uh hopefully"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "are working together to to realize those security objectives uh so in case of oma what would be like I at least I listed these as the players but Maybe um I don't know we probably are running out of time so um we can also continue the discussion on on the mailing list but I think having like example for one specific protocol would then help make it easier for for other protocols yeah I think it's a good idea to to do this for um a because it's sufficiently complex that the interesting questions will come up and it's relatively stable and people understand it so um I think that that would be a good exercise and maybe we should actually find an hour somewhere where we do that okay um I won't take much more time so um well I think this research group has experts on different protocols that we are trying to to cover so if you want to help us um identify these players processes um parties beliefs for any of them we we look forward to comments whether it's on on the mailing list or or pull request I mean we we understand that there is work to be to be done for for the draft so hopefully we'll have a major revision before the next meeting yeah that that's it okay so if there are no other questions how do I share the next slides uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "this is weird okay so you should have control now control now okay so uh not brief even briefer history of this draft last time in a longer history uh we did this in 2020 it has found the location it was adopted by this research group in January uh next steps are a bit unclear and then profit non-goals of this Josh are not trying to establish a new evaluation criteria but rather to just provide terminology for what things you might want to talk about and what you might want to evaluate and what those numbers um might describe without actually saying what actually the best number is so that's up to you to to do your own risk assessment or whatever um and part of this is to to in to make it clear is that if someone is happy with the Cheetos keeping their their uh storage uh unit closed because that's all the security they require then they should be able to express that fact that that's the level of security they have and that's okay um and but on the other hand if you want something stronger then you should be able to express that and we should be able to talk about in a reasonable term and reasonable words as to what it is that you're actually doing foreign so uh some changes some interesting things that have come forward um there is a requirement from last year from the the certification Authority and browser Forum known as the cab Forum um not always with the slash in it um and they basically are a group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "um that allows the cas and the browsers to decide basically what trust anchors wind up in your browser and they're for which uh certification authorities uh can do what so they've decided that I think in in as a result of the um um oh I forgot the company's name now um they're near me even um their big thing where they had uh Trojans being shipped out to the field that were built on their build servers um that from now on um code signing Keys should be not kept in you know online or should be in an HSM and so the idea is that in order for the cas to be sure of this they need some kind of remote attestation from the HSM as to the Keys Providence um it has to go into the CSR and this is happening in the lamps working group right now about what exactly will happen and there's a June 1st deadline for some of this what is the overall effect of this is that we had in this document a bunch of uh questions as to for instance how is the key generated with you know a couple of internal you know uh views so that's kind of now I'm going to expand it out into uh some of the terminology that the uh the design team in lamps has has discussed and they're going to figure out how to encode this into a attestation um but I think that these are uh probably pretty good uh set of terminology and what's also interesting is that it's also come up with there's also a second set of terminology as for instance whether or not the key can be extracted out of the device by the user or it's extractable in an encrypted form that you can restore to the device later on or can be uh extracted and restored into a similar HSM but not by the user"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "and there's a bunch of different possibilities so that's something that I'm going to expand in this document try to get that terminology correct and get some review from some other people there uh the next steps is more bike shedding it's not a taxonomy document I think unless we actually do argue about the terms so it's appropriate um and I think we should finish and get into uh whatever the last call process in the research group is um sometime in September and be done by the end of the year that's about it go ahead just speak up yes uh Michael I am confused um because um the the document talks about these keys private Keys trust anchors for devices but then there is also in your presentation mention about um this CA forum so so let me explain let me explain then Mohit so if you're going to put a public key into a device such as for instance is going to decide what software can be applied to that device or um what um uh kind of things and somewheres you need to keep the private key part of that uh somewhere safe right yes I actually I'm very much involved in this process so I can at least tell from yeah one example where we keep the private key in a cloud HSM and then public key in a read-only file system to verify software right so if you're going to put a trust anchor into the device then you have to also know something about how does the management of the private key work out so that's why that's the relationship"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "and the useful thing is the set of terminology that those that that attestation has to go with so let's have some common terminology uh between this and the other uh the other areas where the it's the terminology is being used but I think in the devices the keys are generally burned into like fuses uh there's like yeah I don't know maybe that is one method that's one method of about six so you just obstruction of the draft should I look at for well that would be a device generated key now if you generate it in the device and store it in a puff based on the puff that may actually be a symmetric key uh based uh thing depends on how you use the the you said puff so that typically means that you have some symmetric key that comes out of the air but that means that the key is generated in the device okay I think uh I I was talking about something else but at least I've seen the draft there is this software update trust anchor so what I was you know look for device generated Keys that's I think sexual like what I am doing the key is not generated on the device it's only the public part of the case burnt into the device to verify the software update when it comes that's fine then you have a trust anchor so that's a different section right but then you have the generation of the keys so that would be um uh uh um sorry that is uh um 4.1.2 section so that's about key generation process"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "so that's one of the things that we want to have it's a taxonomy of of the key so if you're going to generate the idev ID you need the corresponding private key where do you put that how do you generate it was it generated in the factory or was it generated on the device or was it generated for symmetric key um and then you could have the question is can I extract that and restore it to a new device that's the new part uh I I think I have had some comments on on the list but all right that would be great thank you I'm done Carson yes so thank you for for this presentation and for giving us a timeline I think this is a useful document because it gets some communication going there that wouldn't happen uh otherwise so I think this is a valuable result and um yeah we we need to uh look at the the definitions of the terms and find out whether they are useful in our respective uh corners of the world and then come into that so I think we're done with that item and the final technical item on the agenda is the [Music] discovery security so people have been uh pointing to to various terms that are not very well defined Discovery Access Control secure Discovery privacy preserving discovery"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "um and so on and I think it would be a good idea for us to to actually look at specifically Discovery security and and those other aspects in on the title slide um because Discovery is important for for iot we want to automate our setup processes as much as possible both because of limited user interfaces in the devices and because we have so many of these devices that we can't attend to each of one like like to a pet and we also have different kinds of Discovery and I I listed two year one is network discovery and the other one is resource Discovery and they come together in various models or separate in other models and of course how this is structured influences what we can do on the security um site so the the first interesting question is what are our objectives here so the the objective of Discovery is of course that that um players can find other players and uh they can start building uh systems understanding what those other players are um and so so you have to find uh things or services and you have to learn enough of them to do something useful once you have found them and the the objective of course includes security objectives and and using the usual CIA grouping of security objectives um we have confidentiality which is uh adversity cannot learn things that shouldn't learn integrity and adversity adversary cannot inject information or smooth information um that that what could be used to violate other security objectives and finally availability so there there is no way for an adversary to disrupt functioning and we can look into a little bit more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "detail here so why do we need confidentiality um well first of all we have privacy requirements so that there are lots of examples where people point out that that finding out what devices are somewhere already violates uh privacy so if I'm doing a job interview and I have a way to find out whether there is an insulin pump in the room I might be able to find something about some health information about the applicant that I'm not entitled to receive or some some um thugs could work around neighborhood and and scan for expensive gadgets using Discovery mechanisms uh to to find a house that is worth to break in and steal things from uh so the the the the the Privacy requirements may maybe um uh somewhat surprising don't do not necessarily come directly from um the the function of the devices and even the simple use of stable identifiers creates linkability issues with which is being worked on and we have a whole working robot in us to actually handle the the uh fallout of of this um upgrade so that that's one aspect privacy um and of course privacy is not just personal privacy it's also privacy of business information that has similar uh properties but also we want to avoid disclosing things that would increase the attack surface like the the exact version of software that runs uh on a device should not necessarily be available to everyone it should certainly be available to the manager of the network but not necessarily to to somebody to render randomly is in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "vicinity so in the past um in the past we have often just Fallen back to network security or subnetwork security just assuming that our Discovery is secure because we we can can confine it into this space and that of course becomes difficult in an IP environment for resource Discovery and we talked about resource directory just just a few minutes ago um it's pretty clear that we want to have a view approach so authorized users see more information but of course that means that you have to to classify the information into these different classes and specify authorization for the information and to have authorization you need authentication and how does the authentication work in a state where you are still discovering who the other guy is so that that's interesting and very similar considerations come up with Integrity so Integrity is is of course always very important but here in this context the attack would be to to inject us both information that that either the USS the discovery um or confuses players enough that they think they have a valid peer to to talk to and again we have been using subnetwork security and um again we have this authentication authorization uh issue how do you operate with partial information um because you you are still discovering whether you actually want to talk to the that other guy so why should you give up all your authentication information in in this process and finally availability"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "the completeness of Discovery is something that an attacker might try to work again in particular if that is using multicast but you could also try to abuse Discovery capability for dos so again resource use should require authorization and we run into the same questions who is authorized to do something and and how did the authentication that is underlying that authorization actually work so in summary um there is a strong a reason to view Discovery security among other things as an authorization problem and uh we should be more specific in what authentication methods and authorization models can be used in a discovery phase I think we have a pretty good understanding how to do this with the resource directory but there are lots of other places uh where where this comes up and in particular when you are still in the process of choosing the right Network the the Christmas problem everybody unpacks their their iot gadgets they got for Christmas and of course they all log into the neighbor's Network and do weird things there um so that that's one aspect and um that that requires thinking about partial authentication partial authorization and one thing that we have already discussed in vishi in 2017 is that it would be nice to have secret handshakes which are mutual authentication procedures that that actually complete before anything is this close to a non-authorized party and that seems to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "be a critical building block to to get secure Discovery going so the point of this talk was to to raise uh questions and what I would like to find out is are these interesting problems are these important problems uh we should be solving or we should try to get researchers to solve or we should simply try to document the state of the art and and potential gaps and if we think so who would be interested in in doing something about this should we try to write some of this up and yeah if yes um maybe you should allocate time for a meeting of interested people so we have a couple more minutes to get input from the group about my questions okay so nobody cares about discovering yeah foreign tication was a bit like if you don't know you authenticate to why why does it matter um except if you want to conceive to others of course but I have a question first question is we have the resource discovered the core resource Discovery RFC and I suppose some of these things are are considered in that and when it comes to Discovery how does this position itself to that I mean of course it's not specifically for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "the resource directory but isn't isn't the same type of security problems that should have been answered in that RC yeah I think we can learn something how from how this has been done in the resource directory but the resource directory also has the the advantage that uh by the time you are using it you are already authenticated to the network and uh you you might be in a position to authenticate to the resource directory um so it's already an advanced phase of Discovery so the the the approaches in that document do not necessarily transfer to early discovery um and early Discovery the the part that would actually benefit from a secret handshake um that that definitely cannot uh expect that um authentication already has been done at the time when the test decided whether to disclose some information or not so we're saying that you have Network you have authenticated to the network when you before you do resource Discovery but you have not authenticated to the Discovery mechanisms so so what is the difference well if you have if you don't have a way to authenticate to the resource directory it is going to give you only limited information and that is an authorization model that I think is reasonably well understood uh less understood less well understood is whether that information is enough to actually get you going into a state where you actually can can authenticate to the resource directory thank you like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "um so this is all very interesting and I I I I I would love to have more conversations about it but I don't know what we do with it um and I guess I'll say that um like I don't know I don't know in the end I don't know what the body of work that you're proposing is if it's more than just talking about naming and discussing the or writing down the attacks um but I guess I'll say that Christian redema tried to do the secret handshake um you know I can't tell you whether I exist until I know whether or not you're supposed to exist in dnsse what it was about eight years ago maybe 2015 or something um I think it was and I was sad that it the work didn't go anywhere partly because I don't think anyone was quite ready for the for the concept we just don't have broadly interoperable iot networks yet such that I really could wander down the street and learn whether or not there are insulin pumps to steal or not um it's just not interoperable enough at this point that's our current security level of security it doesn't work right so I think it's really important that we get here but I don't know if the world's ready for this uh yet yes I mean that's why this is good stuff for research group and and not sure um trying to standardize anything but um what you describe is pretty much the main reason why it's so hard to do security uh because um the the best way to avoid a security problem is to make the the systems not work if they don't work you have a don't have a security problem and our interest of course should be to find ways to to make things work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "but if we run into problems like like this one as soon as we make things work that that will make it hard to make things work so I think it's good to think about them a little bit ahead of the Curve Milan we can't hear you can you hear me yes I have unmuted I think anyway so my answer to the question is this interesting yes it is and it would help I think even before you write up or as you are writing up to to identify a bit of the scope basically who can discover a subject you know to security constraints and which constraints do you want to put in place and how much can be discovered that I guess also would be graduated based on on the level of trust between the two parties but the related question a similar problem exists in the Bluetooth networks and somehow it seems to work with the discovery and pairing if so desired how would this be different in terms of what it does and how it operates but one one interesting thing about Bluetooth networks is that that the various products that are out there um usually need a manual step to actually set up some initial security and the the cases where that is not the case Discovery is really awful so I have to be really careful in my apartment not to send music to the the TV of the guy living upstairs to me it's really hard to avoid because my systems discover that thing and and start sending audio to it yeah so I hope"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "that's not the Bluetooth mechanism you were referring to well I don't know I was referring to both of uh connecting my own devices to stuff that work here so that I can see some neighbors devices which can be used for entertainment if you want to block some annoying music to them but in general it seems to work obviously the devices that are in proximity of each other which may or may not depends on how you define it the case for what you are doing but it definitely works for my stuff I just haven't paid attention how much it extends beyond that and exposes other devices in my devices to other parties that I haven't researched in detail so I cannot I don't have a feel for it yeah so if we find that Bluetooth has solved this problem for us then we should write this up and explain how to transfer this this knowledge to our place but I think the the manual step is a significant difference between how I think Discovery should work in the iot space um so I think that that is at least one one aspect that is going to be different yeah you're right it requires it requires user interaction with at least one of the systems yes okay thank you Marco yes hi uh I think it's an interesting topic and I confess I'm not just by the model considered in the resource directory uh I tend to forget about any early Discovery issues uh but like Milan said I think we should first understand the scope better and maybe a first starting point can be defining a taxonomy of trust models for the early Discovery phase and like kickstarting that can be a topic for a follow-up meeting for example sounds good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "thanks do you have any any uh document or Source you would point to on this actually no it'll be an opportunity for me to understand even better some of the building blocks you mentioned in the previous slides okay so let's let's take that to the list but if I'll find any uh I'll tell you of course great thank you thanks yeah we have six minutes over time um so um I think we are done with a uh queue and I think it's very good feedback that we have to think about scope I deliberately presented this as a very wide open thing but of course we we have to focus and um I think that that's one of the things we should do in that uh uh list discussion and maybe first meeting so thank you for your input and I think we are pretty much done with the agenda uh let's oops go to the agenda yeah we are done um so I expect we will have further Point meetings work meetings um in in the next few months maybe at the Cadence of about one uh per month so if you are interested in having a meeting like today uh on a specific topic or set of topics please talk to the Jazz and apart from that uh thank you for joining this meeting and see you on Meet echo or physically as an IDF uh later this year thank you thank you bye-bye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:11",
    "text": "foreign"
  }
]
