[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "well hopefully nobody has wonderful animations or other yes my sites are all boring I don\u0027t know how to make it Oh screw here no yeah what now what\u0027s the issue make it fullscreen oh no I think this is as good as well there was a some function he F whatever some function may implode sorry for the noise okay animals in full tenon actually so this is money and we have him for tours this is animal working group are trying to networking integrated model and approach so if you\u0027re having in wrong room still have time to run for your right room let\u0027s say not well everybody should already read it if you don\u0027t please to so cruciate is ski around you to make sure you\u0027re signed before you leave the room and with it minutes taker and invite here for me to take her once big thanks I get this is support full remote participation and also lights already uploaded on the website with murderers from idea and meninist as euros it should be the first working place so everybody should have the you know invokes it is cussing and here and take participant for many knees to discussing normally we gives the Ferrari for those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "tropicals already have discussed many mists during the ITF meeting cycles this working group is cultured by Michigan and Telus Eckhart and you can find all the information on the head tracker this is the meeting agenda we have very fun a tinder for today first the working group document we have three working group document need update a trauma control plan bootstrap remote security infrastructure and constraint vulture artifacts for put starting protocols each of them have ten minutes but since the hour they are working group document they have priority over the other presentations so they could may take more time if that\u0027s needed mmm then we have the our potential new charter inscribing so it\u0027s discussing what we are going to do for next stage some proposed text will be explained by tariffs and then we have this non working group work items first information distribution in a container to networking then that\u0027s the TSST comfortable service discovery grasp accurate that can buy with the number line out configuration of nork service is AP networks wide grasp so thanks terrace to make me confuse he applied for two slots but he decided to combine them together and you know the one slice so I guess you have ten minutes for that two numbers X that\u0027s the just the networking and procedures for unknown networking press key enzo for smart pledges and the last questions join perfect profits for constructing protocols and hopefully we have enough time to just finish all those agenda on him and he at in the posh wise price go they were very short brief for the working group stators we have to RFC as published eunice money so that\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "voter and the stable connectivities and when actually has three document no full documents missing wife they\u0027re actually they already passed the publishing procedure for a long time last year that\u0027s across and also the profits of the management and the they will be published out of there as well as their dependents a document get published and and the autonomic control plan is already submitted for publication and it\u0027s under the ISD investigation is they in the ad follow cellular aging and as we discussed to resolve and the reference model has been submitted to a city in this way it\u0027s the reverse ITV did situation and already has enough possessions to pass the ISDN variation and we have one more risky actually submitted to ISD for vacation in August and still waiting for a deal at have some work for you and we have to draft in the working group stage grasp API atop the December last year it\u0027s in version two at this moment and the constrain water atop team a at will make updates in the sweetie alright that\u0027s it so donors would you like to discuss special those free documents in more detail right now or will that be a slot later I mean we have Brisky in update today we also have the constraint virtual updated tapes so if that\u0027s for us to you can save it for later otherwise so from my side it\u0027s about ACP one it has two serious discusses and what are your plans of of progressing with that after the next presentation use for ahead of you okay brueski also I would assume it will be dedicated as yeah we have that update presentation so next will be ACP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "yeah oh yes the screen here is not hung the speaker screen shows black font on black background so let me see if I can get started yeah that\u0027s great maybe this yeah oh I can choose between Netflix YouTube okay so I wanted to give updates in Scythia 102 that was 16 now we\u0027re 1718 so the incorporated feedback is from Alicia Elron for general Frank chilling from sector and ethics from Pascal and I\u0027m going to talk about the backlog at the end of the presentation so the main changes from 16 to 18 that are you know interesting enough to be brought up in front here mostly technical elements there was a lot of textual improvement of course that I don\u0027t want to go into detail use RFC DIF please so we had to introduce an option in the certificate to indicate that the address of the device is not assigned through the certificate itself because typically the acp certificate will carry the ACP address but then you have notes for example in the NOC that are attached through normal ACP connect subnet and they would get their local part from you know local procedures so they wouldn\u0027t be fixed by the certificate and we hadn\u0027t foreseen that so that\u0027s now done by indicating in the certificate that try to figure out your you know ACP local address part differently and then of course in the certificate check we wanted to make sure that we say okay this this is supported if during the enrollment of the device it\u0027s made clear that it is not taking its ACP address from the registration process but locally then that is explicitly shown on the certificate and therefore you know security-wise permitted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "we don\u0027t currently have an AI mechanism that relies on taking the ACP address of appear from the certificate so this is fine and won\u0027t change anything the only use that we currently have is that the note itself learns its own address from the ACP address so if it sees a zero there then it would know I have to figure out my ACP address differently and we do know how to do that for NOC device that are connected by ASAP connect so I was kind of the main technical point that came out of the discusses then clearing up any remaining confusion about what is normative in the document and what is informative and so I think one of the main pain point was the requirement section which goes back to the fact that in the current Charter we were not allowed to have separate requirement documents so then we\u0027re said put the requirements into the actual solution document so we had this informational requirements section in there just to stage within the working with what we actually are working against right what is it that we\u0027re trying to achieve with the ACP in a high-level fashion and that\u0027s basically what still the current requirements section is so that is informative like typically any requirements document that other working groups are producing is true and then the solutions normative and yeah the requirements section was using words must and should and so those obviously are not 2119 normative requirements word so I changed them to underscore if that\u0027s hopefully a good way to make clear that they\u0027re just you know requirement solution requirements but not a normative must insured so yeah then also there were I think several reviewers finally with the Alicia saying that you know we should make sure that we don\u0027t have too much futures in the normative section so I try to remove all that is unnecessary and then I created appendix a10 for those pieces that really are important to keep documented about future so that any future work that we\u0027re doing actually knows what the ACP needs in every in that case and I think I\u0027ll show one or two things in the coming slides so really try to straighten up the normative part to really only be what we know must be done that included for example on the technical side primarily this our sub element that also comes up in the security review right now so that is really an important thing right now and not only for the future so one of the things is that it helps a lot to avoid any undesired ula hatches when we\u0027re assigning addresses Alyssa Cooper thank you for being so responsive to the reviews I think this underscored notation is gonna be confusing so if you could just like use different words or something I think that would be better "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:15",
    "text": "so what would be like the ACP is expected to do X or something like that yeah okay all right yep anything formal would be nice but if we can\u0027t find something good formal then let\u0027s go with that so yeah so intend we have the intent to define intent that was our intent given to us by NMR G so I have a lot of issues with intent but I think at this point in time our overall strategy and you\u0027ll see that also in what we\u0027ve written into the candidate Charter is to bug NMR G with that and we had at 102 and off-site meeting in NMR G where I brought up the point about there was a really great collaboration in MRG resulting in NMR being created and everything but we really didn\u0027t make any progress with intent so please dear NMR G take care of that first before we\u0027re looking back into intent and so that\u0027s effectively what on the technical side is happening what I did elaborate more in a 8 about intent is about the one critical technical issue that we may run into in for example upcoming work items like information distribution where information might be another word for whatever intent ends up being and that\u0027s the problem of circular dependency right so if you\u0027re using the ACP to distribute information that the ACP needs to be billed you may be shooting yourself in the feet creating security issues and so that\u0027s definitely something that we want to be very careful when we\u0027re defining through potential future work like the information distribution is a scheme that does that and so that\u0027s what that Appendix A 8 now is focused on and it gives one example because there is the desire to allow a CPS to be interconnected but what are the policies for interconnection they could be distributed through the network itself so some part of the information distribution could really impact on saying okay this information distribution is always done then on the other side of the network you are seeing if you can accept that information if so then you\u0027re acting on the information then you may bill PACP through so this is just hinting at it but primarily it\u0027s a problem statement for future work around information distribution that leverages the ACP so then what was also a brought up by Alicia\u0027s or some other feedback the dependency against the data plane so we obviously wanted the ACP to be as bulletproof against this configuration whether it\u0027s a poor operator or a stupid Sdn controller or vice versa we don\u0027t want to give them any opportunity to break the ACP and there is pretty much only one key point left which is that all the ACP panels are specified in the standard to be on top of normal data a plain ipv6 link local and that can basically and does in you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "know implementations that I\u0027ve been involved with break the ACP if the data pane ipv6 link local is misconfigured and the fact that this is possible or still part of the conscious choice of trying to find the lowest common denominator for how to carry ACP channels that we know will work across all possible platforms and router types right and that basically any improvements that can be done in the future would rather be done as simple you know add-on documents that would just specify additional link local procedures and as I was outlining in this section also some of them there even you know implementation how you can do this in a way that cannot break you know where the data pane cannot break it you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:27",
    "text": "sorry no den yeah on the iconography so you\u0027ve got a like the passport control guy and a baby buggy for the same thing that those don\u0027t which do you like the passport control guy yeah okay that\u0027s that\u0027s good alright so that\u0027s nice to know I actually do appreciate that so I thought about you know how did you that all right so I\u0027m here now to talk about the constrained voter document or the URL the bottom is wrong and next slide please so just to recap this takes RFC 83 66 which defines some lovely yang it C realises it with to see board using a sit process which is defined in the core working group we can sign it with CMS just like the regular brewski vouchers you can sign it with Cosi at first I couldn\u0027t understand why you would want to a constraint voucher that you then signed with a very big CMS object and turns out that there\u0027s some good reasons to do this and one of them is just because they want uni P rather than TCP and next slide please actually so one of the questions is in this document this document is essentially finished it models vouchers in in co-op but is that is there\u0027s a desire from a lot of people then say okay but now I really want to use co-op to do brewski operations and so the question is does that text belong in this document right now the text lives in a six dish document because that\u0027s the working group that initially originally four years ago wanted to actually do this and so doc text has been leaving that document over the years and going into other documents and so the question is really should the constrained votre document really be the constraint burski document and that\u0027s not what we originally set out to do but there\u0027s several people that seem to be pushing that to happen and I don\u0027t have a basis on which to say no or yes or something like this so I really want some feedback from this and I just little think box we\u0027re actually having a site meeting on on enrollment period at 6:00 p.m. tomorrow so come if you care about that or if you have an opinion about this so next slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:27",
    "text": "I think that\u0027s question yeah we still have some issues with SID allocation these are political layer layer 8 layer 9 issues they\u0027re not happy they\u0027re not what are the SID values so much as what is the process at the IETF by which we\u0027re going to manage these things and we have a couple of different proposals that we need to talk to the core working group which is by the way court code also in this time slot I think it is and so we got the early allocation for the content format numbers there is in fact a fair hair Alliance Interop plan for the end of November which will need to use these numbers and I guess I\u0027ll use private allocations if we have to and so that\u0027s pretty pretty good because we basically have four potentially five companies implementations that are are going to be interoperating all of this you know within weeks and I also have some things I can say that I just wrote about for coop es T\u0027s there\u0027s some other people that are just doing est for that and we\u0027ve been trunk weekly meetings next slide please that\u0027s it that\u0027s last slide yeah questions so in particular the question of whether or not the operational Bruschi part belongs this constraint voucher document if so then the document becomes potentially much larger if not then we either need another document somewhere else or some other decision and I\u0027m I\u0027m I personally would rather just have small documents that sail through quickly although that never seems to really be the truth questions no I\u0027ll go find the doctor want me to go talk to the nock and lower our problems I mean diva Cummins personally its back is that because we open the door [Music] nope okay switch Bible for me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:56",
    "text": "talk to me okay so if I\u0027m not mistaken or the initial chat around one document that we started out originally with are at least in iesg review we did adopt a few smaller items from it afterwards but so we\u0027ve already been discussing since the beginning of the year about the recharter process and so in ideaa 102 we started to write up a proposed Charter and started to circulate that on the working group list and so with the more active discussion like for example here right now to progress that and hopefully conclude so we had one round of review and feedback with our area director Ignace who people who don\u0027t know him so and I think he just opened the you know the official thing and they\u0027d had Becker about we chartering I\u0027m not actually sure what the detailed process there is but I think unis could explain that to us so the main points of the first version was to you know reiterate on what the relevance of the human involvement in these autonomic networks is because we had this you know terminology of you know professionally operated networks in the current chart around on to distinguish us primarily from whole net which is really meant to be completely autonomous like nobody has any idea why anything is going on the network and that\u0027s a good thing and so the goal of enema is obviously somewhat different and more really focused on supporting the network to you know provide a lot of you know specific things that the operators wants to get from the network and policies and so on and so that there\u0027s text to try to make that clear also the relevance of the NOC kind of knock is really just the most commonly understood example for some you know decentralized or centralized external entity that executes on which a lot of control is being exercised whether that is you know involving a lot of human action or future automation so hopefully were capturing that correctly there was the confusion about REM what OM means traditionally for 20 years in the network management area there\u0027s one understanding and then people in the routing working group started to introduce terms like IOM that means something completely different so the proposed charger now says o EMP which is a newer term from the network management side of things that hopefully refuses that confusion of the overloaded PLA and then as far as dates and deliverables so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:56",
    "text": "and you\u0027ll see that at the end of the proposed charger text that what we\u0027re trying to do is to make sure that by default things that we\u0027re accepting in the working group have enough resource to be worked on with respect to the authors so that we you know don\u0027t want to say hey there are all these wonderful things we could do right now but sorry these three things are coming from the same authors maybe we should rather serialize them so really doing time management and then also seeing that by default we\u0027re looking into things that could be finished faster so I think we all went through learning exercise with chat around one and the documents that we started out doing where ultimately you know very big grasp brueski and acp specifically so if we could do it again we probably have cut them up into smaller pieces that we could have better serialize but obviously you know in a round one that\u0027s always very difficult to achieve hopefully we can do a better job on that in the round tube so with that being said next slide so we do have you know a long list of drops that have been presented over the time on the right hand side you can see and I\u0027m not going to go through them just to see that we have a lot of interesting potential work pending and that isn\u0027t even including you know all the things that I for example would like to work on and just finishing up around one or maybe others as well that haven\u0027t been posted and so that\u0027s a exactly why I think we wanted to make sure that we\u0027re not upfront you know looking into specific drafts to adopt but rather making sure that the chart itself reflects the criteria that we want to agree on to accept working documents for working group and so you know high level and that\u0027s what the chart that takes hopefully specifies right what is best on an anima instead of a different working group right so standard policy if somebody else can do it too why should we and what can effectively be done in terms of where we you know as I said from the time management the resources that we have can do it and then also you know that relate to the Charter around one because what we have done with the Ani is a framework that obviously we want to leverage in the future work and we have undefined components like the a si the autonomic functions so those are obviously key pieces that we would like to have follow-up work done because they\u0027re so far from charter one bard next slide okay so here\u0027s the next slides really the you know read down of the text of the Charter and it would really be great if you know we can have comments on these any you know suggestions for improvements or so so that we\u0027re making sure that we\u0027re really taking the feedback from the working group into account and I\u0027ll you know try to ask that at the end of each slide so let me go through this so the autonomic networking integrated modeling approach working group is developing specifications and supporting documentation for integral products "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:58",
    "text": "implementations operational procedures for automated network management and control mechanisms for networks that are developed built and operated by professional personal so actually that should have been read so you know these professional networks that\u0027s what I\u0027ve replaced there with you know it developed built and operated by professional personal and I think especially when we get to the ASAS the autonomic functions I think what we\u0027re trying to achieve is how can you know network software be build in a more modular fast and easier fashion through the concept of you know modular ASAS that are combined to autonomic functions as opposed to what we have right now which is you know in most of network equipment today humongous tens of millions of lines of code monolithic code which totally is the opposite to what we know to be successful in software and data centers for example so that\u0027s why you know to me I think specifically the aspect of you know what can we do for the building of a better network automation software should also be a key part and not only the operational part you know once the software is there how can it easily be used hopefully with the least amount of work I think that\u0027s a lot clearer a lot better understood and much less controversial so please if you think we shouldn\u0027t support the developers to sign up and chime in here but I think that would really be a great outcome of things we would do with autonomic function in autonomic service agents the vision of enema is the fully self job network configure optimize protect the strategy is the incremental introduction of components to make it easier to evolve existing and next generation networks into that direction including the evolution of DevOps for networks through the support of more agile and modular developed and deployed networking automation so that\u0027s basically the restatement of exactly that you know development supported view of the architecture the basis for ongoing work and enema are the framework and components developed by enema so far documented in draft ITF enema reference model standalone work not relating to any component of this framework is welcome for review but working group adoption of such work will be done through explicit recharging so this is a theory this is the most narrowing narrowing part of the Charter so please you know if you are very interested in work where you don\u0027t think you can relate it to the reference model that we\u0027ve written please stand up and chime in because I think that that would be very crucial to understand the hope was that obviously the things that we have in the reference model do very well lay out the scope of work items the components developed so far in this enema framework constitute the autonomic networking infrastructure consisting of the autonomic control plane will spread over secure key infrastructure including the concept of vouchers in generic autonomic signaling protocol grasp comments here no this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:05",
    "text": "there there there more and more slides on the Charter just there getting more and more specific so Michael Richardson I don\u0027t understand the part about DevOps I read it three times now and I have no idea what that sentence means so go on to your other slides and maybe I\u0027ll learn but no I problems with that I don\u0027t know what it means to our Charter I know why DevOps isn\u0027t that were there I think it\u0027s wrong but I don\u0027t know what I don\u0027t even know what even though I just crossed that out I still don\u0027t know what the sentence actually means from a working group point of view right I think that that\u0027s a fair statement I mean I think that you know somebody without operational and experience would come in and say I don\u0027t know what operations mean so maybe that\u0027s I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s a good place to trying to figure out what it means in the Charter but yeah give me an example of what you\u0027re trying to enable the working group to do I think primarily for example on the aasa\u0027 to think about what is necessary to ensure that these ASAS can ultimately be deployed incrementally into a running system instead of just the monolithic update of complete you know network operating software that it comes with a hundred a SAS or so but that you can\u0027t modularly upgrade right so that you know it sounds like a implementation requirement not a protocol requirement well that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s an interesting question all right so so it sounds like you\u0027re trying to tell tell vendors how to build their system rather than how to send the bytes over the wire which is really our major concern well let\u0027s say this so there\u0027s an interesting evolution in the ITF and and it\u0027s one of my rants write that in the past anything that happens within the box stays within the box and the ITF doesn\u0027t care and any API is between four components in a box that should possibly come from different vendors and interoperate was still considered to be just informational because it was in the box the best examples were any specifications of api\u0027s like in the transport layer but recently you know in taps the API specifications have been put onto the standards track so hopefully this is a good evolution and this is effectively what I was thinking about right if we\u0027re building you know ASAS can we get standards for the api\u0027s between software components that we would like to come from different vendors and there are being you know by the operator put together into the same devices annexed my way yeah one comment yeah all solders I find is also a little bit confusing and actually maybe also in similar come to me it seems to be a little bit the conviction drums first busy anime talks about the self shop network a self-configuring self-healing octopus self optimizing self protection Betty if that vision is fulfilled the question is what role actually is there for DevOps to play so it seems to be a self developing that would be really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:05",
    "text": "great but I don\u0027t think we want to target but there\u0027s a big question but is it the confirm the self chop functions function I think so there\u0027s some inherent agenda of those functions yes the DevOps the DevOps that I said is really about you know building autonomic functions and allowing them to be really modularly introduced into the network and maybe that\u0027s that\u0027s a better you know explanation than saying DevOps right so maybe that\u0027s that\u0027s not yet a well enough understood passwords - well I think there\u0027s understood as a is word but I think what I\u0027m having a little bit troubled with is that there are things we have two layers of abstraction one thing is the function and the other way then the other aspects of development of those functions so you wanna shoot both here I don\u0027t know if I didn\u0027t help you to propose better texts that would be great I think about ya know there is a nasty guy sitting next to you that will remind you right tecna\u0027s will donors or tell us you most answered my my command DevOps is fancy marketing hand-waving term which pretty much means nothing so lesser than operations those are normal things so trying to trying to describe how things should be used versus how things should be developed those are two different things and I think the focus of the chatter should be on how to develop the things or basically the specification not necessarily how they are used in all possible cases right now I\u0027ve taken the point that instead of writing just the keyword def herbs just the fact of being able to support you know modularly developed and deployed software should be within the scope right so maybe that\u0027s that\u0027s around thee at least that\u0027s what I try to achieve with this and you know I wasn\u0027t sure how well DevOps was understood to enable that but it seems definitely not a will from highway so I find that the scope here the configuration house optimization protection is actually the value very wide ambitious version and to me that the health and optimized maybe the is to term have some overlap I\u0027m not sure whether because if you see house the network is health and or the network is protected or it\u0027s optimized sometimes this a similar concept actually I\u0027m not sure how would you define clearly this job what is the concept of the clear scope of this job I think that that terminology is you know in network management established over decades and I would refer to you know folks that understand that better than than I do to jump in with you know whether this is also just too much marketing term or you know sufficient yeah so I would suggest that if we put this in the Charter we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:07",
    "text": "may use those clearly defined terms instead of those like marketing words I mean we have certain size limitations of the Charter and things so I\u0027m just wondering what the most you know shorthand precise way is just to write just to mention an answer to will alone Chavarria there are existing definition for the top stuff and I mean we can have something very precise and concise so it\u0027s not an issue protection is essentially toward a security aspect optimize is to watch the performance of the running system and healing is to what the when something wrong is going on so yeah some overlap but it\u0027s pretty well defined in a lot of literature clarify so you mean house is the I\u0027m some kind of the internal process and the protection is if you protect something outside that true from different directions yeah this is only from internally or externally point of view but here is something that the system is not behaving and it\u0027s not mean all point I mean if there is something wrong with the expected behavior of the system from performance point of view protection is essentially a term used in the literature towards the security aspect how to protect the system from attacks whatever is related to security issues which is two different things one is with reservation protection in terms of making the system come back to a normal behavior and protection is not a situation I would I could agree with that if you say that the house is something because when a network could have some issues mean it mainly comes to reasons why is that some software or Hardware mistake and the other one is that we got attacked by some outside of I mean attractions so that if you define that too clearly I think that that that\u0027s fine with my site okay next one okay there are known gap so this was basically the overview and then basically all these following slides are about different sub arias of what was covered in the previous slide so there are known gaps in the framework including defining the domain boundaries membership of the domain structure life cycle roles authorization coordinating of autonomic service agents integration with net operation centers and reporting mechanisms information distribution within an autonomic Network interaction with yang based management systems additional generic use cases such as resource management or SLA assurance animal will work on these gaps and other aspects of the existing frameworks more detailed below but exception there are long term issues that are not yet well understood to consider specific solutions for intend and tie into machine learning and other AI techniques I don\u0027t know will not work on these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:08",
    "text": "issues without explicitly chartering right there\u0027s always a lot of you know research interest and so on but will really have a hard time and we\u0027ve seen that in the past two years to bring down these pieces to something that somebody could actually implement and/or operate next like animal will continue to work on fixes extensions variations in operational or implementation detailing of the overlay and I and its component examples of such work it\u0027s not limited to but includes a and i ôm p interfaces this is this term operations administration management provisioning for example yang models for the a and i so that obviously is one of those you know most short-term you know missing pieces of what we\u0027ve done in chart around one and i\u0027ve got something you know have worked lying up for for a long time structuring Ani virtualization compounding right there were always these questions okay I got one a and I how do I connect another one variations of voucher formats that work is already going on as we saw on presentations brueski bootstrap protocol aspects different proxies extensions for wireless network also is seeing a lot of interest and then common grasp extensions for multiple use cases all transfer DNS SD compatible grass objective so these this slide is really about you know the most immediate things to leverage and extent missing pieces in what we\u0027ve done chat around one any you know questions suggestions on this one here or the last slide sorry I just welcome back to telecom when you talk about virtualization are you thinking of multi-tenancy as well yeah I think that it could be in scope I I was primarily thinking in with virtualization about what happens with a and IR so if I want to build virtual routers and but yeah multi-tenancy would be potentially another variation of that so but yeah I think there because operators are starting or even are sharing hardware with other operators force by regulation or just by a commercial agreement so right yeah but you know and that\u0027s exactly good to know the different use case is to collect them because I think there definitely is a difference between you know a management plane that you need to have for something virtual versus the management plane you need to have for physical equipment and so there was just basically the starting point to think about it in so that multi-tenancy of actual hardware is definitely part of that next like so now autonomic functions just we\u0027re explaining for the charge of the term right it\u0027s the enema framework term for distributed functions leveraging the Ani "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:08",
    "text": "preferably automatically managed the enema working group will consider work items to specify individual autonomic functions including but not limited to standardized autonomic function use cases such as auto discovery of decentralized services such as those in the network operation centers autonomic slice manage made and autonomic SLA management work on a and I use case and autonomic functions must be detailed and complete enough in this by the way is a summary that is meant to apply to all the previous points made not only to the ones here on the on this slide must be detailed and completely enough to support implementation of solutions that can be deployed and operator standards track is preferred but more exploratory experimental or information informational work proposals will be accepted based on the expected operational benefits ignores book donors to comments on this slicing ztf openly does not work on slicing as such work on slice management seems a bit strange in in the chapter so on another hand this is seems to be a really very specific work item compared to the rest of a chatter which is generic enough to accommodate say broader scope of the work so from without an ad hat as as working group interested working group member I would vote for removing slice and completely from the chatter it just does not fit here and you know I don\u0027t even know what any official understanding in the idea of slicing is except for that we haven\u0027t been able to figure out what it means but you know to me it could exactly be something similar to the multi-tenancy of hard work right so maybe other terminology like multi-tenancy would be better terms to express something but I mean I think as long as it\u0027s fine just by removing it doesn\u0027t mean that we wouldn\u0027t be able to work on something that meets exactly what\u0027s on the bottom which is we figure out that the proposed work can be implemented as beneficial and can be deployed and operated right precisely to have that sufficiently broad chatter which allows for experiments to come in but not necessarily listing them out was a particularly names right on on the network sizing in general in ITF the data plane work is happening in the routing area and that\u0027s called VPN plus from a manageability point of view it\u0027s just another say instance of the data plane was called plus control plane we already have all the mechanisms which I needed for that so no additional work is strictly the multi-tenancy I mean I\u0027m not sure if the yang I have better separation but I do vividly remember how you know there\u0027s instance and logical network entity models which fit into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:09",
    "text": "that and they\u0027re precisely done for this use case and I recommend on and basically what is a criteria for the exit from X from experiment if we are talking about the experimental track documents so what is success great success and exit criteria for the experiments this this should not be listed in the chat or such but this is one area that needs to be thought of so if we\u0027re doing experiment when that experiment is over and what does it mean succeeded failed or what so what would be your text proposal for this paragraph that\u0027s something about the criteria of experimentation this is an IETF working group this is not a RTF which does say experiments or research so something tangible needs to come out of this which results in the reigning code and actual deployment experiences if that cannot result in running code I would probably have a question whether this working group should work on that no I agree but isn\u0027t that what the read sentence already said yes we may be just the read sentence says circa wet I mean it seems for me maybe simply removes the words experimental ten you know and so the issue but still you know we are allow people to propose some something new but towards you know running code towards you know to be standardized yes I\u0027m not disagreeing with that and my comment is about the words experimental informational because those match the document tracks and experimental document is basically the question of experimental document is it defines an experiment it\u0027s kind of a continuing process what\u0027s a criteria out of that the transient short I do not have a text to propose right now I will think about this well I mean I\u0027m just looking at the experimental I\u0027ve seen in the recent past and I thought in the IDF we do fairly well understand that there is risk more risk involved and we don\u0027t recommend it for any anybody to adopt but you know for you know people who want to innovate get involved in the experiment and obviously by default the the goal of you know experimental stuff in the ideas is that we figure out all the things missing to make it standards so I thought that was implied but I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s not implied then maybe that\u0027s something we should be Michael Michael Richardson so so if I understand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:10",
    "text": "this slide correctly um what you\u0027re kind of premise your premise here is that we have built a good foundation we know how to pour concrete and your proposal is now to open it up to in my metaphor to a variety of different house shapes on top of the concrete foundation that we have and some of them will be crazy experimental things and some of them will be less and but that that\u0027s the idea that we now have a common base in our in our process and now we can go upwards in the kind of concept that\u0027s that\u0027s what you\u0027re thinking and you know especially when we come to autonomic functions do things automatically right with distributed agents I can see a lot more you know resistance from people with established a management practice so that I think it would be a lot harder for any such you know automated management to get enough you know support from operators to go to standards Trek they\u0027d rather want to see you know it being given the label of experimental so that people who are you know Courage\u0027s enough to put these things into the running wild collect experience and then come back and revisit the you know result of that experience and I think that would be similar to what I think I received to rock I think that I think that this is great this is really important stuff to do and and maybe it\u0027s okay that it\u0027s in our charter um but I\u0027m I I would be surprised if we have any the concern I have is we puts a bunch of stuff like this in our charter you have very few people show up to do any work and and then we think the working group is more abundant dead and should be closed right when what\u0027s really happening is that our belief that the foundation is well built was not yet correct and that anyone in an implementation point of view maybe the protocols are perfect or maybe they\u0027re not but but that actually the people that were out trying to do innovative house construction and design discovered that their foundation was miss miss poured and they have to rebuild that part and so there\u0027s going to be actually a fair pair bit of delay I would say until people actually feel confident that the stuff underneath them is good and so I I don\u0027t know how to write that into a charter because it\u0027s more of a industry-wide kind of problem but I just want to say I think that something we should just be aware of that and and maybe we don\u0027t want to an option is to just defer this text to another retarder is what I\u0027m trying it say this I think let me give you a positive and a negative on this so the negative is that I would agree that the likelihood that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:10",
    "text": "you know from the classical constituencies of you know ITF participants that are very centric to you know current network operations I would agree that the likelihood of getting a lot of cool you know Auto net autonomic functionality is rather small we had you know one or two interesting presentation in the past from customers like on Comcast about autonomic fault management and so on but on the other hand we also have the DI energy IR D F a research group that has started to look into a lot of interesting decentralized automated infrastructure things and I just wanted to make sure that when they actually ever get to a point where they can define things that need to operate and that can be implemented and deployed for experiments that we as enema open to them you know to define these things as autonomic function as autonomic service agents I guess your you are participating in that research group so far I\u0027ve just you know presented to them that you know I just would hate for them to think that they have to go invent things that because they were they were ignorant of what we\u0027ve already produced oh no I presented enema also the history with you know NMR G and Anna but I think you know the the collaboration between di energy and animal would be you know slightly different but hopefully you know there could be success story made out of that as well but I rah I have a hard time seeing that anything from the research side coming up being implemented deployed would be more than experimental first so that that was basically and that I think is actually the opportunity to really get interesting autonomic functions that go beyond you know basic level stuff i clarification question I\u0027m Sanjay from my tree regarding on the autonomic slice management to mean comic slice management as our management of network slices of many networks or do you mean that the virtualization of a and I the enema network infrastructure and then managing the fashion of managing of that ni multiple slice instances is autonomic if it is a the letter I mean if it is former I think the person who mentioned that I think it\u0027s I know that there is some efforts a previous effort to bring the slice management in general into the ITF but I had a I heard that there are some issues with that but if it is a letter I think that\u0027s the still within the scope of anymore working group because you see so as you said making multi-tenancy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:10",
    "text": "aspect of any my infrastructure as much supersizes so yeah justice so I think that would be kind of maybe second or third words that maybe we should think about rewarding that in terms of you know what do we need to do in the and I infrastructure could or should we do if we have a multi-tenancy infrastructure so to respond to your command physical network logical network virtual network sliced network and you have a network is a network physical know the virtual node is just a note and the core management aspects of that and cooperation all aspects of that are exactly the same the differences are on a platform specific aspects implementation aspects and so on so they are not strictly exactly the same elements but from a manageability point of view and if we are talking about the service management is the same so trying to distinguish one particular flavor of that works so to say does not seem to be right well I would say in general I see one big difference which is that if I\u0027m building any form of virtualized slice however you call it network on top of an underlying network that is already running and working and very often going to do the management of that virtualized network through the underlying network so when we started out with enema or we basically with primarily focusing physical networks where there is nothing underlying right so there was a he remember kind of the out-of-band physical management that we wanted to try to get rid of that is basically that underlying pre-existing network through which we can manage the new network so we\u0027re trying to get rid of that and I think the question of whether or how we actually want to get rid of that does change when we go higher up in the stack of virtual networks I do agree with you - well or innocence I don\u0027t disagree with you on this just that from my side I think that\u0027s trying to find really different approaches to different classes of networks is not necessary right yes there are subtle differences they need to be accounted for but overall if we are talking if you take any practical router today it\u0027s a virtual router even if it\u0027s books as a physical box the way how that runs internally is very different than it was just a normal hard work life and that\u0027s just a reality right and maybe that is that is as much as there is out of it which is an informational document or so that in the end says just because your virtualizing your alters there still are a lot of operational benefits to have the same manageability infrastructure like for physical infrastructure because right now I think the perception of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:11",
    "text": "people is if I have an underlying network I can manage my virtual network on top of it in the same way which may actually not be true because the ownership may be different right so I think but simply looking into that problem space and figuring out what even to do right and as you said maybe it\u0027s nothing more than informational there is nothing new it could be perfectly great outcome but I don\u0027t think we have you know done that analysis and come to conclusions yes definitely looking but not necessary precisely specifying into what you look it should be generic enough so again I will repeat that putting in the name of network slicing there seems not to be a right approach no no I mean that\u0027s fine I think the DevOps and slice seem to be you know too much marketing with too few people agreeing on what exactly they mean so that\u0027s that\u0027s for sure that those guys yeah next time all right autonomics software agents are the enemy framework component representing software modules that implement autonomic functions the animal working group will consider work items relating to a si another aspect of autonomic functions that are applicable independent of specific autonomic functions and it\u0027s a si these work items include but are not limited to design implementer guidelines for a si a is a lifecycle management that is also where kind of this modular deployable would come in is a coordination dependency result and that\u0027s basically you know what as documents over an acceptance of work items will be based on the perceived value to implementers and operators status of work can be standards track if the work includes normative statements about note external behavior such as requirements for yang interfaces on a si exploratory work in this area can be experimental work describing note internal only behavior will be information this actually is what I wrote before I figured out that recently I think as as late as one or two months ago they started to put taps you know api\u0027s on to standard strike so I\u0027m still trying to figure out what the official evolution in the ITF policy for standardizing internal interfaces is that you have any ATS X IDs in the room any idea what what kind of the the policies now are I was always working from the principle which I think has been there for four decades that internal interfaces aren\u0027t standardized they must be informational that\u0027s basically why I wrote this text but you know it now was very positively surprised that that seems not to be the case anymore with at least my interpretation of what happens in tabs came from to the Korea in the academia in a point of the Khedive point of view is we have our colony we have a sink about to the add visual interest technology is applied to us um whatever in the environment and the register is there any possibility to insert artificial intelligence some machine learning algorithm bringing to the some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:11",
    "text": "help to the automatic function so we had in the beginning slide some exclusion about AI just because we\u0027re very you know afraid that we hadn\u0027t seen any work being proposed here around AI to be specific enough that we would know how to defend it as an ITF working item with respect you do know what you can implement and so we said this should be done to a recharge right now this is a big reach are Turing but it doesn\u0027t mean that if we figure out that there is something about AI that you know is really grounded enough that it can be implemented and deployed that that can\u0027t be added to the two through the Charter through very simple recharging steps as we seem that difference between big recharges and small individual item recharges that that exists but at this point in time I think the first step about those things is individual submissions and then verifying how much is this actually something where interpret will implementation of standards is something that can actually be achieved by the work if that can be achieved in the working group likes this then will basically do a separate recharter for that Anana so let me share my feedback on the Charter so far maybe it won\u0027t be easily actionable but we are on the fifth or six slides on the Charter already and I\u0027ve seen every single buzzword that makes that we\u0027ll make sure people will come to you to this working group to do something there is AI there is machine learning there is virtualization there is self whatever you know there is lifecycle management so basically you know we\u0027ve got two type of charters the one that are inclusive where you say this is what you\u0027re working on and we could be accepting more work or the one that are very like precise and right now we\u0027ve got the mix of the two and I\u0027m wondering if this is really white with the right way it\u0027s perfectly fine to have like the vision of a new map is there is one line it\u0027s the vision you know texting everything that\u0027s where you want to go and there there is you have like six slides of all different possible things that you want to work on but also include and I\u0027m wondering if the writer in the end maybe you want to agree on this is what we\u0027re going to deliver with the vision in the end for future chartering sorry so I\u0027m afraid that you\u0027re going to come we\u0027re going to discuss this charter and whether the the work is in charter for every second you proposed work going to discuss that a lot in the work future work group meetings so yeah so one of the reasons why we put text in there that\u0027s that\u0027s more expenditure is because we\u0027ve seen a lot of work being brought to the working group and we were trying to basically tunnel that in the future more into things they we think do produce actionable and usable results right and and and that bed actually meant to repeat the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:12",
    "text": "individual components that we have in the animal vision because I think that doing it through a charter yes it is some replication or what we\u0027ve done in the reference model but you know it should hopefully help a lot more to you know the open-ended invitation that we have for people to come present work but hopefully in the future making that because you know in the first charter we didn\u0027t have this more detailed specification all right so this this is this is new there are a lot of people that I think it could bring in interesting work but very often it\u0027s you know too high level too abstract not grounded enough not relating to what we\u0027ve done in our mind before so yeah so there\u0027s a little bit you know an attempt to set the scope for people who are new to the work and can actually much more leverage the Charter 2-0 to figure out what they would need to do to you know well work with an animal actually I mean kinda to agree with Ben why you know this new charter text looks so long to including everything also they did here explanations maybe what we could do is you know try to short the Charter tags but put those people in a explanation into a you know working group document which is not going to be published as RFC but as a in a document you know working document for the working group to say was you know could be in charter what was motive here in that document how that well writing a document that is part of the Charter or not maybe so the right way but having something concise you\u0027ve got a couple of sentences there that could be discussed like DevOps what do you mean so you must be you must have requirements we matchable okay end of story describing things about experimental that might be so not track that potentially frontal typically what it in the past is that if you work on this work item well in the Charter it says not the Charter the milestone this one is San attract it could be visited right but more guidelines on what you want to do might be helpful I mean each of these slides has basically one of the areas right but if we were stripping down the details but that\u0027s fine if that\u0027s that it\u0027s better needed I think then the problem is what I think Shannon and I are saying is that we have a lot of people that you know come in with hopefully fresh ideas and useful work perspectives but we\u0027re repeating over and over the aspects of how do they how do these things need to be shaped to make sense for an idea of working in a you know more explanatory document than in a charter so so hearing all of this weakness McDonough\u0027s hearing all of this F kind of worrying feeling that the scope might be really too broad "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:12",
    "text": "yes new work should be coming in into the idea does that mean that it needs to come to anima versus say potentially new working group which focuses on a fragment of what is being discussed here I don\u0027t have an answer right now but I don\u0027t believe that animal should be basically all gathering place for all new work which is somehow related to this chart so yes I would agree that this needs to be more precise and probably what really needs to be is the deliverables you probably will talk about that in the coming slides and about the timelines and the deliverables so as the scope seems to be broad the set of deliverables needs to be very concrete and specific but remember the the first two slides said I think a rather strict scope insofar as that we\u0027re looking for our pieces that are relating to the reference model that we\u0027ve built and that reference model I don\u0027t think that any pieces you know that I can imagine within that reference model would be too broad right so I mean just because we list these different components on each slide more explanatory doesn\u0027t make it actually wider it just provides more details right so our our very much question you know what are your criteria for broad I don\u0027t think the number of slides can be that because it\u0027s been raw said we can you know make this arbitrary short arbitrary long things was primarily for educational purposes definitely not a number of slides but at least the list of documents that you have there is already quite large so if we are talking about for meeting cycle intervals the question is can those documents actually be progressed to a tangible result during the for meeting cycles and I\u0027m not expecting an answer for you I\u0027m just commenting and but I think that would basically be the process which you know is the question on the on the last slides that we manage documents it\u0027s individual contributions up to the point where where whether the working group majority things you know where we have rough consensus that from now on the working group work on this document can basically be finished in that amount of time or that people think this is so important that even if this takes two or three years we would like to do it right but at that point in time the the suggestion was to get explicit permission from the 80s than to do it right okay that was the point right to Jefferson I agree shink justification when you mentioned another document to describe the work done in the the working group you know you know I got confused because at the end of the day "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:12",
    "text": "what what the fine is what we\u0027ll be presenting in the the meeting is the Charter so because in the you know like I don\u0027t know what this can you know can help us the last one yep miss the last night so anima will coordinate with other IETF working groups and IRT of research groups and only accept work that is not better suited for other working groups so so that part I mentioned initially but it\u0027s fairly late in the slide here s Arion that in the Charter but I think it\u0027s the right pleasure examples include variation of components of the Ani in a solution owned by other working groups such as Sixtus for specific variations of brewskie mechanisms details of Ani components owned by other working groups for example role for the ACP using ripple protocol extension of modifications NMR G for definition of intent terminology and taxonomy and di energy for definition of aspects of distributed autonomic functions not well enough understood to allow adoption by anima right so working group items accepted under this Charter will be tracked through milestones and have by default to be brought into working group last call and not more than four ITF cycles work I didn\u0027t expect it to take longer time are subject to ADA approval right so you know we can we can cut out a lot you know explanations from the middle of the document just listing you know without explaining and without giving examples and then for example having as Shane said you know and in you know just informational document explaining a little bit better to newcomers what that could mean in detail and then we have a fairly first Charter but yeah this this is new to us so please help in getting the Charter outline that that you prefer I mean then while you\u0027ve you\u0027ve seen a lot more than Ignace I think over the years what what work was being brought into animal working group and that\u0027s I think what we\u0027re trying to manage so since you mention my name binoculars let me go back to Mike so maybe what I would do right but okay it\u0027s just an advice because I\u0027ve not been following an imagined little discussion but typically there is a mix of many thing the Charter there is a mix of the process right the last paragraph is about tracking through milestone and for ITF cycle and then is edie approval but you know it\u0027s too late for example because they\u0027re going to say okay we accept this document and another for I have meetings we\u0027re going to say well now it\u0027s too long you go back to idiot prove all doesn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:14",
    "text": "work then you explain also for process point of view that it could it should be an attractive could actually Montel it\u0027s a process stuff right so this in my man should be removed then there is like all different use cases then there is the vision then there is all the keywords I would simplify this a lot that doesn\u0027t mean I would do there is I was reading the Charter and I was thinking that I could present like 10 new drafts here and pretends that they fit into the Charter in one of the previous slides I was reading about operator interests though if you could go back yeah acceptance of work items will be based on the perceived value to implementers and operators sure it\u0027s like normal procedure why did you have that I\u0027m going to come with the first lighting I\u0027ve got some operator interest and I\u0027m about to implemented I fit the Charter it\u0027s about the lifecycle of an agent okay I\u0027m in charter so maybe maybe it\u0027s not the right work right but I was really thinking and writing this about the fact when things are at the architecture level and you know the question is can we bring it down to the level where it actually results in running code right right next sentence the status of work and with no track if the work includes emotive statement about normal external interface I mean this was just you know that\u0027s fine you\u0027re right that is that it\u0027s just like maybe maybe just the next sentence an exploratory work in this direction B in fiction on top sure so what always be I mean if you\u0027re not sure speak to your ad write work describing no internal only behavior with informational write again it could be part of the milestone easily and whatever document evolves it could be changed to attract I mean I could there are so many things that charter that that everybody will be happy but in the end it\u0027s very difficult to know where you\u0027re going with your deliverables well okay but wait a sec knows are two different things right the first thing is what is explanatory that isn\u0027t needed to be put into the charger all right so that\u0027s that certainly very well taken there is probably a lot more that we need to explain to you know participants in the working group then what you know the IETF expects us to put in the Charter point well-taken right so and we can work through that we\u0027ll just remove these things and then we\u0027ll hear back from you know which points we should put back there the other part is about the broadness of scope right and I think that basically is something where we try to be much more precise in constraining this into implementable and you know related to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:19",
    "text": "the anima reference model and the components that we\u0027ll want to do and excluding the components we don\u0027t want to do right so if you if you have any more constraints that you think we should do that\u0027s fine right just because we have many examples there\u0027s obviously not mean that all of these will be you know have good proposals for work on them and so from that perspective it\u0027s equally fine to remove all the examples of the document and also move them out to an informational document right but I think the primary questions field is what is the minimum necessary definition of the scope and if you have you know opinions about how to do that different or better than we\u0027ve tried to do it here that very much welcome at okay all right all right yeah we have a very good discussion our return texts today are terrific much longer than we thought so we have only 20 minutes left and we have six or seven presentations so I have to cut it off and I\u0027m prefer to give time to those who never it\u0027s you know presented you our working group so Kerry have the trust network from concern yeah yeah this is a sanction from a tree um actually this is our update from last July meeting I wanted to on trust networking and procedures for tonight networking could you that\u0027s right yeah um during this mature meeting I got two comments one is on the elaborating more on differences between our proposal trust uh economic domain and enema a security framework and the second comment was on providing implementation experience of KD based on anima as a use case so we tried to update our trapped basically adding one section section poll which is on differences between trust networking and anyone security framework and this section describes are the major differences between the proposed trust autonomic domain and enemy security framework and the differences we thought about how we can describe differences and fortunately the Brian carpenter from this working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:20",
    "text": "proposed trapped on limited domain concept and I think it has a very good criteria to describe the domain itself because any ma is kind of a one limited domain example and our TA D is also one of them so by using the same criteria to make a comparison between that it\u0027s I he thought it\u0027s good so so we describe that in if you read the section for filling videos on item by item and those are the criteria that domain as a whole domain members domain boundary policy now the connection to Internet security model and any operation so for each criteria we try to provide all key explanation and also against any math\u0027s good very much okay and so then we will play although the content itself is a fairly long but I\u0027m try to speed up the the first one criterias domain as a whole in our tae the domain can be defined by a trust so Trust is a main criteria this means that all members within a tid trust each other so that the members can communicate with the others without any concern of security once it is in accepted as intimate member for this KD needs to add an additional si which is a domain administrator so its main functionalities to manage trust policies including allocating trust level to domains and their members and domain er administer can extend can be extended from the currently functionality any mamasa or we can define on you a si and also not crazier than linear analysis for main members and in the sense of our KD inori\u0027s assumed as a host that has communication functions required by the domain and since ta da is defined under the intent of trust a note should have identifier an oath and compatible ID and in our tid although it is not fully comparable with uh but without any my yet but when we find out the ad we try to use this ID as a words call self-certifying ID but there can be I think we can utilize the Animas local device ID as as a certified body and preferably if we can extend it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:21",
    "text": "maybe we can extend it with probably keep mission for the global eunuch is purpose next like this so for domain boundary 40 ad we\u0027re defining domain boundaries are using a special is a at an old called gateway gateway authenticates the node and evaluates because just traversing this of the node and if the external node is trustworthy and the communication channel between Gateway and the node is safe and reliable then we can allow those nose outside domain to communicate it safely and then from the policy point of view the domains can also have a self-certify ID as an ordinary node to become a member of another domain and then domain administrator must take role of the ricard procedures of a parent domain such as trust revaluation join and leave post the gateways must take necessary translation of interactions when passing their domain boundaries so the whole domain KD can be him being buried himself and it can be defined recursively and can also interact with the remaining outside of the for me so administrator performing such a such a role and the gateways perform steve necessary mechanism for translating i\u0027m a translation and mapping and etc technology in terms of technology kv allows any technology right then in the current enema framework the assumes the idea of the IP technology but on KD in principle allows any any collosseum type you like there was or other analogous to tonight as well as long as the domain is a trust domain is properly defined so only time for inter domain communication is that KK must aware of mechanisms for both domain and then takes a role of translation the Gateway performs that so each domain has a specific addressing scheme and identification and the noise information must be done deliberately unique identified okay so connection to the internet so basically the Gateway performs the the translation between the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:22",
    "text": "local domain a domain specific to 2d to the Internet in this case we assume the Internet as global global trust domain and if by by having separate individual domains to join the global Internet domain and the eight ways in between can translate it performs the making mechanisms so one example is in the next slide shows that as you can see here we have a to trust domain and the in between we have a cholera internet and from each trust domain the news reading they trust domain to communicate each other through this global internet it has go through the it with interest domain it has its own private ID ID and when it goes out to the global Internet is global ID in this case the just centric domain itself is also IP based version that then then it uses private IP as internal ID and then when it goes out uses the public IP so mapping between the translation mapping between them is done by the domain gating but as I said just just to me can be technology independent although this is example shows up the private IP cases but actually we can we can also have different kinds of technologies locked and the right side of how these mapping is okay I think having too much time I guess so scared just a private private model I think we can forget this you can\u0027t read an operation wise and I think you cannot refer to them and for the second comment we have have a prototype implementation on our just autonomic domain this is a the software mojo that we designed the next and description on that and this sequence flow diagram that how its components interact each other and we also built our test bed to to test our components are that we prototyped a big build basically we really defined a five different trust domain two domains are embedded in another two domains and it we have got "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:22",
    "text": "five different papers and and show some communication verification based on this test bed and concept that I introduced I guess that\u0027s it thank you thank you and what we don\u0027t have time for questions so next Peter for the constraint joins perks II know because we would try to keep variety yeah if you could do in five minutes we have families for for Michael yeah just tell me the next yeah you should stay here with the mic okay thanks so this is about the constraint don\u0027t proxy it fits in the Brisky escape proposal where Brisky uses EST HTTP and TLS we have a constraint approach where the don\u0027t proxy is part of that and actually it uses what it does is that the certain proxy which you will find in the TFS 16 draft will be replaced by the poxy which will be finding next so this is in graphic gray that you will see the pledge the one which wants to start be part of the network and you have the HT server and in between there is this circuit proxy in the HTTP TLS ROM and for the constrained device we talking about join proxy I talks lindlar go to the pledge and it talks global to the eesti server and it uses co-op and DTLS instead of the HTTP TLS yes please it\u0027s fast enough the constraints so the transport format is that what you want to do between the pledge and and the proxy is that between the joint proxy and HT server you want to remember what actually the link local address from the from the pledge boss well the joint proxy and the HT server Tory\u0027s out of his global addresses so what we have sent is from the pledge to the jumper see we have in detail s payload the Detailers payload is encrypted we don\u0027t want to join proxy to decrypt it and encrypt it again so what we will have is the DTLS payload will be unchanged sent over from the joint party to is this over and so what you do with in packets on the joint proxy to eesti server in which we also keep the link local addresses and some other information about the place and that is then sent over to the HD server what do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:24",
    "text": "you know useful that is a new format which is defined recently by the coworker group is that you will have the possibilities which was not there before and which actually was supported by HTTP but present-day but my coop is that you can have different media formats and in this case what we will do is that we will define several media formats in the in role in the payload image some of those actually specifies the the address of the page and in the other one you have to modify details payload clear okay so maybe Michael already explained it that we have to those draft relations so there is the Brisky which is piece which is part on which this is all based we have the voucher document which is also here in animal which is well well enter Tommy cheese and IRC these days and then in ace we have something which is called easty coop s which defines how you do est from a pledge to the to the HT server and we have an other one which is going to be discussed by Michael which tells you about the constraint voucher and it\u0027s tells you also which are the Biscay extension to the est functions how that is going to be done I won\u0027t say anything about that the only thing I wanted to say is to make the whole thing complete and have the unconstraint a version of of the key emphasis thing is this proxy and we really hope that it will be of interest to this working group yeah okay yeah thank you Peter yeah we\u0027ll say discuss autism in the nest yeah thank you so much for the opportunity thank you Michael smart yeah I believe that will be the last one for this meeting I thank you Swensen we\u0027re doing on a secure home gateway and with Syrah and one of the things we did not solve was how to initially cook up a phone and there the Gateway next slide next line so Gateway my ot device and as firewalls all things we have an app which is shown on an iPad here and it needs to do a secure connection to the Gateway effectively it needs to enroll in the domain next slide next slide you read those they\u0027re self this is the tinder of IOT devices next slide and the real problem is how do we bootstrap this trust next slide so that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to do next slide yes this is the one I really want initially we thought I thought to myself "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:24",
    "text": "and said hey you know what I\u0027m gonna run the Registrar on your smartphone and the device that would normally be your registrar in your home is going to be the router I want to enroll since the smartphone has internet and the router does not yet have internet because it\u0027s not yet hooked up and needs passwords and administrative access all in the registrar in there and will flip things around and it will be essentially bursty as we know it of course smartphones get run over dropped just died having the root of all trust on your vulnerable device might seem like a reasonable policy from gee it\u0027s it\u0027s closest to me and front most friendly to interface to it\u0027s not so good from a resiliency point of views with real people and real stuff so this proposal basically says well no look we\u0027re gonna put the the registrar on the device that\u0027s going to be the kind of infrastructure for the home but since it doesn\u0027t have internet yet it can\u0027t talk to the masa so the idea is we actually have a next slide yeah there\u0027s the idea next slide next slide there so basically we just brewski have a request a votre request turning the what was a forward process where the pledge talked to the Registrar which talks the Massa and then answers into one where the pledge talks to the registrar and then relays the request to the basa and release data back and don\u0027t think in this time I can explain to why DPP was important VPP does something similar and I would ideally like to leverage all of the crypto that DPP has defined dan sitting over there with his hands over his face doing a ideally like to leverage it also the crypto was identical such that when we can\u0027t have smartphones that have interfaces that they can speak the right management frames that DPP requires that it\u0027s not kind of all just falls out and becomes that today we can\u0027t do that and so this is essentially a DBP doesn\u0027t use masses and other things like this and so there is some changes but the idea is that the proof of who\u0027s what and the QR codes that DPP use would be leveraged to do things we I thought a lot about using EAP noob but none of the devices I care about have any way to import or output large QR codes so specifically the Registrar does not ability to do that and while we could make something up new involving flash the LEDs in the front I decided that was harder than I wanted to do next slide please there\u0027s some time sequence diagrams if you really want to go into it we can discuss it no time right now keep going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:25",
    "text": "and just some other little notes if you\u0027re curious about how we are securing the connection so fundamentally this connection from your smart phone to this to this router is a TLS connection over link look-over or actually ula addresses and we are intend to ship the routers with certificates built with their ula address already pre-selected and DNS already populated with a name and therefore were able to put something in a certificate on the device so that\u0027s the TLS server certificate side of things how is that side authenticated you know it\u0027s real device and the name matches and so the problem is how do we get the TLS client certificate and why are we using a TLS client certificate because we don\u0027t want any passwords next slide I don\u0027t really think it\u0027s belongs in anima yet it leverages all the basically an animal protocol so if not here then where and I\u0027d only have time for that special either thanks thanks we\u0027re done here so we have Wyman\u0027s so it\u0027s too short for any presentations I chose this meeting and door are welcome to have more discussing under the Charter in the meninist and hopefully we could have say our new attire by next meeting then what could a scenario chatter please really do the chat is not for the ad the chat is for the working group sure yes yeah okay so see you all in Prague yeah thank you make sure your silent pollutions [Music] "
  }
]