[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "of IPR in the discussions that take place in this room and IPR that you have done that belongs to your company or something like that you are aware of please notify it all at the chairs know at the end of this meeting now there are other policies which are now presented in the not well in particular there are new policies which were defined before harassment and good behavior code of conduct type of things so please have a look at the best practice documents which are pointing he appointed here and there\u0027s also something about the copyright statement and if you if you are in a bad situation about harassment something like that and there is now a group the idea that you can contact and this is this Ombuds team which is very hard for me to pronounce but there is a link here there are people behind this link so if you issue a face a situation which is that you don\u0027t feel is acceptable please contact the unbox team as a reminder this is a classical ITF meeting so your presence is loud please sign the blue sheets which we are going to circulate in a few minutes you will be on video you\u0027ll be on TV with me Tico so wear your best smile and in the room please sign the blue sheets so we have our not takers there in the room - we need yes I saw you get you Nathaniel there - ok so these are the usual links the etherpad link the first link is pretty useful this is where our minutes are being taken if there is something you did not understand probably it\u0027s good to look at this iPad to see how it was captured same thing if you came to the mic and said something your feelings interested obviously interesting please check in the minutes that what she said was captured correctly all your name was captured correctly and this is our number of links to documents that are produced pushed to other working groups which in fact inner from the work of six - so you realize that 60s does not produce so many documents but actually our work is a lot about integrating things and asking other working groups to produce documents and this is a list of things which are done here or in other groups which are actually product of the agenda isn\u0027t sure that\u0027s true okay yes I expected the agenda for some reason is God\u0027s very surprising so let me actually pull it directly from this side so just before we continue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "there is the agenda for today oops not very readable so so we\u0027ll start with the blue sheets and the presentation I\u0027m doing then we\u0027ll go through the chartered items so we\u0027ll have the six top protocol then minimal security we\u0027ll have a small talk on terminology as well there was there are few dates to go we\u0027ll talk about this effects and thankfully about the mini-mall SF it\u0027s not on the website maybe the slide I have on my nipple appear it\u0027s from my desk doctor so much what one tell me if something weird has happened with the PDF which did not catch on the agenda as you pull the agenda we\u0027ll have a pretty packed 1 hour and a half so as a reminder what I\u0027m putting on here is the the goal of the presentation so we start with from charges items 6 the protocol is in is G last call so we want to I you know inform our viewers about about the revisions charlie is going to present this we didn\u0027t have a leash I will present minimal security I think which is you know the goal is to prepare for work last call this is something that has been there has been a pretty stable marita has you know essentially two minutes to present terminology it\u0027s just an update SFX Diego will present presenters the editorial updates with discuss redness for work group last call and then we have MSF which takes a will present preparing for work group adoption and then a SF discussing how to best integrate a SF into different lot of documents so we had a pre meeting just now and Charlie I think you said to the main you list some some proposal next slide please the second part is time permitting of course so new work on global time and so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "the goal is to assess the importance for the work group and seeing you know discussing the validity of these and then to drafts by michael mullen the enrollment and has beacon and one was the roll enrollment priority and so I think those are presented together in one in one set of slides and so we want to discuss the different priority fields and there are there are some follow-up meetings following this this this afternoon that will cover some of these things that we won\u0027t have time to cover in the 90 minutes we have allocated today so next slide please so we\u0027ll obviously have to update the PDFs that are on site so are the work group stuff sixth overall and core tomorrow at the six o\u0027clock meeting we have a 40 40 minute time slots dedicated to sexual fragmentation there\u0027s a design team will report on that report on two different drafts and under they there\u0027s a draft well deadline time which is has a six specific I said time to do time stamping enroll we you know the discussions will have with Michael right after this meeting will be other words for all as well and then we should a liaison to the core working group just indicating that this draft your minimal security defines a new stateless proxy co-op option so we just issued that that statement next slide please a couple of a couple of very quick updates this is more for having this inside our slide deck so there\u0027s a six-tier simulator that was released an hour ago so thanks militia for racing this right on time it\u0027s a pure I\u0027m going to present them because it would be silly to have somebody come up for 30 seconds but it\u0027s a high level simulator that allows you to answer what-if questions and provide some idea of the performance of success all written in Python so open source on their BSD license and it it it it it captures the full sisters behavior the idea at least is to capture the full behavior so that we can assess the performance of a six there\u0027s Network behavior means TCH of course minimal security ripple 6 p.m. s-s etcetera ID can run on multiple CPU cores you can run it on a on a cluster you can lock stuff plot stuff and you can replay real world connectivity traces so if you have long term connectivity traces you can use that rather than a model for physical air connectivity militia and so the core team is those three people the the underlined names are the people who are here at IETF 101 so if you have any questions please ask wali sure Yauch were somewhere next slide there\u0027s a new release of the opener vs n reckon stack 112 release was released yesterday and runs on I\u0027m sorry it should be 12 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:05",
    "text": "platforms including the open mode B which is this this cool little platform that has both 2.4 and some gigahertz radios also a bsd implementation and the two leading leads thankfully are here as well and we actually will have an open WN session right after this this presentation as well as tomorrow from 10 to 2 next Wireshark that sector so just a state of the work they\u0027re different people contribute with dissectors for different pieces of the sixish puzzle and and so today\u0027s Wireshark dissector contains we believe most of most of the latest versions i put in in bold here the sixth of protocol 10 and object security 7 or 2 dissectors that are part of the official Wireshark release I forget the number if you want cutting edge we there are two servers that build nightly builds that contain stuff that are not yet approved by the workshop yet you had a comment yep drops tank that\u0027s actually the under review but I\u0027m sure that\u0027s getting merged soon bye bye work ok thank you for the clarification that was yes you be done next in a code lounge we took advantage of this code lounge being open to to have a couple of things lined up so from 2:00 to 6:00 today a lot of the people contributing to work group are here today so we had to pack today a lot apologize so 4 to 6 we\u0027ll have a discussion with Michael around the two drives that you\u0027ve presented how they integrate sixish with core with roll I\u0027m sorry six to eight we have in the code large again in a session about the F and drop platform that allows us to do interoperability tests and so we\u0027ll be discussing and deciding on the scope of the next interrupt test the test description and implementation which Manisha Morita will Lake will take Ramadi that will late will lead and then we have some side discussion about score score and six lo han from eight to ten will have values and friends I say friends because you know everybody who works on open source six dish related stuff is of course absolutely invited and so Charlie will present the open multi-platform Jonathan will talk about multiple interfaces Michael will talk about changing the interface to PPP and Annie H will be there to talk to answer questions about the simulator and then tomorrow there is an open areas and write integration slot for our slot in the morning as well in the code lounge at the bottom of the minutes so thank you for the minute takers to to to take minutes at the very very bottom of the minutes there\u0027s a there\u0027s a highlighted section with a wish list so if you want to discuss others six dish related stuff at those meetings just populate that they won\u0027t be part of the minutes but that\u0027s just where we want to capture some ideas that might pop up during the the the meeting now next slide please so mark your calendars there will be and so it\u0027s the official title is the second F and drop six stations reliability interoperability event will be organized Thank You Meredith reported putting this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "together it will be in Paris 26 27 June of 2018 so those are the people that are that are that are organizing it Meredith I think Fame and miel and is supported by some project so we will the scope will be discussed today between six and eight so you know if you\u0027re an implementer and and and tempted to participate please come to six Nate will discuss high level which are the drafts that we want to test during this an event and then we can start working on the test description the ID usually is to have the dezerter\u0027s already one month before the event and registration will be if it\u0027s not open right now it will be open in the next day or so so keep you know we\u0027ll keep you posted on a six - mailing list so that you can register this is organized by this is under youth under the umbrella of Etsy and that\u0027s I think the end thank you okay so we\u0027ll we\u0027ll jump right into the core of the of the 60 score specs with the six top protocol I I will ask the presenters to be to be to be quick we have a bunch of pre-meetings a bunch of interim meetings so I think so I think it will run smoothly hi this is Terry belladonna I\u0027m presenting I\u0027m presenting the six top protocol okay so this draft is in is Djilas group call and we published answering some of the reviewer comments version number ten we addressed we had several males in the mailing list and we provide responses to all of them but then we come back they come back with another questions or clarification so I will detail how I will address them not all of them but I think the most important one so you know the status so Ryan for example at the remark mentioning that there\u0027s a possible race condition in the two way and three-way transactions and would we go to clarify in the text in the ad or in the transaction description that in case that this happens in consistence is then handled by what is specified later on in another section which is mainly a pointer to another section so people know when read the draft that this will be addressed later on Alex provide quite a good list of responses to our response indeed some of them are already addressed like for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:06",
    "text": "example adding the MSF to the list of scheduling functions and some others are more clarification especially for example for figure 7 \u0026 8 where it seems it\u0027s not very clear the meaning of the description so we will we will clarify this part there\u0027s other parts that we think are belong to or are part of him please acknowledge from from 15 for but he thinks that need to be clarified as well for example is last in the last when we have a cell list in a packet in a 6p packet to know the length we have to know the length of the information element so we have to go due to the information element header and through this length we know how many cells are in the in the in in the list so this needs to be clarified and least with the short sentence in the in the draft he wanted as well some clarification on what happens if the candidate list for a not request is longer than what can fit in a packet and in this case our our position is that this cannot happen so if someone wants to add many candidate cells for an ad we it has to be done in more than one packet has to be done in multiple ad requesting some other simple clarifications and maybe one that\u0027s important is the fact that when we do an least command between two nodes we need to clarify that the response for that command is the least that are scheduled between them so it\u0027s not at least that involve other nodes but it\u0027s only between the two nodes involved in this in this transaction other points that are also mentioned by others is for example the fact that the sequence number if it\u0027s a global sequence number for all the transactions is a sequence number per neighbor is a sequence number for scheduling function so it\u0027s these needs to be clarified we will do that and we had implementers feedback as well from latte underwear some clarifications needed from an implementation point of view especially the for example saying when the scheduled cells can be used and this has to be right after they are committed in the sense that until they are not allocated we cannot use she provides as well some example text for clarification which we think is good and we will add the same as Alex before 20 fiying the sequence number whether accounts for of nodes or or a scheduling function and clarify whether clear has to be used after reboot or not and in this case we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "think it\u0027s not needed because node first doesn\u0027t know that it has reboot and if a clear is needed it will be issued by the node is communicating with finally we got this Nikolas remark on he was proposing another way to handle the add transaction his proposal is tries to address the fact that the minimal cell is congested at the beginning when we are booting and then he tried to propose an alternative mechanism so we don\u0027t we cannot lose an acknowledgment when when we install that cells we think that this is complicating the draft because this only applies to at but is not applying to the rest of operation so it would seem strange to have one mechanism particular to add while the rest of mekinese use another another mechanism for for transaction you know in a control in a position there\u0027s a drawback his proposal works well for at so it may improve the way that works but when we delete cells it would not work the next steps we have is to publish version 11 answering all these remarks and then waiting for Aug final CJ yeah okay Thank You charlie so are there any further remarks I don\u0027t know if Alex and a lot are indeed in the room or Nicola please raise those now what you know we\u0027ve had the meeting just before these are all clarifying questions so I think we can address them very easily in a version 11 that would be a it\u0027ll just address them and then pushing them you know as soon as possible essentially the is that is that that we have most of these changes already implemented Lina in the XML file so it\u0027s a matter of publishing them yeah so this is in my mind this is a going exactly as planned with the is G last call we will just publish a 11 that hopefully will be last version that will go to the IG if there\u0027s no is there one remark not as stammering - huh Mook I I just have one minor remark thank you for getting back to me about my interpretation of like when to start actually using the sales I was wondering if you could also went before you publish version 11 add a remark on I\u0027m getting nervous right how to miss how to react to missing acts because I kind of started wondering like at which point do I actually figure out if something went wrong and I kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "drew something down I could ask you after the meeting if that\u0027s correct maybe we could work on that or what that make sense yeah thank you yeah I think let\u0027s let\u0027s meet you know in the follow-up meetings discuss your diagram and then and then help clarify and then report to the mainland list if if you know if indeed there\u0027s a change that needs to be done thank you draft thank you okay Thank You Jerry let\u0027s move on to 60s minimal security good good afternoon everyone will present the status of minimum security we published oh five just before the cutoff date mostly we are resolving some last issues that were previously known as well as addressing one review by one by Thomas and the goal of this presentation today is just to go quickly through the summary of updates since so forth to get everyone on the same page and to discuss the eventual working group Lascaux so first the first mate let\u0027s call it major change that was done was to resolve to mitigate the vulnerability that was caused that would that would open the network to a resource exhaustion attacks but from malicious pledges so the attack scenario was that the join request traffic gets forwarded into the network and intermediate IP routers that use six tier scheduling functions act on it and the America may request additional link capacity in response to this traffic and in order to prevent this there was there was quite a bit of discussions on the mailing list on the best way to proceed and we decided to use the diffserv code points in the IP header to tag the join traffic and basically we decided on using AF 4343 code point for join request and using a higher priority AF 42 for join response traffic that is actually authenticated and with this it actually has precedence in the buffers if there is a collision in the routers between join requests and the drawing responses we declared out of scope how individual scheduling functions react to to this traffic but we provided the recommendation that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:11",
    "text": "basically they shouldn\u0027t add new cells and with this there was an order a new normative reference was added to our SC 25 97 the second change was related to a use case that we previously did not do not work on and it\u0027s basically a jrc that is managing multiple sixties networks at the same time it is not co-located obviously with the 6lb R and the issue here is when the join request from a pledge comes the GRC needs to identify the network that the pledge is attempting to join in order to because all these not the different networks will have different link layer keys so the when the in the join response which contains the link layer King material to J and J are C needs to respond with the proper King and the resolution was that we are we defined basically the payload for the join request and it\u0027s a C bar array with a single network identifier element where the network identifier maps by default to the pen ID in the 802 does 15.4 header but can be overridden by filter specs and as the drawing request maps to a co-op post it can it can carry payload so that is not an issue we also had a discussion just yesterday on having this carried within your query option but so I would take maybe the opportunity from having core experts in the in the room if this would be a would be possible somehow to carry seaboard within your a query can you indicate the context ratio so the context is that we wanted basically to use yet we wanted to use get instead of post in order to be able to do observes but we still need to communicate a parameter with the get request yes so custom Obon you can pay 64 encoded in a UI query all you can use the fetch method okay so the fetches and the weight of that allows observe and it allows you to send a payload with the request okay Oh fetch so far yeah and fetch I support it okay okay so I will take that as an action point to to dig into little bit more mm-hmm yeah so because we the observer would be quite quite useful for wreaking for example because we would solve the reeking problem just by putting the observe option in the request and then sorry so question Thomas so the node joins the network with a fetch rather than a post allows "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:13",
    "text": "it to add the observe option allows the ERC to reach back out into the nodes to do things like rekeying is that correct over the same secure session between desires in the then pledge that\u0027s my understanding that\u0027s great okay we\u0027re Michael Richardson were if if we\u0027re going to define rekey there then wherever we I don\u0027t think we should redefine rekey in this document if we\u0027re going to use that mechanism to define the rekey it will there will be some cryptographic statements to figure out how to secure that subsequent packet I don\u0027t think it\u0027s complicated but it\u0027s not a literal just sense of our data there\u0027s some other there other stuff that that we need to do because we have the OS core layer there right are we talking about link Larry King or Oscar a king yes those are both good questions but I was talking about link Larry King it\u0027s going to be a subsequent packet but the point is that it\u0027s not going to have the same this it\u0027s not gonna have the same contents as the first response yes right because I read over the same most core session yes it will be but the point is we still need to specify some details of what happens and I\u0027m not suggesting that we should do it in this in this document okay it won\u0027t be it won\u0027t be identical to the the response that we get because the response that we get includes the OS core bits the OS course response but it\u0027s just a simple array with different parameters okay I I\u0027m thinking that there\u0027s a that OS core has some additional response that\u0027s derived from the thing that you wrote that creates something so maybe I\u0027m mistaken and I\u0027m thinking I\u0027m overthinking this but anyway so if it\u0027s really simple and you think we can define rekey ther then we should maybe think about doing that to completeness but I\u0027m hesitant to do anything that prevents us from going to working group last call okay so I see let\u0027s discuss this is the side meeting this evening I think that would be a good starting point I the idea I had in mind was basically just to use observe to carry the key and then with this we would need also to define a timestamp like the ASN at which this key will get actually used in the network so that the jrc can hand out the keys before actually rolling out the new key in the network but yeah and then so to continue with my presentation the turrets are to try or find questions about your last save and this would allow link layer rekeying without any disruption in the network if we associate nathan yes yes with the current mechanism there would be a disruption on the network and because it\u0027s basically every node would have to request the key once it identifies that it doesn\u0027t have the link layer keys that are currently in use so it needs to fail first before that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:14",
    "text": "and then the third major change was editorial I don\u0027t normally present the de toriel changes but I would like just to get around same page Roger regarding the terminology and let\u0027s call it the standardization scope of the of the document so the the first part was the first goal was to clarify the terminology and to allow basically future specs to override the identifiers that we use we so we worked together with the terminology draft authors to define better some drawing specific terms these all the definitions are in the terminology section and in the minimum-security we basically just we just we just list these terms with an addition that is specific to minimum-security where we use also terms network identifiers generic terms network identifiers and pledge identifiers and we map these terms to pen ID and the eui-64 by default but we allow future specs to other ideas identifiers for privacy reasons or also the reasons that michael outlines in one of his one of his draft and these two terms are not industry in the terminology section i added a separate section identifiers as the text is kind of contains the standardization stuff not really the precise definitions of the of these terms the second major editorial strange was to the goal of the second major toriel change was the precise scope in the standardization scope of the document and with that I wanted to clearly stress out what what are we standardizing and basically the document is now separate and separated into different sections they talked about the configuration of the 60 stack so we go like link layer 802 15 4 we configure the IP layer or basically give requirements a neighbor cache management and also the joint traffic tagging that I mentioned at the beginning and also the application layer how to configure Oscar how to derive the Oscar context and also on the use of the stateless proxy co-option Pascal monisha for the previous slide when you say that the network is the fan but the kind of network where buildings are really ipv6 subnets and I was wondering if it would make more sense for us to consider that the whole subnet has the same security properties like keys because because people will move from one pan to the other pan inside the subnet so my wall guess is a network is a subnet it\u0027s not bad okay so a CRM so basically we need two different i\u0027m een this is an important question in terms of the architecture the link layer keys if these networks are not synchronized if you get reuse of ASN you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:14",
    "text": "have to use the different keys for each sixties Network right so even though they are part of the same subnet they need to use different link layer keys they would be synchronized because if you want to move from one tier dag to another do like different routes but then you need to keep everything SES so you our discussion is very early in six issue is that you have a backbone then the time must be synchronized between the routes understand and then they are they are on the same time exactly that\u0027s what the goal was to be able to move freely to deploy as many routes as you wanted to and move freely from one route to the other meaning it so it\u0027s one network you keep your sense of time you keep everything so that was the design that I know we did not discuss that for a long time but you know Michael Richards and I think that in the generic case if we say that different pan IDs have different keys and you need to perform a joint process on each then in the case where the keys are all the same and you can freely move from place to place then that\u0027s it adjust a degenerate situation for that my tenth one career we act you know and and oh and once once you have a mapping that says you know for pen one I have key X and for pen - I have key X because they happen to be the same then I can move from pan one to pan - without going through a joint process but if I go to pan three and it turns out to have key why and I will have a new have to have a new key but the point is that if I have those two keys already I can move back and forth with a problem and it\u0027s really just an administrative thing that he says well I\u0027ve set the same keys right l2 l2 Network key you\u0027re absolutely certain even as of Pascal said the asn.1 the ASNs are synchronized such that we never well that\u0027s what this claim is right so so if so so what we wanted to build at some point was a network with multiple do tags probably the pads would match map to geo tags and of the routes being synchronized over the backbone so that they are the exact same sense of time and like to say this same ASL they\u0027re giving it yes they might be sucrose in the beginning but because the time time synchronization process keeps the network sync inside the pan so if you have any kind of crime proof there it they might drift away from each other and because even if you try to keep them in sync they might go off and because it\u0027s a fundamental property that the ASN is part of the pan so so there is nothing yes could you could print principle do that kind of network but it would be very scary to do that because if you can end up having one x of difference there ten milliseconds that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:14",
    "text": "then you actually have you know this issues that you know you even know you don\u0027t even you don\u0027t you fail to actually the decrease you can actually decrypt the pockets of the other network because they are using different you know they\u0027re using the same key twice or the same ASN but if you don\u0027t do that then you cannot move freely inside your subnet which would be ever so the idea was the the ripple root actually propagating the time and they get it from the backbone over precise time or whatever a protocol so so it\u0027s the way we provide time is a long ripple as well so I\u0027d like to cut it it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s actually very easy to just put a different Keystone them there\u0027s I mean you have a pan you have the key settings there actually and you have a key source you have you can have a multiple keys there so dope issue that and you have to understand that if you actually part of the multiple pans it\u0027s something that is not really there is ways to do that you can actually send interpreting stuff in 15-4 but mostly you are assumed to be part of one pan in in in it in this there\u0027s cases where you are doing that yes we will discuss so Chavez presentation about global time might might revisit this discussion about synchronizing different pans later on okay so let\u0027s continue this discussion on the mailing list yes yeah yes and then about the second change I\u0027ll wrap up quickly basically there are no different sections in the document that stress the difference between the configuration of the 60 stack and the definition of the 60 joint protocol as we now call it how we map this to coop the definition of the payload and the semantics of those fields that we carry and then there is a separate section on the stateless proxy co-op option where we need core expertise basically tu-204 for a torah review and then yeah so from the next steps i mean we have another plug test as thomas said in June 2018 where we\u0027ll test the implementations so every ITF I mean we come up with new issues so okay for the working group last call a live up to the chairs so so let\u0027s so for workgroup last poll I think we are we\u0027re very very close I\u0027d like to make sure that this fetch get post thing is well understood before we go forward replies coli I would I would hate to work that the workgroup a school would create a big change like this so let\u0027s let\u0027s it doesn\u0027t have to be long but let\u0027s make sure that that is cleared up that we understand what we\u0027re committing to before we do the work in basketball but that can be done at the end of this week if we\u0027re fast in the meaningless okay there was a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:15",
    "text": "comment houston amesys on the topic of of the trend of the stateless proxy option do you expect those constraint proxies to carry at any point in time block-wise transfers or um co-op fragmentation we haven\u0027t considered that use case no the the answer to that question will indicate which which particular co-op option numbers are suitable for the photo for the photo Dianna well actually the properties of the option which go into the number okay okay so description as responsible lady here so the it said it\u0027s under ie as you review so it\u0027s actually gone through a tell each at the Oscar stuff okay what score no score yeah Oscar right like so it does it has gone I usually undergone review and this like currently being stuck and I discuss from the security ad so one of the security but eighties ballot areas another one is holding a discus and like it looks very very how do I call it complicated like the discus right so I I wouldn\u0027t get on it just go for it like you know whenever you are ready to send it off send it off like and we\u0027ll handle it at some point the reference further dawn okay like either the iesg or a DRC editor somewhere before it gets published but unless dislike like six dish work needed don\u0027t don\u0027t wait on anything sounds we I just send it off sounds good thank you so I\u0027m actually working with that discuss now I\u0027m trying to send an email to list so I I think it wasn\u0027t that complicated actually but let\u0027s see what the security is so we think we have addressed in in a version we\u0027re working on all the issues actually but let\u0027s see we\u0027re going great right yeah definitely your score is needed for so it\u0027s the only work in progress normative reference for this to be able to to be used thank you so I\u0027m going to just just to mention the fact when it asked me to present two slides essentially about the terminology terminology is just following oh not this one just following the different new terms that pop up in different drafts we did a full pass over it there are now next slide there are now 48 definitions in our in our in our terminology draft it\u0027s still a workgroup document no change requested this is just following Bullington regular work next it\u0027s okay it\u0027s just that\u0027s just a slide can you go onto the next slide please there\u0027s no more site "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:50",
    "text": "okay thank you so the Phenom do determinants I\u0027m the editor of the draft I don\u0027t miss effects well a successor analysis of 0 and it security her a tenth of the original on the flight scheduling well on this version we have replaced so they\u0027re mostly changes remove temporary sections also and corrected many typos and styling expressions which were remaining over there then we other change only the response list in fact the error management becomes how the response management and we corrected the other new new new descriptions which belonged originally to a6p ok so we adapted to the new requirements on from 6p in fact they and of least ok the one which is added Kaleigh the the sequence number would replaces the generation a check and the cell list error from this at least ok and what do on the locked and the reset were which were passed the RCR reset then we added a security considerations which is in fact this only and explains that we are not defining the speed security there we are only we have an algorithm and way of behavior and so we are we trust on the a hundred to fifteen for security and also on the security firm would describe on minimal security which are other complemented documents then a we added a section on scheduling function identifiers which was needed and this is the SFX one which has required a on the 6p draft which is figure five here and finally we like to we are going to address all the all the requirements all what was commented on the main list from lot and since I have it mean it\u0027s more than five which I requested so I\u0027m very happy I will have it on the slides in fact I will try to mention a little bit which are the items which are replaceable loaded first of all the education policies okay and which we find out the number of cells and second in on the number of cells on the cell list okay we can use the new feature which is offered by 6p to add request to provide more cells for further for the negotiation process the ones needed on the whitelisting side okay we are trying to define we tried we will address till this point also okay then - we add the non number of cells to it or a whitelist after the the ones which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:50",
    "text": "are not add for those which are not added during the out process the deletion process or the policy should be defined also for delete and our affordability and relocate and the time measurement time time measurement which is one of the most interesting things to define here we find a wide we created a wide definition because a time mode should be defined both for the to step on the three steps and suction and would be behavior the number of minimal number of cells we should be added at the beginning or the the of the woman when they never was both in fact and turned out there are some other small changes which are details on on the on a lot is male which are very very practical which I think they can address very in the next version which should be 0 - finally finally we would like to after the second version ok I would like to know if it will be possible to for a well for - to just run this this draft fine yes we will take advice from the room and then I would like to talk to Suresh about this yes if you have a minute the meetings well chat okay that\u0027s all for me questions any questions hello everyone this is Tom fetch I\u0027m presenting a Meza dropped I\u0027m the one the author of the draft and the militia and Charlie and me was present this draft on behalf of the whole team so for the MSF for the first version is published in the last year during the ITF 100 Singapore meeting and since then we have the Commons many from Josh who is the one they implement implementer of the MS dropped and this draft is implement in open-open DeRozan which is a form we\u0027re running on the hardware and also the secretary simulator which already present by a Thomas before and the zero-one working is published in March 1st and is present and today during the 60s entering at 2nd March and right now I\u0027m presenting the newest version so the first problem for the MSF is the behavior when and reachable in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:51",
    "text": "the version the first abortion is saying where a neighbor is particular and reachable we\u0027re seeing the notes master issue a 6b clear now we change it to master as a May because it doesn\u0027t seems know to require to stand a 6b clear if it\u0027s the and ritual but in case is a temporal and reachable so we choose must remain and and besides then the nose need mass to remove all the dedicated links which actually the right term here is the cells so we also changed that part so the second common is a about six a time out calculation the in the first abortion is going wrong and the right one is present here and we just as these changes to the nearest of Russian this the third Commons is for the clarifying the use of the share cell in the version first version we are trying to clarify the package going to transmit on the minimal cell and a1 the type of package is we\u0027re saying is the first SXP packet but in real case is actually the whole transaction which is the 6p package which is used for schedule the first datak dedicated cell so we also apply this changes to the zero one version and for the first common in the zero one in the first version of the MSF we are saying the MSF is optimized for the petition with a regular upstream traffic which we we indicate is from node to internet but the internet is too specific so we changes Internet to route so here\u0027s the summary of the changes and all the four comments we are taking into account and besides we update to the return code which because the 6p drops is already up to date and also fixes typos there is a a section in the MSF trapped seeing the implementation status of this draft currently we have this too imputations open double sandwiches affirm firmware and the smear later a 60 simulator which I mentioned about so once and the result of those implantation will appear in this section "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:53",
    "text": "so here is a collusion to trust we believe with drafted answers a milestone in October 2017 which is initial submission of the SF 0 dropped to the high iesg and now the draft is stable implemented and also tested in the simulation and also the homework it\u0027s also present is that during the last six teacher entering and the working group stays the changes to Kenda data for working group adoption so here we are asking the chairs for the working group options so these documents attorney fits within charter that\u0027s for sure could I could I get a feeling of the room and if many people have read this draft well that\u0027s a good number so so and out of those people do you think we are good for our global option of this work please right then well not okay so yes I mean the people in the room seems to be ready so we\u0027ll confirm that for the mailing list I guess okay thank you any any more questions about MSF so will will confirm on the mailing list the adoption thank you thank you thank you so the next presentation by Simone on ASF is you know we\u0027ve we\u0027re discussing how to best combine these different ideas so let\u0027s maybe have the discussion after you present the SF the draft as it is now ya can discuss it so I\u0027ll try to be brief on their presentation so we have some time for discussion so yeah a SF e stands for autonomous scheduling function they presented it first time in Prague or ATF 99 wait we do yeah in a nutshell yeah yeah thanks now to main to main IDs behind a yourself the first one is that you have autonomous catering inside slot frames that means that inside a given slot frame the nodes are going to calculate the slot offset that they want to communicate on on by hashing their MAC address so they know where to listen from the hash of their MAC address and then when you want to talk to someone you have the MAC address of the destination and then you know who torch that\u0027s that\u0027s one main idea and the the second the second idea is that you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:53",
    "text": "separate traffic in different slot frames for instance like your most basic example would be you have one slot frame that is dimensioned for your application traffic or unique as traffic another one that they mentioned for control of the control plane with broadcast so the difference is in version one compared to to the res version were filled from a based on input from from the last meeting and minimis discussion namely we have a full definition of how to configure the slot frames and we have a way to configure different hash function to make this there was a concern that was raised by Mike home that we were recommending sax as a hash function that we made that configurable and we have a burst mode to handle traffic searches I\u0027m not going to detail that now but that\u0027s just an overview of how you configure an ASM frame it\u0027s basically you can see it as an extended version of the standard I Triple E search from in link information elements but that adds a few fields so that you can define how the that framed our maintained so which node to hash to help the mackerel eyes off when you want to compute coordinate which hash function to use from which node that that the one good neighbors for which not to do to do so and how to filter traffic any given slot frame that\u0027s all detailing draft this is an overview of the traffic filters that tell you again how which traffic goes in which slot frame so you can segregate for instance you could choose to say oh all TCP traffic goes to start from five but then all I simply goes to a different one and then your rules can depend on different parameters that include the frame type with the rhetoric as broadcast the IP protocol the port etc configuration dissemination so the current plan is that this configuration is disseminated using the extended becomes the EBS as one more information element which is a six-piece signal command and this can be done in two ways one is so it would be done in EB is one one is to secure the eby\u0027s but that means those are not the only bits because we need unsecured bits for the initial joining so that\u0027s one option is both secured and unsecured it B\u0027s unsecure for initial learning and secure for the ASF dissemination the configuration assimilation the other option is to just piggyback the ASF configuration to every eb that are not secured which is simpler because it does not add like two different types of heebies now the user addition to interrupt militia so by securing in encrypted or in both the enhance beacons we can to Krypton yeah and we can\u0027t I mean they are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:55",
    "text": "usually authenticated but they are authenticated with well-known key rights it\u0027s no no I mean we I mean it depends how it depends on your network configuration but with minimal security basically we can you can use a key so I mean in the link layer requirements in minimal security we say that the pledge has to accept this beacon even though it\u0027s authenticated it and it does not have the key in order to get synchronized with the network it accepts this beacon so this opens the vector which we discuss in the security consideration but it\u0027s the beacon is authenticated and not with the well-known key this was I mean weird so yeah I think there is room for discussion there even encrypting would make sense right so that nothing cryptid because exactly this if you want to encrypt then you must segregate but we cannot encrypt enhance beacons because they carry ASN in the payload information element and if that gets encrypted you cannot synchronize with the enhance because yeah those would just be you could just think of them as broadcast that could be the they might have no point being v\u0027s anymore oh so you mean like okay even in that draft is the burst mode so that you can handle peaks in traffic so when you have a given slot to you in in a SF start frames you typically have a single opportunity to transmit in a restaurant frame that\u0027ll be too static from any scenarios and so if you have friends in the fragmentation you might have like 10 packets an imperfect queue that you want to dump to a given neighbor so what we add here is that once your well if you have multiple packets to send you can signal it using the I Triple E bit frame frame painting bitch and when you do that when transmitting then if the receiver gets the packet it technologies it and if it\u0027s so that the bit was set it\u0027s going to schedule a new slot at the next time time of that same channel offset and listen once more then on the sender side if you actually get an acknowledgement you can you know that the receiver is going to listen to the next slot you are going to use that next slot to send the next packet and if you keep setting that bit for 10 consecutive times because you have 10 packets in your queue then you can send out 10 packets in your all and rest for the last one you stop setting the bit and that that goes on until you your prefer is empty or until you stop doing it or until the receiver stops getting a package so that\u0027s how we handle traffic soldiers and yes so now for Thomas Oh Tina so burst mode mode in mode a has let\u0027s say a long packet to send to mode B cuts it into many fragments so it\u0027s very useful to be able to set the different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:55",
    "text": "fragments essentially in slots that are consecutive but if the PD are between a and B is relatively low then there\u0027s a high chance that on the first transmission the node a does not get an acknowledgment at which point the burst stops right so this works beautifully well with high PDRs and it\u0027s kind of a best-effort tool for for lower PDRs do you agree with that that\u0027s it all right okay totally current thank you so now for discussion so while yeah I think so too the head on the slide we discussed but I think what you really wanna discuss here is rather what Thomas was mentioning how do we best integrate mechanism from IeSF how do we merge some of it possibly with MSF what would be the burst mode yeah so so we had that we had a meeting a little bit before so you know as you know I think EF has has a bunch of cool ideas if I list them one ideas to hash the MAC address of the know you want to talk to and so you have a automatic cell you know a rendezvous cell where you know that that that node is listening that allows us to offload the shared cell on the minimal slot frame that\u0027s one second one this pending bit you so in the 15 four FCF field you said the pending bits which means hey I\u0027m I have more for you keep listening on the next on the next cells I think those are the and then you have the different slot frames and then the whole configuration of it with II\u0027s that might be a need not in Ibiza titre so I think it is very complementary to msf and so we discussed the idea of augmenting msf with these ideas but of course it has to be worked out and then the pending bid it being such a kind of powerful independent tool might be a separate document so I think you know taking the raw ideas from ASF forking that having one depending would be its own you know document that is you know generally usable and then rolling the idea of sorry hashing mac addresses into the MSF draft I think in my mind makes sense rather than having two competing SF\u0027s because I think that if we do the integration well that will perform better than if we had the two SF\u0027s side-by-side so it\u0027s kind of a win-win that\u0027s the current state of thinking we had the discussion you know this is not as almost you know Hatcher I could sure hat off any any comments about this any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:57",
    "text": "input that we should consider so I just have I was just reflecting about what you said about the pending bit and a separate document I mean so you want the mechanism with the pending bit specified in a separate document but then we will also need to schedule the cells so this belongs to the SF because it would be perfect if it would have the SF document contained that contains the scheduling part yeah so it\u0027s kinda interleaved you see and you see my point I see your point it\u0027s the better option thing yeah I think it can be defined independently so it really tells you that if a particular cell that is a transmitted cell has a flag set which is all that\u0027s all sports burst mode then when you support that cell when you implement it you are able to schedule consecutive sense as well okay so no I mean I\u0027m just saying it\u0027s a bit mixing the logic of the SF with the pending bit the humans do but I mean it\u0027s not I don\u0027t have a strong opinion I\u0027m just raising it we can we can work it out I suppose yeah yeah so but but I mean if bye-bye you know the we have now a sell options bitmap that contains 4 bits 0 into 3 \u0026 4 reserved bits I think what your would propose is to have one of those reserved bits mean burst in which case you can use it wherever and then in the case of the MSF or augmented the you know MSF if your schedule of a cell which has a bit set then it just means you can use it for personal and so it\u0027s a clean but we will discuss will discuss yeah so I think we should have a side discussion on this I think we might even have an an interim meeting dedicated to do that and and proposal to the workgroup and seeing how how all that integrates these this idea of having more burst mode was discussed a number of times long ago remaining list so the I would support that we dig these three we have on it and I completely agree that it can be separated for from MSI for yourself one thing you could do to support it in this document in a SMSF is to allow to come to get more than one cell in in the slot frame but then decide with the more bit whether other I used or not you see so that\u0027s my own so to Manisha how you split the work between this document which allocates the cells and the more bit is that you may allocate more than one cell with your mechanism defaulting on using a one the first one oh yes they don\u0027t have to be in the right order right you can have the first one here the second one here etcetera so you order them and based on your mobile then you consume them but at least you can control what is the size of the burst and how the burst is distributed over "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:57",
    "text": "channel and time so you don\u0027t have to have them conceived contiguous which I don\u0027t really like so benefiting from jch is distributing them all over the place using one and if the mo bit is set then the Bobby document will explain using two three four right so I have a last clarifying question when you set the pending bit in the next cell you\u0027re going to send the next frame for that and say neighbor what channel offset or frequency are using for that next one you increment the time of such yes and you preserve the same channel of so changed say the current proposal but what Pascal was proposing I think is worth investigating as well that\u0027s okay it does make sense it does make sense any more questions about MSM ASF if not then we enter the section the last 20 or so minutes 23 minutes about non-charter items and the first one is the global time Draft by Travis so this idea comes from the fact that we have a synchronized network and the synchronized Network uses a let\u0027s say virtual counter or we\u0027re 12 element that provides seen relative synchronization between the nodes but we don\u0027t have a global preference in time as an example if we have two different sixties networks coexisting somewhere and they are sampling data they are monitoring something and we want to time standard data we don\u0027t have a common source of time for all of them they have different absolute seconds numbers counting and we can know what\u0027s going on in one network what\u0027s going on another but not one to the other we think that having level time in a network enables many other use cases even for security so we thought okay what\u0027s the what\u0027s the best or what this is way we have to transmitted or to spread global time in the notes and make sure they keep their clocks with this global time sensor so ladies I wrote that new draft it was published the first of March so very early very soon I got some comments at the mailing list from Thomas I provide responses to that comments but I think there are aspects that maybe we need to discuss further and that\u0027s what we agreed the idea as I said is to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:57",
    "text": "distribute global time in a sixties Network my question to the group is whether you think this work is relevant to the scope and the Charter of the group and if so let take action on it the summary for those that have not read it it\u0027s a very simple idea we have an applied to note that when is when joins the network through the minimal security mechanism to join it and it gets to the GRC and the GRC apart from giving back the keys and the short address it also can distribute an optional element an optional object that contains the mapping between the absolute sequence number and the global time and it is what is defining this part here so this extension enables no joining to get from the j JC RJ R see an absolute sequence number as a reference and era counter and the same census in NTP seconds which is the number of seconds since first of January 1900 same as NTP and diffraction which is the number of Pico seconds in the last in the last second so same same notion as NTP protocol and then it can transmit as well optionally address of time source note in case this is not the GRC and link format identifying the service that is delivering the time and then least time in order to refresh that information so some the note can specify okay you have to come back again to resync after that that time and then we define a leap second option as well in case there\u0027s a leap second we need to correct it so eventually after one of these refreshes this option can come indicating a leap second has to be applied and then the graphics explains how these fields are used they are processed this is the service so did Carsten asks whether what is this link format so the link format is saying what is the you let\u0027s say the the object in the server that I have to query to get that that update it\u0027s like the URL the URI yeah in getting it so this is configurable so we can decide if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:58",
    "text": "we it\u0027s a fixed one or someone wants to configure the name as it is optional my thing doesn\u0027t heart so we several points and the mailing list I think the major elements to be discussed is whether some thomas proposed to remove the ASN and always relate so the global time to the ASN zero so this is thomas i actually retract that that recommendation yeah yeah so so the problem the problem and this is very much to terrorists point the problem is that you\u0027re ten millisecond time slots are not always exactly ten millisecond fine shots if you have a very fancy dagger root which is linked to gps or something even better then you can make them ten milliseconds but usually those things are implemented on cheap microcontrollers that have a 32 kilohertz crystal maybe you know my 10 millisecond types of is 10 point oh two milliseconds and so yes if my network started two years ago and at the your system tells me at a SN 0 that what\u0027s that\u0027s what time it is my a SN now is not a SN times 10 milliseconds it a seven times ten point zero two milliseconds and so I\u0027m completely off so I completely retract this is was a this was a error I I made so so I think it makes total sense for the update to contain both at da SN that much it is that time and then given that the SN is not always I\u0027m sorry the slot length is not always perfectly is 10 milliseconds you want to read this over and over so if you go back to your previous slide what I understand is the Pledge joins the network the network it sends it enjoin requests gets drawn response and the drawn response contains a bunch of things but also this thing that does the mapping and then that mapping is valid for wherever that ASN is and then at some point the the the join node what does it do it it asks it our way it goes to the GT address DG service time server essentially and asks for an update yes yeah the second point was sorry okay yeah the second point was what you mentioned about the drift so how we cope with the drift and I think we have to do it through periodic updates unless the node is like the dark root is has a GPS and it can ensure perfect timing and then through the optional fields you can indicate that so if you don\u0027t send the lizzie time for example you can assume that you will never synchronize again it\u0027s George hear from you on that maybe it\u0027s stupid question oh can you give us some some some examples use cases where we pledge not really meets this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:58",
    "text": "information I mean why not a SN value enough to operate within a 60 Network you see maybe three times ton data you mean area so what you want to avoid is time stamping based on a SN imagine a wireless seismic data acquisition system you know reading vibration to look for water or oil and you you tak every reading from the ADCs and you want to transmit that you can tag them with the SN but then at the server side you need to map a send to time and do this conversion with a post processing in this case having local time I think is useful okay thank you this is a use case does not pull out of thin air right this is a real use case that I\u0027ve come across so Seesmic acquisition systems where you want to measure at the same time so you want to have them you know a bunch of those that want to measure the same time unfortunately they\u0027re part of different networks right and so if those networks are not somehow coordinated if the nose will know what real time it is they will not trigger the area TC at the same time so this is a trivial trivially technical I mean technically this is trivial but I think it does answer real real things yeah Melissa so I just just to add to the last point I think this is also very useful for security for the validation of certificates as we don\u0027t want to rely that like when we receive a certificate from an Internet client or a server depending on what to know the act that it has to contain the SNSD in the expiration date Thomas again if we start going into that route to validate certificates it\u0027s really important that we trust that information because now it\u0027s a vector for attacking the whole thing so what this means is that that you\u0027d better be sure where you get the information from and so as part of the minimal security solution we have a secure session that\u0027s open to the jrc that is that we trust right this is the secure session and so I think it might make sense to have what you call the global time source we actually the GRC and so to our point before about fetch and post and all of that Manisha you know if there\u0027s a way for the GRC to reach out back to the nodes and give them a new key for rekeying it would probably be possible to have the same mechanism to give the note an update about this mapping and then it then that\u0027s secure and then we can do certificate validation with that militia so just plus one on Thomas\u0027s response also just I\u0027m looking at the this support structure now I mean in the you have the mandatory parameters basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:59",
    "text": "the first time when the pledge joins you get the time you get the global time from the DRC yeah so it means in this case I don\u0027t see the purpose of having the the optional parameters of having the node now contact a different server if you had the jrc already take care of that so it could have just a separate session with the network server and that\u0027s authenticated TLS whatever so you just need in the trust model you just need to trust the DRC and not now to extend it to the to the time server okay so you\u0027re saying that it\u0027s always these years I I think so I mean we need to work this out a bit more but I think it\u0027s I think it makes sense can we sorry guys can we this great discussion and we really want to follow up but we have only ten minutes left so oh I\u0027m sorry I would like to cut the line and let Michael speak but yes I mean we\u0027ll have a great discussion the meaningless than that and we\u0027ll have insurance so let\u0027s wrap yes so to wrap up officially so I think Charlie I think it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s too early to call for group adoption because it\u0027s a load of charge it\u0027s very simply but I think there\u0027s clear interests about this work what this means from us as Kyle is that we need to figure out how this can be rolled in there are some security things and but so it might mean adding an item to our Charter to just deal with that and then but I think you know I incur you know I think that the room clearly encourages you to please continue and we\u0027ll find a way of getting this through next up is Michael so you have both drives in the same presentation right yeah both are in the same no you\u0027re handing me the microphone oh just say I already have the microphone so the joint process we have this issue that you have to be able to find a machine another node in which to join and so we have beacons that are sent out by anything lots of machine lots of nodes and we want to be able to indicate which ones actually support the join functionality and then life is grown so what\u0027s the problem we have a big network possibly many pans we have blue networks that have you can see are connected on a backbone and we have a green network which may or may not be friendly and the nodes there\u0027s two brown nodes there they hear many many beacons from many places when they\u0027re doing the join process um if they\u0027ve tried the blue network it would be nice if they didn\u0027t try the blue network six times in a row thinking they\u0027re all different blue networks but in fact went on to try the green network because maybe the green network has really the better network or vice-versa we don\u0027t know so that\u0027s one of the issues the second issue is well it might be that attaching "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "at certain points to the network arm from it for doing the joiner enrollment process would be better than other ones because there\u0027s more bandwidth because there the mission that note the neighbor has more untrusted neighbor cache entries available a variety of different things so in the process of doing this work a number of people including my co-author on this I believe got confused by the word join it\u0027s my fault I think join is being enrollment this is how you get the keys to the network this is how you start having done that you would then decide how to connect to the doe deck so for instance I can use this laser pointer on the thing here but no one else will see it you know you this node is you here here here here and once it\u0027s got the keys it could decide how to connect many of those places malicious malicious just to respond well basically the term drawing I think we use it in the minimum security somewhere but what we mean I mean it\u0027s network access authentication plus key distribution in one in protocol I\u0027m in this that\u0027s a that\u0027s what I always thought it was yeah so the point is that there are some people in the last couple months that want to use it in the terms of parent selection and so I\u0027m urging them to pick the word parent selection for that that discussion and that and that I will use join slash enrollment from now on so that it\u0027s clear I\u0027m not very Clea lined with enrollment because for me enrollment is when enrollment into a different domain right when yes so when I don\u0027t want I don\u0027t want to go deep on the terminology let\u0027s go to Vegas I want to point out that there is a distinction between that and that\u0027s why I renamed the documents at some point just so that it can be actually sure what\u0027s going on so despite having done that there was still a claim that we would like to do parent selection in advance of enrollment and I didn\u0027t use the word join either in either statement okay so and it with that it might be that you would like to join pan one or green pan then it\u0027s sorry you\u0027d like to enroll in green pan rather than in blue pen based upon some metrics that you observe about these things so I\u0027m not terribly happy about that I\u0027m gonna say I think it\u0027s mixing too many too many things at into a layer too it\u0027s it\u0027s disclosing a bunch of stuff but despite that in my document I have put these two things rank priority and a pan priority which has something to do with join things and I fixed this overlap in the in the in the the pages but I know that\u0027s just a little bit hard to read so so the question is you know is this interesting to people and what I\u0027ve heard is that there\u0027s a number of people that are interested in this kind of stuff and I think that you need to make a case for why it\u0027s interesting and that\u0027s this part of the problem ok what\u0027s there all I care about is this proxy priority and the reason I hate care about that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:03",
    "text": "because a different different of those join proxies may have different amount of resources and it makes sense for them to say I\u0027m not really available right now for for enrollment or I am very available for enrollment you get much better service if you connect to me okay and then the other thing is that the network may just want to decide that there are times in which the network does not have capability to support things in which case it would sent that proxy priority to 127 and say although you know I\u0027m here I\u0027m a beacon if you\u0027ve got a conversation with me already we\u0027re gonna continue you probably shouldn\u0027t start with me because I\u0027m not a good Ewing so tomorrow we\u0027re going to talk about the role part which is how do we fill in these things how do we communicate these things down but I\u0027m just going to stick to the jump to the discussion and what are we here so what is it we want to put in this in this document we need to decide whether we actually want to solve all of those problems at once or not whether we want to adopt the document or not as I said I\u0027m not I\u0027m not enthusiastic about doing that but I\u0027m listen to prepared to listen to arguments for why goals and role so questions discussions I know we\u0027re pretty much out of time yeah that one a discussion that\u0027s why users can be my client yeah so so Tomas um if you come back to those slides to this light where you have the different priorities I you know I I I\u0027ve reviewed this draft and and sent you are you on the mailing list yeah I\u0027d like to have a discussion about those three or four different priorities those three priorities and the network ID how exactly is it used and how is it managed and so so I could go through that for very briefly so the proxy priority is derived primarily by the proxy node himself um I would for instance take a value which the network might express through the role for the other thing and to that I would add some indication of how busy I am whether it\u0027s based on battery or the number of neighbor cache entries untrusted ones that I\u0027m willing to devote towards a proxy activity and then I would come up with a number so that the network itself is going to give me a base number maybe it\u0027s 50 okay and I\u0027m gonna add you know the number to that so maybe I have 60 neighbor entries and I\u0027m gonna do 60 minus the ones that are available so I\u0027ll get a number between you know 64 and 128 so I might do that the Arbit just says I am available for unicast it\u0027s four leaf nodes and I think we could talk about that later on so that\u0027s the pieces that I care other people asked for this whereas this pan priority which would somehow be set to indicate which pan ID is more desirous for whatever and not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:06",
    "text": "and I can\u0027t speak a lot to how that will be used in parent selection and then a rank priority which would somehow be derived from rank and I can\u0027t say how that people want to do that those are the two numbers that I\u0027ve been told would be valuable to have finally the network ID is a truncated sha-256 of probably the dough tag ID and that\u0027s just so that you can see that all the green networks are green and all the blue networks are without action revealing the anything specific because it\u0027s just a truncated hash so it doesn\u0027t really say a lot but it does tell you that that this this transitions from a blue node and this one\u0027s also from a blue mode because they both went back to the same dough tag ID so they both announced it so don\u0027t eggy needs an easy thing that everyone knows but it doesn\u0027t have to be that it could be something else we could we could say something else that especially in the backbone router situation so so you have reserved in the code lounge a session now is that to discuss this or is it just got something different it\u0027s to have this conversation I wasn\u0027t now but I was this afternoon I\u0027m not the time between a and B but sorry right it\u0027s at or is it it\u0027s at for it oh it\u0027s okay I think for so that we so that no one would miss any cookies that was the only reason I made it didn\u0027t you know the after I want grumpy people you know okay so so you\u0027re basically reconvening everybody interested in this to discuss it\u0027s at for the code knowledge that would be wonderful if you want to tell me what what what is it you would like to do with with with these extra fields and and how you think it\u0027s it\u0027s valuable and and and I will respond to to maybe the security it doesn\u0027t work that way so that\u0027s that\u0027s the conflict that I think I\u0027ve had is that I think that the security is not doesn\u0027t if you you can\u0027t you can\u0027t you don\u0027t want to reveal that information unless you\u0027ve already joined unless you\u0027ve already enrolled on the network that\u0027s my feeling okay whether other question has been room B first any questions so kinda kind as you know in particular implementers and deploy people who implement the deployed is to be present at this at a discussion at four so so we can have that so the conversation tomorrow and role is how do we configure the priority proxy priority within the ll within the RPL dough deck okay so that\u0027s a different kind of question because it has it doesn\u0027t really matter what we put in this thing or there because I know I want a proxy party we\u0027re done thank you yeah we\u0027re out of time thank you very much please sign the blue sheets and then let\u0027s focal minutes thank you "
  }
]