[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "as well we have time as in our agenda it's not too tight we have a buffer time of 10 minutes okay maybe we can wait a couple once for the video there was food downstairs all right yes it's the food that's why so it's gonna take a while yeah very hard to compete this is not working I don't know I've not seen anything you need to plug it in your yeah no no but can either this should not work because this is you're not doing screen share we are doing the SlideShare doesn't support it there is no keyboard okay um hello everyone hello hi John we propose to wait for a couple more minutes there are beverage downstairs so for people on medical Don't Panic the PC walking group session will start but just wait for people during the room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:14",
    "text": "about like take that operational seconds but it makes a lot of sense to me would certainly be easier to progress I think we've had a couple documents recently at the top chat a bunch of other stuff like that but it's easier take all the information yeah yeah thanks thank you John suspects okay hello again everyone we propose to start this is the past competition element work group session so as you may be aware November 11 is a special day for many countries so in the UK it's quite uh significant so just as a reminder for people involved at War was nice to mention the specific date"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "okay back to our ietf business the usual not well you should be all familiar with them especially we're on Friday already so usual IPR request on the ATF processes from the ATF and you should get down to those reference if you don't our Hardware already aware of them okay mixed meeting again people are joining both from the room on mythical so we use the medical tool to manage the cues so that's the main impact for people on site remember to learn the queue using the medical tool there is a light one that is appropriate for mobile phones or laptops for Riemann participants you know the deal you you're already using the medical app whatever thanks next uh the usual pointers that you may be aware of there is no one on the minutes there it's after the data yeah um the guideline for conducts nothing new there but it's always useful to remind them so we have Harry acting as a mini taker but as usual if you want to give him a hand it's always useful especially if you were involved in discussion um for people on site name spelling checking could be useful so you may join the minutes on the link there and give Harry a run when you feel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "like it thanks um usual reminder on the process in the ATF especially on the use of the mailing list we know that from time to time there are many things happening in the background so remind let's remind that ITF process is based on touching consensus to progress work so this needs to be visible at some point on the mailing list there are also some critical steps on the ATF process related to the main Linux use so when it comes to working with last calls document adoption and so on the more people are involved the easier it is for the chairs to judge on the consensus on the support of a given work item we also manage a Wiki especially to keep an eye on the existing queue for document adoption on working of last calls there's still some backlog there but it's improving so feel free to update in cases we missed any item there the chat that may access directly from that link or also using the medical tool is already up and running and in case you need some implementation with interrupt on there are some opportunities to request a code point from the Ayana so it's been used in the past for a few drafts and please don't forget to go through that process in case there are interoperability at stake in the short term because it's easier to get a record point and modify existing deployment later in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "process so you don't necessarily have to wait for full RFC status to use that code point from the Ayana the agenda no change from the published one any one want to bash anything hope not okay so let's move on hello reviews so as you may be aware there has been some suggesting uh process about early reviews in the rooting area uh the good news is that from the PC standpoint we will use the um earlier review process from time to time so nothing brand new from the PC perspective but it good to see that it's a jewelry guideline that we are already following and that it's another that is enlarging uh we feel it's a very useful process step to consider early reviews from the rooting area perspective as you may know we usually get interesting feedback from the reviewers so it's good to see this process with an enlarged scope and we will keep on using that good step or way of conduct in case yeah documentary referring uh to balance the work on how the the chairs flushed the queues using Shepherd for the last stage of the document is a useful way so if you're interested uh please contact the chairs we'd be happy to discuss with you what document would be relevant for you to Shepherd that's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "useful way for the shepherd to to understand the ATF process especially in the last stages and for the chair to balance the work uh we thank Harry who's been already taking some of them as a shepherd and if there are other people happy to to join our PC usual shipper that would be great from the chair perspective so working good status we have no numeracy since the last ITF meeting but the work has still been progressing quite well uh three of the documents and the in the RFC editor queue one of them is has been blocked for a while pending for a spring document or no segment voting document which is work in progress so uh we hope to resolve that dependency in a short term or reasonable term uh the other ones are progressing so we can hope that by the next ITF meeting we will have several addresses published uh we have to order a documents in the iuc hand so that's him the regular level of cues in uh working group which is live which has a document progressing towards iot studies apart from that we have a recent Collision that came from the it UT so we need to join the routing array for there to update the list of relevant documents that we will point to the igut when responding to their license so it's a usual communication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "between the gsdu so nothing special to mention there if you feel there would be something to point out specifically ready to given work please contact the chairs otherwise we will probably just send an updated list of relevant documents for them we also have a reminder of the existing heli code Poitier location from the Ayana there with the deadlines so everything in 2024 for the next steps some have been renewed some are progressing towards Seas so everything's fine so far at this stage for corporate allocation okay so a little flow to my co-chair hi everyone we'll now talk about all the working group documents just a reminder in our agenda we had only one working group document with status is being presented but working group documents are very important this is where we have the consensus to progress the work so please use this time if there is any open issue that you have with these documents or if there is any feedback that you want to provide to the working group it's very this is the key work that we want to progress as part of our working group activities and that's why I have put a little bit uh time on the agenda for all our working group documents as well so let's start with the first one uh this I am a co-author and uh Julian is shepherding the uh the document the document is currently still in the working group last call stage it has not been closed uh we got comments from uh Tom patch specially related to the use of TLS 1.3 and there is a document today on the agenda which talks about how psip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "can use TLS 1.3 as well as from the Yang point of view it also has a slide there where how we plan to how we have already handled the comment that came from Tom and then uh once that is done most likely I'll ask my co-chair to progress the document to The Next Step as far as update is concerned uh apart from TLS 1.3 issue the main changes was we had a new RFC for flow spec capability so that capability flag was missing so that got added and related to security also in the igp we had a recent document that went through igp they're also based on the comments in the Ops uh section some some things was pointing out which we have updated in the Yang model as well so everything is well aligned and we hope that this document which is a very important document for p sub this is the base Yang model for us would soon see publication is there any comments please use this time uh people in the room or online if you have any thoughts we have some time for discussion on the any of these documents I encourage you to come to the mic so this is the document on which the binding set is waiting this is the uh our srv6 document uh the authors have made an update there was also a comment from midmoy regarding some error codes that were misaligned between srmpls and srv6 and authors did a pass for not just that error code but all the error codes and I think in the latest update they have handled this well so please review and we need to progress this document uh next uh because as we just talked about it that it's blocking one of the documents in RFC editor queue as well as this document has Ina allocation which is going to expire though we can of course ask for renew uh no this one I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "think maybe we cannot ask for a new it's like two things already run so we should progress this and get it out in the normal process of course we can ask ads permission but let's try to do what we promised to the working room uh and if anybody has any concerns please let us know uh the other set of documents which are almost nearing working group plus call we have a document related to Native IP uh this RFC uh the corresponding RFC is already published in teas working group uh there was uh there is it has things related to bgp and uh John in past it have pointed out to the IDR mailing list it got discussed in the IDR mailing list idea chairs gave some comments which authors have also handled so I think we have done our due diligence and we are ready to send this document and do working with last call and of course notify IDR about working group last call as well so we will do that soon the other document that is nearing working group last call is flexgrid this one has been refreshed we haven't received many comments the authors haven't made any big changes looks to be okay but if you have any concerns please use this time and let us know otherwise we will be progressing this work soon this one which is enhanced error this is one which we have kind of stuck we presented the same slide in the last 1114 meeting and I'm have to repeat the same slide again in one one five uh we have no inputs the document is still not being used by other things which is also giving a signal that we could see what to do but again this is your opportunity uh let us know if you have any thoughts regarding progressing of this document both to the authors as well as to the working group and we will be making a decision very very soon so rest of the working group IDs uh we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "have path segment document this has been updated uh mainly editorial change uh be asked an explicit question in 114 that currently this document has two ways of doing the same thing it uses PCC mechanism as well as using the tlv we have done that in the past it's still aligned but we wanted to give the opportunity to the working group to make sure that they are aware that there are two mechanisms being standardized and if there is an issue please voice it out now otherwise the author's preferences to use both the mechanisms and they have Justified that in the document as well so please review and give your feedback that's the only issue otherwise I think path segment in Spring is progressing quite well so we should be doing that in PC as well and Publishing this soon a similar document is about bi-directional path again mainly editorial changes looks to be pretty stable has a similar work is already done uh so we will be progressing that soon so I think we have a question Ahmad uh go ahead oh looks like it was by mistake so let's continue uh then we have a documents related to Sr policy Sr policy candidate path this has been mainly a refresh uh from our look it seems to be ready like we haven't had a major update in a while it was presented in the past ITF has good support so we will be putting this into almost ready for working group last call queue so if people have any thoughts comments implementers please uh give your feedback on this document soon the second one is PCC Sr again no major update looks like nearing working plus call if you have an issue uh please let us know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "so with the idea of presenting the statuses we just want to know what our thinking is so it gives you gives the working group an opportunity also to uh to align and review and give feedback timely rather than at the wait for the working group last call only better to do handle comments as a part of working group process itself a multipath has not seen an update but it is being used uh it has been implemented the implemented multiple vendors claim to implement this so which is good so we would like to progress this as well soon uh State synchronization not have been has not been updated one issue which I it might be a personal issue that I have is that document doesn't talk about uh how to set primary and secondary it says it's out of scope but anybody who's implementing it would have to have some knobs so I wanted to make sure that people are okay with it to not keep that part of as a part of the document and keep this out of scope if you disagree please use our mailing list and and let's discuss this uh the next set of documents are PC optional no update looks to be ready uh we have uh if anybody has any objection please use the mailing list we have a document stateful into domain it has expired it has not been updated but the authors have told that they have planned to make an update soon and also they plan to handle the comment related to enhanced error which I was earlier talking about that whether this document can use the extension that is uh that is suggested in the enhanced error for stateful interdomain I also there was a document in the spring working group as well which was talking about interdomain currently they focus only on a single PC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "case I did bring it up that if they want to handle multiple pce this will be the approach of stateful interdomain that they can explore so that is also something worth checking across working group as well with respect to SRP to employee policy there has been no update but this is one of the recent adopted working group documents so let's give it time for people to adjust and Implement Etc uh L2 flow spec this was the document that was moved out of the original flow spec document mainly because of IDR flow spec V2 work it is basically pending uh the flow spec V2 work to happen in IDR as well as the L2 flow spec being published in IDR once those two are done in the idea working group then I think psap work can also progress so right now we are on the waiting stage as far as the L2 flow spec document is concerned the Sid algo was adopted I think uh two ideas ago currently it's in the expired state so it's a zero zero draft that that's been expired they are even pending comments from the working group adoption stage so I really request authors to uh refresh this work like there is all this energy during adoption but after adoption authors kind of forget about the work so that should not happen please refresh your work please keep it updated please handle the comments that you received during adoption process just a reminder to everyone and some recent documents we had peace up uh path MTO when we adopted this work uh we we are we pointed out that there should be a work in Spring that should coordinate this that should Define what path MTO is in Sr policy context and both IDR document and P sub document should refer to that the new ID has been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "published in Spring it's been presented twice now uh hopefully it will get adopted there as well and then the dependencies will also be clear and we can progress the work uh in peace up as well uh we have a document iFit which is anyway on the agenda so I will leave it out for the uh for the actual presentation uh a recent adopted document we have srv6 Yang which is adopted it is of course being dependent on our peace of yank so let's publish that and then we can make progress good thing is that it's been updated and the alignment work between PCP and srv6 yang as ongoing one thing to note is the document is called srv6 yank but it has Sr policy as well as srv6 stuff so please take a note of it that the document name may not actually reflect what uh what it actually it contains both the things so please be aware of that we have a working group adoption called queue uh it's in the wiki uh please give us feedback if you have a need for for instance you are implementing it and you need code points and you want to uh fast track something your chairs are listening please reach out we try to keep our Wiki up to date so that you have visibility on where the cues are what's the priority that we are thinking so please use our Wiki as well so we have two discussions the key discussions that happen between the meeting and we wanted to just highlight that in the working group session as well and give people time if they want to talk about it further uh there was a proposal for how to enable BFD there were multiple suggestions whether we use Association whether we use some other mechanism but uh all those things are currently still only on the mailing list so I have sent a personal message also to the authors that let's bring the work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "into ITF by writing your first internet draft so that we can follow ITF process and give comments rather than like you know exchanging Word documents and doing this that's not how we do work in ITF so I'm waiting for the internet draft to be published and then we can move work forward uh the second discussion that was happening was with respect to PC operational draft this was presented in the last meeting and we did discuss what should be the next step whether we should break the document into two uh have a very clear uh standards track document which clearly says what needs to be updated and have a much more bigger clarification document that talks about uh how to apply uh PC in various different stateful PC in various different scenarios give clear description uh this has been discussed we started a thread a thread kind of mellowed down I did respond yesterday we got one more response and I see now John wants to say something as well so the queue is open thanks John scooter excuse me um yeah so I I saw your your comment and thanks for teeing this up um and went and just very quickly glanced through the current state of the draft um I we can speaking you know in terms of like sort of progressing it through the iesg we can do it either way as you know one unified draft or as two separate drafts as as you proposed through but I will say that I think it will go more smoothly I mean often I would prefer to have one draft just to progress fewer documents but I think it will actually go more smoothly to have one tiny standards track document that's very crisp and clear and one informational document that can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "provide as much color commentary and detail as you know the working group deems necessary so just you know from sort of my selfish perspective of of wanting to have an easier time of being able to move it through the iesg um I would encourage you to consider encourage the working group to consider the the two document option thank you thanks John anyone no let's move on uh this is again in our Wiki a page that we created mainly focusing on coordination with other working group and research groups so again Wiki is open to everyone it's not just for chairs and securities to maintain it's for the whole working group so when we have any work that you are similarly doing in some other working group where the coordination is needed please come and keep this Wiki up to date for instance we have a lot of work coming from beer from detnet from various different things we want to coordinate as as much as possible because as you know we have noted problem later in this thing where IDR does the same thing but in a different way and we miss out something in PC so we want to avoid those things going forward so one of the steps that we thought that we could do this coordination visibility much more uh much more better by using our Wiki so please keep them up to date I have put many documents list already but I would prefer if authors do that and they have the best visibility so please use this so I just want to send a reminder there thank you and that's it any last thoughts from anyone on any of the working group documents otherwise we'll go to the agenda nope Sean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:05",
    "text": "foreign it's very odd this microphone is at the right height almost um thank you very much get away from everybody um hey so um Russ Housley and myself are writing this draft um in net cloth and we said hey what are we going to do about TLS 1.3 and the use of net cloth and it's got some dragons and drove rightly noticed that maybe this draft pretty much equally applied here so he was like hey what about this draft so we pretty much said Hey how do we get together and do this draft together so we took the text tweaked like very slightly and over here so next so basically the motivation is that 8253 defines how to protect PCP cap with TLS 1.2 and with 1.3 you can just say something as well you can't just say next version because this little tweak that we've um defined called zero rtt and with zero RTG there are some dragons because this uh particular mode of using TLS the the the the flight of messages includes some um Badness so it's replayable and you have to make sure that you have you have the ability to like protect against that and depending on your protocol you also don't need it so the idea that you can um essentially profile a particular version of the of the protocol you can do that so that's what this draft is all about so the idea is to basically be explicit about the protocol um profile um and it's really about like mostly it's like don't use this particular mode"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "um and uh you know otherwise just basically be exactly like the other version next um so early data is really simple again so the idea is that like if you've connected to a um uh site before when the next time you talk to them you don't have to worry about reauthenticating you can just use this this pre-shared key that's been given back but if you don't do a lot of that you don't need it so don't do it so if you send this particular flight of messages you can send it quicker but don't bother if you don't need it a lot so that's really what it is if you don't have a lot of reconnection options or you don't use it that way just don't use it so because you don't have to worry about it because to set it up you essentially have to like do a lot of Replay protection and it's not needed so um and the comments during the discussion of the working group was actually really interesting because Tom was like hey you don't need this and he said a lot of very strong things which I don't agree with everything he said but I was kind of like all right he's kind of right um at the end of the day it basically said like hey if you're going to run this you don't if you're going to run TS 1.3 you could do it you just don't need it so actually we reported the comments from this we're in group adoption back into netcomf and the net conf working group was like okay that's great well let's take those words so at the end of the day the drafts are actually aligned already and the work that's in netcomf is actually going to go out for working with last call very shortly so it's kind of a great way that it worked out and then Cypher Suite so that they're slightly different um in the way that you actually specify The Cypher Suites you specify less which is okay because the actual like mandatory Implement cyber Suites went from like a long list to like four and so we picked less and that's better because it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "you know the the ones that were picked by the um overall uh ITF or better but there's less to pick from and that's in some respects better because that means people concentrate on the ones that you're picking and so go with those and and there's there's this little option about forward secure forward security which people may or may not care so the idea is that um if the force security is that if you are able to capture a connection or a sequence of of flights of messages and then later on break it you can't later go back and break it so it's good that you're able to ensure that the things that are that were done in the future are all right so at the end of the day the protocols is better it's more provably secure and that's that's next yeah so Yang module I don't know if I want to hand over now let's do that okay just one slide since I'm the author for the piece of Yang let me just explain what we did here so uh basically we use the netcon document which has the all the groupings related to how we configure TLS client and TLS server and that grouping basically says we can configure any version of TLs but we are going to recommend that you use TLS 1.3 and we know that in psip there are still implementations that are currently using TLS 1.2 we want our Yang model to be able to be used in those scenarios as well and we just want to clarify in our document that yes it is still possible to do that you have a feature tls12 that can still be enabled even though the Yang model says it's not recommended but that doesn't mean that it cannot be used so we added this description a specific section on how to use how to handle this TLS version issue in our precept Yang"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "and hopefully via this update we handle the comment that Tom pointed out during the working group last call of young so this was pretty good conversation led to a new document as well as clarification hopefully that would help people who are implementing and using a young model in future thank you so I'll stand up here for like one more minute while people want to ask me questions and if not I'll sit down thank you so I don't see anyone queuing so I believe that this is a straightforward uh draft on this is very great that it shows that already while reviewing some existing PC documents so it's good to catch up with the security level of the ATF as a result uh I'd be happy to see a show of hands for the Abduction of the document and the progress of this work so if you agree on support this item raise your hand if you oppose don't raise your hand and ideally if you don't care just don't respond let's give a couple of tens of seconds I see a hundred percent support so far which is great in any case it will be resumed as I made English questions so it gives yeah a great idea no one opposed okay so thank you for responding I think we can end it right now it gives a clear Trend so we will send a question to the mailing list about the adoption of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "important document thank you Sean so the next presenter is who ammo who's coming to the mic hi everyone I'm Juan from future today I'm going to talk about a pce for Miro bunting next page pce has been extended to distribute the Sr pass to network nodes that Sr pass may contain bonding so bonding here means The Binding sheet Plus or associated with these sort of seeds that list of seeds is for another pass segments contain a planting seed PC will send the data bonding which is a contains binding seed plus these services to the node for example here we have a path from pe1 to P1 to node n and then to node P3 P6 and then to p 4 so basically this is Sr pass contains blue segments and green segments and then blue segments those cool reading segments are indicated by bonding which means that PC we're also an abundant to know the N so that binding will contain an abundance seat B seed plus the city list here which is S1 and S2 so when node n receive a package with a binding seat note n will replace that button sheet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "with that list of seats which here is node n will replace brightness seat with S1 and S2 so SL1 S1 S2 determines that Grim per segment so note n well sit in the package along that green past segment and then the package was sent along the path green per segment and then blue segment to the destination PE 4. so here when a Sr pass contains abundant PC we're sending to Notre n so in order to provide protection for the failure of lot n with the binding binding seat PC will be extended to send the funding information plus the load ID of load n to the adjacent node of node n so with this information the adjacent node of node n can provide protection for the failure of load n regarding to The Binding seat so for example with Note any fails node P1 will detect the failure of low 10 go to P1 will pop up the seat for a lot of n because those rain is already gone it's failed and then but for the bundling seat on No 10 P1 will just acting as a proxy level then replace that abundance sheet with the list of seat for example S1 and S2 and then send the package along the S1 as S2 for example to P3 and then P3 version packaging along the Korean paste desolation here uh in the last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Angel Stone Research some questions regarding regarding this one so so first question is that so for the adjacent node so that node need to figure out something for example if a segmentalist for example S1 S2 here is adjacent is adjacent so in this case because as Jason city is local so P1 need to do something so in this case if second list for bonding contains the adjacency basically the first one which we just considered a we just care about the first seat whether it's a adjacency so here we assume S1 is adjacency in this case P1 will figure out the remote note of that adjacency here so P1 will figure out through the adjacency adjacency to get the the remote node ID or remote node seats which is a p P3 and then P1 well replace the banding sheet with the notice leader of a P3 and then for the package to P3 and then P3 will use whatever is the weather is the adjacency that will notice it of S2 and then send the package along the path along the green pass segment and enter the destination so that's one question raised by Angel Stone and then I just answer here uh do you have any questions for regarding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "this part good good foreign yeah so I saw your reply this morning thank you for that um I think I've got a few comments on just the general solution so what you commented on yeah totally great makes sense in that situation thank you thank you um I think though it creates an assumption that P1 in this situation actually has the capability of pushing the node Sid to reach in this case for example P3 as well as the remaining SIDS that are in the stock being provided by The Binding Sid so imagine if your binding Sid is instructed with five labels or five SRV six labels the assumption is now P1 can do you know four plus one to work around that or three plus one to work around that um so I I think that kind of creates an implied assumption that the neighboring node has the sufficient Hardware capability to push all of those labels of the path and so I think this brings probably a more fundamental question of if we're trying to protect n and The Binding Sid do we still want to route along the complete path that the Bindings that has taken or do we want to rewrote where the writing set terminates because you've got those label in position on that neighboring node and so it could be possible that your neighboring know that you're transiting through P1 in this case actually can't carry all of that traffic that The Binding set is providing which is why The Binding sit exists in the first place um so it kind of leads then into I think another open question of or another open challenge is that the assumption is P1 can resolve where n is going to go right so the local adjacency said I agree with you if it's you know an igp adjacency SID it can figure it out from the igp information but if it's in a different domain it can't if it's a epe sid it can't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "you know in the future there could be other segment IDs where it just that local P1 can't know what is the neighbor Beyond so I think it raises the question of should PC actually tell P1 what see what Sid or stack of Sids it should use to actually protect that node Zid or sorry protect that binding said so for example instead of telling P1 here is a binding sit of your neighbor here is the path of the binding Sid instead here is The Binding Sid here is a list of Sids that you shall use to protect that binding Zone yeah that's a good question yeah so right now we assume that igpe will distribute those kind of adjacency and then the P1 figure out that one and so you you imply that maybe pce can do something if the the planting segment is contain the adjacency and then PC may just figure out the node seat of a P3 right so that notice since then notice it to P1 and that is P1 can make Poise work easy right is that your comments yeah and it yeah and it handles and it handles other situations especially with multi-domain or pcecc and just situations where P1 doesn't know where that said is going to go and and it and it opens up the door for PC to decide like as I mentioned instead of rerouting to the next node you can rewrote somewhere Downstream which can even be traffic engineered right it or other binding sets it opens up a lot more flexibility um and I think after reading the email this morning and I'm still planning to reply to it and then coming to this working group I think the solution of protecting the node that's carrying a binding Sid I'm worried that we might be repeating different you know descriptions in both PC and IDR and so I'm wondering if the solution should be taken out into let's say routing working group or even spring and then worry about the encoding after the fact because the encoding between bgp and P sub is going to be very similar situations it's just how do you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "actually want to solve the problem and I think in our discussions right now I think there's a few different ways to solve it and I think there needs to be some consistency on how we want to solve it yeah in fact that this is a we have a protection drop in Spring and then child suppose uh I think in order to provide protection for node failure responding seat and then we need a PC or igp IDR extension that's why we come here we already have a draft for protecting the planting seed in Spring group okay and then we need and then we did a support from the other a political extensions okay such as pce I might have missed that I'll take a look for that but uh I think clarifying exactly how we want to protect it and then deal with the encodings after because there's some weird quirks here especially when you start talking about multi-area multi-domain different types of Sids if if it was just node SIDS in the stock and if P1 had enough Hardware capacity that's not a big deal but unfortunately that's not the reality sometimes so anyways thank you yeah thank you for your for your comment on the suggestions I think this is for the SS Angel mentioned that this is so for the node n is which in the domain is easy so if that note n is a border node yeah that case is even tougher because border node and then the previous over the uptrend node do not know the past segment because that uh domain so in in that case so we needed to have equals production because that no 10 is an eagerness node so we need to have a backup equals node"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "to be assigned to protected node end and then we have those kind of a that's the requirement you you said question so if node N is a border node and then the board node we have a backup border node and then in that case and then backup buttoners know the information about another domain with same information as another n um I think it's probably debatable whether or not it's considered an egress node because it's still an end-to-end tunnel and The Binding Sid is still part of that end-to-end packet that n10 path there's no de-encapsulation at that point so at that point when it's leaving you know a domain it's still part of that tunnel so it's not necessarily egressing the tunnel it's just egressing the domain or the forwarding instructions where the control plane in that domain has a view and perspective of what's beyond but it's still in the same tunnel so I think the egress protection is more applicable onto egressing of a tunnel man yeah you're right you're right yeah the technology is another yet because these are final touches Nation this is the Border note yeah more personality you're right the next page so here is the extension to species first we have a need to have a new capability so this capability is for distributed binding information for protection basically in the past setup type capability we need to need to include a new PSD type for distributed funding for protection and then we may have a special TRV which contains the parameters so if we have a PCC then we just Define new new beat which is B beat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "that's a b bit indicate the capability for distributed bonding for protection next page for distributed bonding to the adjacent node so because this is not a really funding so we need to have indications to indicate that this is just for funding protection so here we have extensions to RP and the SRP object so in this object we have a percent of POV so this is tlv will contain a new password PhD type which indicate that this is just for distributed abundant for protection in addition to that because we also need the ID of that that post will fail the node so we just have us TRV contain the ID of that possible failure so next page I think that's all and then we would like to uh have a comment from all of you let me put myself uh one comment as a contributor uh especially I think I agree with a lot of things that Andrew mentioned so I think we need to take at least the core of the work in spring or in rtgwg where we describe how this thing process needs to work and there are various options as well like should we only node IDs needed do we need destination do we need path do we need uh what we are protecting what all the information that we need to exchange from a PC or from IDR point of view that we need a little bit more clarification on that and then once we come to the extension uh that work of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "course will belong in the PC working group and even with the extension part uh we can debate on what will be the best way to encode this information but that is premature because we don't really know right now what all information it is if it is just node ID maybe what you have makes sense but if we also put paths and all so what you're currently the encoding by adding this tlv and RP may not make much sense so I think let's postpone that discussion and first focus on at a higher level what all information that we need to pass to make this mirror binding work John John Scudder um actually I think all I really want to say is plus one um please do the work once in a group that has the uh the core expertise to get the architecture right and then it'll be really easy to do the rest of it here after that's done thank you Sean thank you okay thank you everyone thanks thank you Emma next next presenter is Giuseppe about iFit to Transmission in the working group introduction hello everybody this is an update about this draft that has been adopted just last ATF so next slide I'm present I'm Joseph I'm presenting on behalf of the co-authors so yeah few words about the background and motivation so with iFit with the notes the data plane on path Telemetry in particular in c2im that is defined in the RFC 9197 and Alternate marking that which the standard track documents are in NFC area editor 2 the 8321 bits"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "and 8889bs so let's say the data plane methodology are stable so here we want to define the psap extension to distribute paths carrying iFit information so a PCC can indicate which I fit features it supports and the PCA can configure the specific behavior at the PCC so the effect attributes can be generalized and include as tlv carried in the ls in the lspa object so next slide so the draft defined two tlvs basically the capability advertisement tlv and the attributes tlv the capability tlv is an optional tlb in the open object for the capability advertisement of psap so we find we Define Five Flags according to the RFC 9197 and the alternate marking uh in addition uh we Define also the attributes dlv that provide the configurable option for the features for the fit feature and it can be included as an optional tlb in the lspa object as I also mentioned before and so the five sub tlbs that are defined are the four tlv for nc2m and one for alternate marking more details of course are within the draft time I missed here the details because we already presented last time so next slide yeah I just this is maybe the last slide I just want to summarize the changes from the zero zero version because we had some comments uh after the adoption and during the adoption so we we addressed this comment uh we clap mainly we clarify that the head end needs support the if it capability and it is supposed that at least two nodes on the path support uh the fit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "capability we also clarified that the fit methods are more mature for srv6 compared to SRM apls in fact in in the implementation of uh bought in c2im and Alternate marking for mpls are still under discussion with so uh there was a comment to remove all the references to this draft that are not stable so we only uh keep the references for the srb6 implementation that are uh the the references are quite stable for example the application for alternate marking is again in RFC editor queue and also the the eom extension for a pv6 is in isg review so we can say that this methodology are stable then we also clarify the relation with the IDR draft uh you know that bot psap and bgp can be used to instantiate Sr policy so it is reasonable to have the same mechanism for both psap and bgp so we are also trying to keep the two drafts aligned uh and we also clarify the methodology with regard to the framework and then we had also added additional editorial comments so next slide yeah [Music] um we found let's say this is a document relevant to enable bottom and Alternate marking control mechanism of course we always welcome question and comments to improve the document and to keep aligned with other work thank you secrets any question from the group for Tuesday pay no no thank you Elizabeth okay thanks for the follow-up so the next presentation is for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "uh control identifier space by Han okay I've given okay you should be able to okay hello everyone my name is Hunter and I'm going to talk about the psap controlled ID space an extension to the PC yeah uh as we all know we use pce to allocate the srmps enable and the srv6 seat but this route assume the naval and ID range to be used by the VC is normal and set on both PC peers so our document specified the intention to support the advertisement of the IDS base to the PC to control yeah uh basic news it drops is very simple to to delegate in the ID space the ID space TRV is included in the open message and the etlv corresponding to each ID type should be included only once in the open message if it appeared more times only the first one will be used and we Define two kinds of ID controls with TRV the first one is for srmps enables it's called enable control space and the second one is for SRA 6 C functional ID space is called the functional ID control space yeah the the first one is the naval controls with TRV it contains the following Fields the first field is the number of the ID blocks and the flags is zero and follow the apply the various the enable range and for the srv6 function ID control space TRV we also have the following"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "structure and the first is the number of ID blocks and the flags there is a one bit is indicated if the location and locator field is included and followed by the C structure to describe the the structure of the seed the the same structure is shown in the next side it's including the the Nokia tournaments the functions and arguments and then we have uh see the range and if the air bit in the flag is that the locator will included if the lbs is not set that means the the seed function range is applied to all locator and basically it says it's a Samsung update from the NASA presentation we expanded the sra6 pass ID to various function ID and we add the C structure to describe the the seed and we add the block of field for better expensibility then add me as a new new co-author so we are I always we think the content is stable so we are asking for the working group adoption opposite draft the document is already in the working group adoption queue based on the past then thanks for keeping it up to date is there any concerns from anyone on this document any comments chank go ahead are you in the room foreign so thank you for putting presentation it's really clear and as a course I think URI the the content is stable so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "we should ask for working for adoption and thank you for all guys for listening thank you same presenter for the new one you know same same somehow change able let me do it just wait a second and then I'll give you control share and then let me pass control now you should be able to control okay so my second draft is about a pce initiated IP IB terminal yeah basically the motivation is that in the sty use case ipturnal is needed to Traverse the one and pce can use as a control protocol to initiate this IP terminal and this is also a simple draft basically you need to divide advertise the the hypertonal compatibility and to set up maintain and tear down the IP kernels initiated by the pce uh since this is only the first draft we do not include the internal stage synchronization and various timeout process session final process in the in this draft yeah uh the PC initial internal capability TR we designed as follows yeah uh there is a 32-bit Channel type if a PCC can support this kind of Kernel One beta is set we pick the we pick the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "mostly used terminal in the in the right table foreign with design the following message the first one is the PC internally initiate message to initiate alternator tunnel PC is sent to the PCC and there is a flag that we indicate if it's initiate what it did and the second one is the PC terminal update message to modify the parameter of the kernel it's also sent by the pce to PCC and the third one is this internal report message is for the PCC to report the state of the terminal to the pce and this message compromise the SRP object it contains the ID to coordinate it between the initiate and Report or the PC error message under Arsenal indicates that in initialization origination and the message also contains Eternal objects yeah for the kernel object there is many some TRV for the first one is the internal ID TRV contains the source stress that designation dress internal type internal ID and the second one is the internal name TRV and the third one is the internal parameter it depends on the ternal type we reuse the tunnel parameter from the bgp Eternal type so it's basically in the same format and the terminal attribute TRV contains the metric or the T metric The Matrix is used as a kind of the T metric used as the the requirement and the metric is used for the for the report yeah since this is only the the first uh basically the first round we would like to solicitate the feedback on this route"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "for example which type of alternative support in this uh in this kind of five internal we currently use this DGP tunnel registry but is the first comprocessor registry or we can pick the mostly used and do we need to add the thermostat synchronization in the in in the in the future yeah that's all any comments Andrew I um I guess the root question I have is why use piece up for this if there's no path to compute you can sing called The Eternal as some kind of the past you Traverse the one because there will be multiple choice but I mean like couldn't you just use netconf to provision this or just SNMP or just any one of the flavors of mediation protocols yeah it's possible but we can also use pce to do that right I guess I just see what is the benefit of using psup to do it compared to something just you can program anything with netcon for example so it just seems like a lot of defining to be done for just essentially at the end of the day just basic configuration because you're not doing make before break path calculations you're not doing state tracking in order to react to those States information so it just it just feels heavy to me yeah when you create a tunnel you can attach your team metric to request that you create a certain internal correct bounding to this T metric there's kind of the use case so okay maybe I'll have to go back here thanks okay then go ahead so I think it can it removed yourself from the queue I think Robin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "foreign years ago because but later we found that we found identify this the new user cases that use the ip800 to transfer this the network for example in the sd-1 use cases because maybe that's used to utilize this IP tunnel to Traverse this underlying Network so that we need to initiate this IP tunnel by the controller so we think use the pce that is has achieved this better sustainability and performance so we we start this work and the comments will come okay okay then go ahead as for the presentation uh in the introduction section of the draft uh the the use case or what is uh what is mentioned there is that this tunnels help in uh addressing the label stack depth issue MSD issue uh uh I mean it's different from what was presented today and my question is uh uh how does it help there and is that really the use case yeah there's also another use case but we think that C1 is more relevant now you know okay so what I would suggest is uh if you could uh kind of put some more text to explain or Justify those use case and how these things would uh help there uh that would be helpful I I concur with what Andrew mentioned uh so we need to probably help understand uh if this is really needed or a right way to go about it thank you okay foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "thanks for the kittens suggestion in fact we had this another draft used to talk about this the application scenarios and free work of this tunnel segment so later we send this in the main list for references so here are there so we can discuss more about this possible use cases foreign any other comments let me have myself in the queue then uh thanks for uh thanks for your comment but uh I think the motivation is needed in the draft itself we need to clearly specify why we need this functionality and not just because why we need IP tunnels that part is clear basically but why we need to use psip as the interface for that IP tunnel and that we need a Clarity uh before we progress this then when it comes to encoding again we have to make a choice is do we want to go through new messages for this or we have path setup type we already allow path setup type to handle srv6 which is sort of an IP tunnel in a way so do we need a brand new set of messages to go or should we use our existing Machinery that already exists in psap if we want to continue with that work but first thing is like I think we need consensus on whether we have enough motivation in this working group to do ipt tunnel wire reset that would be my comment but thank you for your work anybody else this was our last presentation anybody else any other business I think you should close so we've reached the end of our pch in there for today so to see the end of the ITF week here in London thank you for attending"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "whether it is remotely or on site and hopefully see you in Yokohama thank you thank you everyone safe travel thank you thank you cheers um [Music] consumerator yes um so I was on it yeah"
  }
]
