[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "come on Eugene [Music] [Music] [Music] you can get started okay welcome huh this is the DMM working group meeting I\u0027m shrinking overly so today the agenda for today I think before we get started a few things so please look at the IPR policy there are RFC references 3 3 9 7 8 and other documents please look at please review them and there is note well this meeting is dominant of you IET of rules and regulations you need to be familiar with these please be please review this material and a few other things we need a note-taker place any anybody volunteer note takers please any volunteers Dave thank you so much truly appreciate it yeah so Dave Allen will take the meeting minutes yes yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:16",
    "text": "yeah on the thank you okay and one more anybody else Carlos no meeting with no Tigger yeah anybody else all right so few you know updates these are the working of documents the first one is the use of plane protocol and architecture analysis on 3G 4G system yes just a Hummer from entity I\u0027m a cosa of the 5g user prey on Isis draft so as you may know 3gpp over they started released 16 in say to the city city groups we will finish the release released 16 in London next much so we the authors would like to decide the range of the goal of this work so we continue to update the draft within ladies 16 and after that we\u0027d like to proceed it to the next step we believe that this draft will be help for many idea first to understand 5g architecture and use a plane protocol so if possible we would like to request working working group last call informations draft I\u0027d like to know your opinion yeah sure I think solutions also they\u0027re all straight my opinion so yeah I understand the status of that work in 3gpp for release 16 right so I think we need to look beyond I think the way I look at it is like you know so what we can do in the release 17 timeframe that\u0027s that\u0027s my person I\u0027m not we have the working group but Suresh is also there let\u0027s hear what he thinks with ya subscription responsibility right so I think like you know it requires some kind of review from the working group right and one thing we can do to speed up the process is we can send an LS right like if the working group decides to send earlier since statement we can write one and send it right but I cannot see anyway this will be done by March right of 2020 right like so because there\u0027s like reviews from the working group complete the working group last call okay then it needs to come to me get the Directorate reviews go to ITF last call and the holidays Christmas holidays come in between right so it\u0027s very unlikely that this is gonna be done before that okay we can do as fast as we can but I think if you want to inform the 3gpp officially I think the best way is a liaison statement but but one comment before I give it to settle yourself so it leaves the dependencies from the spring those are in a good shape right at least compared "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:17",
    "text": "to previous IETF 105 now we\u0027re in a better shape yeah right okay yes I think this case on our intention is a kind of the year the others work based on the end of the state of the end of the March not to complete during this procedure or the ITF some procedure so I the Kokua this time they\u0027ll be so we won\u0027t also want to put the milestone two to finish the walk based on the busy 16 if we they need to think the force analysis based on the 17 that\u0027ll be another chance to work so if it\u0027s like wouldn\u0027t go process yet make sense you can get it done I know if you need a following lady 16 maybe 17 so we can start as a new work okay now let\u0027s go the the status of different working group documents we talked about the user plane protocol you I don\u0027t believe your presentation slots for this right now for this one right the next one is the signal routing for ipv6 for mobile user plane I think there\u0027s a good amount of what went in but any update on this son this is a presentation start we will review that it in your presentations pocket then the FPC document I think this is a really a bizarre situation it\u0027s a credible amount of work went into this FPC document but overnight it\u0027s like a turning out the lights write complete silence on this FTC stuff right so I think the documents are expired and you know the FPC work was on Charlie\u0027s request and essentially we split that up into the young the young portion was separated out right but I think we need a waveform for this so I think you will give an update later for five minutes update our yes sorry I tried to summarize the yeah the update on the Guardians PC I end up with this meeting so so let\u0027s discuss on the how to proceed or the fate I think we need to one way or the other closing that\u0027s that\u0027s the gist we did these are the document that have asked what can you last call I think you know one the migration is going towards Mike I think the the chair the shepherd note meets we yeah so for both of these actually the first to like the the shepherd right up is very bad it didn\u0027t summarize pretty much anything about the working group process and I really cannot put this in front of the iesg in that state so I\u0027m whenever you one of you get a chance to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "update the write-up I\u0027ll try to scale a little shack and and carlos has been really good catching up with the Directorate reviews and addressing them so so I think it\u0027s good and the last one it\u0027s RC so it\u0027s like you know it\u0027s it\u0027s a it has a number it\u0027s a number yeah so so it\u0027s pretty much done deal right and it\u0027s one of the first ones with the three format of XML - rc3 commentary yeah so he wrote the the shipper notes on essentially in just a little bit more detail right now because it has nothing about the technical summary because like people who read the Shepherd write-up will not be kurta or a C number it\u0027s in the still the publication queue but it pretty much it\u0027s a done deal it\u0027s done yeah good stuff Congrats to authors on that one and I think now you go to the the individual work items right I think the first presentation is from Pablo I believe [Music] Pablo if you can also it\u0027s kind of a you know that\u0027s what change yeah this is a great this once okay so good afternoon everyone so I\u0027m here percent elated for region of productivity at sorry six more unusual play since the nice meeting they\u0027re happening to release its so that that first revision was the relationships you were reasonable 66 or meet any flex resistant to do set my rocking and Eric\u0027s version which possibly a drop there\u0027s an employee base six months ago such good progress is not we\u0027ve decided to remove it and then they the next step on the revision with one stories now seven more person one so here in the first changes that we have added a rocky look so the rocking mode is a mode that we have been using thought several demos where we are just which is actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "different world where that\u0027s simply it\u0027s just like they give you the signal routing gateway because we are just like we overlaid 476 with song and then we are another star good way to reach another you care which is more changes that we also happen derivation of seven we beat a lot of editorial updates changes to the terminology some changes to improve readability and unabated referenced and then the last important point is that we have removed the support for an instructor to use so as you know in 3gpp there are depending PD users 346 either veteran instructor due to some changes that we have having as hobby six particularly the conservation of Internet videos now we can no longer support a Star Trek videos this could be done I will be to allocate a new Internet Protocol number this content year first eight address a requirement from the operational community to support it that we are open to it or feedback salutes and then the Yoast of how the wheels participated in the hackathon this year we had a lot of progress so finally after several hackathons we have finished the DVDs lamentations so we have a coupie implementation of the code base in this truck and we have submitted a disco tutorial sucks when the next weekly release that will be generating all this good would be available to everyone and that said we really want anyone to do more comments I would be the draft even though the progress being relatively stable we believe that it\u0027s ready okay thank you so from your point of view it\u0027s pretty much in a great shape right all the changes any dependencies whatever other groups to this document like yes so that the biggest of NSA\u0027s do you have a section of your programming where we also proceeding with ask okay so any questions comments so how many people have read the latest version of the document okay okay we need the few more reviews common area my I can do one review yeah thank you Thank You Carlos so this is a a new talk your topic this is uh it\u0027s still a I individual ID "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:20",
    "text": "right now use the plain message encoding zero zero version yeah I think yeah if you can introduce a copy what is it this is the new booty I use the previous is a four e yeah yes the a motivation so sweetie sweetie PB is a trainee to suppose here user premises associated with you at the TTP youthful so in K in the case of GSL switch to user day so this message are also required with the user frame interlock with the HTTP you so instead it has a community definitions so author field has a capable to indicate the a different profile you it is SAT there also oh isn\u0027t it here we have the capability to not see a user community has a capability to provide the a metadata to see a polygon so this capability LTS rate should be leveraged to not hear you the pregnancy include it\u0027s a bit no so so and also in this approach so there is no internal header or extension headers totality any user privacy yeah how to do that so here\u0027s the gdb message format so or each user per message is indicated with the a message file so for example so include request is using the other message said and could apply is using it to as a message that yes yes yes single headed so single header has a happiest definition so currently there is no defined usage a usage of destructive so obviously in university eternity a message that put here mobile user Pegasus so she I see a encoding of the atmosphere so we are using Apple bit left like most pulpit to in Kodiak user communities so pizza or it won\u0027t hear me - Sophia honey right and it would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:22",
    "text": "erotic papyrus work and this week and also some of user Craig message recoil is here some additional information arrogance so all this information element can be encoded with the SLS Tier II so we are proposing to at IPS container key away as a little XD away and also this theory can can see a multiple of V DP acidity I eat here with so he is switching with hear me so oh yeah it\u0027s a sub clearly obvious VDS container theory so however 3d PPI ETA V should be full with the SVG specifications so user per message can be carried with the insulate aside what is you know the in order to carry a user pay message although it is a bit narrow so instead it s on Heather must is sustained here although inside of TSA which never so however so if enabling tear PSD so or in select header is ophtho as he apparently signals so in order to avoid here this problem so one solution eg a PSP must not be used in das a bitch now in order to keratea use a pregnancy or if in identity a PSP so another internet should be added to Cali ta use of a message on top of Gaea author ID which in a war a celestial yep so OT our next step will like to adapt here this dots with your walking the dog okay MA hi my name is Omar from future USA I read the draft what is the main use case I didn\u0027t understand for this like you know you won\u0027t remove gtp completely with us our v6 so some parts are removed with the current last call document right I think some part of the gtp with that\u0027s our basics this is a complete elimination of gtp you is it character what is it TTP 60 dropping no [Music] Nativity period for however so DD b 6e neatly detail ATT here you\u0027d follow so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:25",
    "text": "we have to keep the required information inside of it okay also my was just like it\u0027s not written what I was thinking is there any use case you are thinking to send the message with the gtp encoded message right from the UE itself is there any use case kind of that kind of thing you are thinking or this is not from the you a possibility right with this you have the real possibility you extend all the way till understood correctly is to you know all the path management and all of that stuff they want to put it back Suresh suresh krisshnan Just Answer Roma the reason why you don\u0027t want to do that is like the spectrum is very expensive right so you don\u0027t want to put in all the headers from where the air interface right that\u0027s why the gtp is starting from the base station towards the core network not from the UE that\u0027s correct but you know I think that\u0027s only a service six the only solution that\u0027s really all the way can go to their UE if you want it right there is no other solution so but yes spectrum issue I agree with you it\u0027s a good point I thing you know you can explore int for the use case so any any other comments questions yes just I think the information that gets carried on gtp either things like the end marker etc they\u0027re only of significance to the G note be that stuff does not need to be extended to the UE so any stuff it does need to be extended to the U is done over the than the PD CP layer so with respect to currently you have the pad management that n marker in marker it\u0027s not so but if you take the the equate questi equal reply gtp is number of options and all of them how do you plan to carry all of those options as I think this is a logical extension to the earlier work I don\u0027t see any problem I think this addresses rather completes the whole world but we need more feedback for the working group and also you know from the ad and you know to make this right I think my other suggestion is engage without keeping the world can like essentially like you know we can in our trade off the document okay thank you any other questions call here done yes that is it thank you next one is a the transport network considerations I think so this is not a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:31",
    "text": "working document it\u0027s a proposal and position with John McCauley in this topic is transport network Abed Ruby Papaji it\u0027s looking iron okay maybe a slight smell me if you hold it now let\u0027s give a subpoena okay just a quick recap of this wrap this has been presented first in 2018 I give honor to 0-0 version because later mean problem and strong and solution also it started updated in after updated and present in the night economy and a major update happened in last night here with the original solution and two approaches that we presented to put a framework so they were multiple options proposed to canopy MCRD proposed like a header and a tent in CID they were sort of discussion happen and they\u0027ve got a lot of inputs not only from here and also from peaceful and also offline discussion so what we have done with this virtually is this very unified locus and finalized path forward for reducing the staff and also we narrowed down the options for carrying the MPM CIT mix like okay just to the abilities of the people who are not here just to do the background and in the problems that is being addressed in this fact we are no release 1555 to the 132 a speical jocks picture and maybe SSST most new mobility modes which are not fitting not 4G per se one is more satisfying but the problem is the transport networks there\u0027s no transport Venice for some of let\u0027s take some of the spheres so this is gives a default mirror our voice better like LTE it\u0027s not an issue but different traffic characteristics are needed from the transport network for example low and deterministic latency are real dimensions with a lot DPR characteristics that need to be need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:32",
    "text": "be fulfilled for some of the traffic capacity types transport network need to be awareness will be there the current approach is very good for deaf illegalities so this is the one of the problem that is being adjusted is fact and also there is a unsteady under specified Rafi function of a DB PPD accession to the passport Qatar place where different kind of te technology supposed to in one of them so the proposed solution in the last one the last IDF to here this is the last idea solution so we deduce the concept of John novelist because the concept of available context identified which carries the to reflect the slice characteristics like isolation man you know that dealing at the sticks and slice characteristics mapped in the PLC identifier and this MPN see added permittivity in is expected hi packet it could be a solution that ended SRB fix if it is the overall resolution GD you can be used and there are also other so other possible solutions are listed we also comment from DMM what you wrote that you know we\u0027re going to use the lower 64 bits of ipv6 address and some of the comments from peace what you hope is why don\u0027t you use the fast because kind of solution that is which is this big by giving six so all these comments they have taken care and we come up with the final approach and the next slide I think most of the solution that was put forth by John McCauley you will present [Music] so before we go into this one question right so this mapping it\u0027s not a new problem in that sense right you know over delay to underlay mapping it\u0027s not not a new thing it\u0027s not a new requirement in solution 2016 Ferengi are slicing solutions are deployed they are using proprietary way of wrapping things it\u0027s not a new problem they were non standardized way of mapping in early 2016 slicing solutions we just streamlining this approach with standard interchange so as I mentioned there were two different solutions and one of the suggestions was to come up with one so we took the discrete and the integrated once in the earlier one and have one single approach a simple and that\u0027s all in Chapter two and the second part of it was what required more work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:36",
    "text": "section two here carrying the transport context invisible packet header so we had a number of options are here on gue and SR v6 I think so so maybe you already did this transport context from how do you so I can explain that so here we have the four steps I think the first step is partly 3gpp work and we we have specified anymore they made clear that we mentioned that it\u0027s not idea to come up with this mapping so somewhere I mean in 3gpp that there are these functions like MSS and networks like that is defined in the kv-85 30 and they identified the 3gpp and that\u0027s whenever functions and a transport network in between so that\u0027s roughly what we\u0027ve done if you look on both ends there are the network functions P Prime and the UPF function and a transport network in between and the management playing manages to select the slice aspects for the function to be funky and the transport I believe they have also selected a CTN in terms of managing that slice but the details of it are still under work in 3gpp a meaning s f5 so that\u0027s why we\u0027ve put in here that the TNF is a logical function and it\u0027s not something via specify the interface the can see can is idea it\u0027s an idea I\u0027ve seen a 453 which programs the IP backhaul so the problem in essence are going back to series question is that the 3gpp slice aspects the NSS ai the networks like selection resistance information is related to what a user is supplying and so the customer for the 3gpp network is the UE and the customer for the transport network is the 3gpp provider so somehow has not been mapping "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "between was offered to the customer in the treaty P become a plus is what the transport network has to couldn\u0027t we the those are not the same there is a it\u0027s not a one-to-one mapping you know for example there may be a thousand customers in green slices or slices in so something has to be done and and that\u0027s what is being I mean that part of how they estimate and manage that nothing is in 3gpp and you know we\u0027re not specifying that if we\u0027re just offering it as explanation assuming that that has been done and now their information is not programmed one at the SMS to the Ryan and the UVF then whatever has been programmed in the IP network has got to be realized for every IP packet that transits and that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to do I mean I think I\u0027ve now explained those four steps so on the m4 or you what you are getting in the context is truly an end to the you note B so I think for the IETF side the the T\u0027s work would be related to the SPL SBHC and a CPA and here we can see that once the information is in the G note B and the UPF unfortunately it\u0027s got to be conveyed in the active packet so that whatever was promised can be provided by the trust and there\u0027s an implicit assumption that that context identifier is the transport is aware of that okay dangerous assumption yes we assume that actually that that\u0027s a good question we assume that it is not made third session so the estimation of whatever there are various functions which we typically that estimate over longer periods of Chinese and that\u0027s programmed in the transport network so when a session comes it doesn\u0027t try to go and figure out other resources and it\u0027s been allocated and in only the mapping information is conveyed and so maybe on elementary question right now this is I\u0027m going to understand you know not a name so today if you like DHCP and all of that you do mapping at a session layer alright so now we are dealing at a slice level what are the pros and cons of what does that burn days of being this way versus on the session layer session is fine except that if you go to the next page I have yes okay so DHCP is not an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:48",
    "text": "immutable field so as long as there is an agreement so that\u0027s one of the even more than that I think you know things like failure or isolation and aspects like that of our slice are not invaded easy so that\u0027s one answer so we look through a number of alternate is just to see if we can use what exists you know and even so that\u0027s how we\u0027re coming to do so if you go through it this the tcp is more beautiful VLAN I suppose it works in some scenarios where if you have a customer and the provider in the same network it\u0027s okay it\u0027s not they three PN\u0027s use that I mean also works in some scenarios but not in many others where you you know it\u0027s very rigid provision else time also should work but so it works on the some scenarios but it\u0027s harder to provision I suppose it\u0027s possible GTP header the problem is they may be a qfi in the count stream but not on the upstream and in any case it\u0027s too deep for infection and so that\u0027s what we were looking at in terms of those video yeah I Know Who I am so I won\u0027t say who I am for the minutes but I\u0027m doing this the interesting thing here is is that source port is normally used as a source of entropy for ecmp so I\u0027m kind of wondering how either you\u0027re turning ecmp off or I\u0027ll keep my powder driving so we\u0027re only using specific ranges which immerse for that entropy and make sure that there are no effect and also since it is gtp we can so we\u0027re not altering the source port of the just a question that\u0027s question auto farm so it\u0027s interesting to to when we see the P out to be able to look up the UDP source code source port to handle which tries pocket bringing bring doubt so on so which working group will stand let somebody walk on the the dot P router to be able to handle source port so we do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "not think of adding if there\u0027s something that needs to be done no my question is ID mmm is a place to just on walk walk on you yes on dot for the mobility monument in distribution mana and act on work on the truck engineering and you now propose the UDP source port other yeah the ID to mapping the mobility session to the transporter resource so so which idea who are working group to define that behavior there is no what Cooper say here it\u0027s a local mapping function and the PE nodes how do you map the incoming session to this local policy based routing right today to falsely based routing based on various packet fields you map this information incoming traffic to map to the tunnels so what we are suggesting is this it\u0027s not a new thing putting in the UDP source port that is used for today for the for example what Dave is asking for load balancing at both English side and that ran side are also on the UPF side both sides so we are latching on to this mechanism we are extending one more indirection but some of this extra indirection we created to encode this empty anxiety indirectly so there is no working group it\u0027s already working on working fields so that\u0027s why this approach we felt that it\u0027s backward compatible even with existing 4G slicing solutions yeah suresh krisshnan so one of the things that concerns me here is right you\u0027re rewriting the UDP ports are you calculating the UDP checksum again or like you know how does it actually work because unless you turn off the checksum the packet is going to be dropped right encoding happens at the G note P or the UPF so we are not doing any additional stuff which if you see that what is happening is this operator control this particular range of the UDP port map it to this particular empty and CID so there\u0027s no rewriting the first time and the GT encapsulation happens this mapping happens so what happens in the pierrot trees only lookup and map it to the particulate eternal so there\u0027s no okay make sense like it wasn\u0027t clear because it looked like you know it was happening somewhere and in the wire there some like between the P and the G not be so okay this is Yasuo and I think the v/line eye team should not be excluded in this solution because in the first hub from the run to the P note the villain can represent the network slice information and in the IP domain we can use other NATO slice encapsulation to respect the information so I think is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:04",
    "text": "reasonable solution to you Stadium name yeah Mahoney purchases for correct understanding so the since UDP is a be directional thing so both end points of the GDP tunnel have to use the same transport network identifier in the source port or is it can they be different can you have multiple of these identifiers to unambitious li identify the slice that the traffic is associated with I think it\u0027s an important aspect because for implementation you may have multiple IP endpoints through a percentage GDP between 2 to same nodes right followed balancing or whatever if there is a maze electric that\u0027s that should not be is there any reason to not use identifiers which are part of the gtp you header the upstream we don\u0027t necessarily have to use energy 20 on the downstream as long as that translation is mapped in note to mean the same thing and they are and the advantage of using this identifier instead of using for example the T IDs in the GDP is to have less keys to to look up for the transport network we could get some viewers information from the QD maps to Barrow right you do get the the information transferred has no atmosphere hi I am Erin Kelly J so for UDP saucepot how does G never be knows "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:07",
    "text": "it\u0027s Aussie OTP no are you going to use existing n2 and for interface with some kind of extension should be handed by the IP in terms of how to as Dave asked the question about how to handle entropy and how to make sure that there are no rules so you don\u0027t use existing 3gpp controller function right p SG p okay okay thank you pretty much yeah great discussion any any other comments cushions so yeah this is a looks very interesting but I think so just you know you guys any other serration leave any comments okay all right yeah again good stuff yeah thanks so you\u0027re asking us to so I think before that let us ask how many people you know read the document can you I saw one two three four okay so I think maybe you know we can ask but I think you guys want to engage Carlos erasure one comment I think the the last part of the work the how to map in the user plan from the run to the IP backhaul I think this is whether this part of work can be separated from the current draft I think this is some isolated work and this is very important for the network slicing mapping relationship you know data plan this is just a suggestion so why are you say I\u0027m just curious on dirt so you want that can be taken up in a separate document and different working group I just think this part of work is not so relevant to the rest part of the I think it\u0027s not connected very strictly together they\u0027re just different work they are all important but they can be existing in different drafts okay that\u0027s just the user plan map your relationship the just some solutions you list in the previous slides which I comment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:10",
    "text": "yes yes yes I can openers again I I can also take a look and provide a review to okay okay Carlos thank you so which truck do you prefer informational or stone the truck I think there\u0027s not they\u0027re not defining new standards okay so we marked it as informational but I\u0027m not an expert on this okay okay okay yeah yeah let\u0027s make sure there\u0027s more discussion and I think this good feedback but yeah yeah thanks thank you Thanks next one is all textual discussions on a survey six mobile user plain from my name is MIA and I\u0027m presenting on behalf of so today I got to talk about motivation oh and I fixed our discussion and some execs occasion and so the direct the motivation is pretty much similar to the previous presentation how to map the I\u0027d like to address a candle with a level 4 systematics I need to be looking at the holistically and across layers when drastic architectural transition is required for example in the 5c era we are various decisions are to be supported and we are completely new data intensive on services like an elastic narrative is to get it within our soon um this document discusses the architectural implication of our prices are the six memory user plain not necessarily six button especially regarding the possible optimization work with existing conventional players yes we hope it suggests that Excel basics mobile user claim is a right afflicted choice for E and Sierra so mobile network and the transport network are separated by layers convenient Food Network it\u0027s um under a layer to the mobile network and GDP you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:10",
    "text": "is an over a tonal in the movie team network they have solved any problem but each they are developed independently in order to solve any programs which could result in overall efficiency right like I\u0027m famous saying by Peter on in KT so let\u0027s take an example of network slicing into a network sizing so in typical TTP you over IP MPLS SSL configuration are 3 GPP data-planet entity such as UPF is a c e to the transport networks are PE or even needed extra see each lecture scale on which of these are paper to analysis easier in this nicely explained the so with the current touch this since mobile network and transport network is separated on which complicated complicates the architecture so as we discussed in the previous presentation a certain extra ID such as right william NP or extra is needed for secure getting traffic and nothing also artistic sliced in the same week and also TLP is in ze connection it\u0027s a sin organ failure and so some form of be a leader you can see using nothing protocol or ancillary kind of things are required which complicates the architecture fits right so and if we then we can simplify the architects are not and now that touch controls the use of a separation it\u0027s a mainstream practice and user training these are dedicated to father so in that case it is reasonable to have 3gpp take a very entities like ups on the part of our health network this is AC TPP and it says the controlling abusive em separated and if we move to the border "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:11",
    "text": "the main of this model is there\u0027s no need for pece hierarchy but there\u0027s no need for extracting for traffic mapping and we can directly control the underlying business from the perspective of implementation Cameron says it\u0027s unrealistic 630 PP SD that don\u0027t care about resulting but I would say it\u0027s realistic and even it\u0027s more national in the new generation since I still use cases in I own flexibility of crowd negative and in the clouds negative as hugs mich Mich deployments aside the cod proxy on the same solution good or the second copula port would take care of the communication thank you for coming for more such kind of things so that service can be cymatics and some may say that the administrative domain itself I reached and they don\u0027t more they may not want to expose that to proceed but in the case SL segment routing findings it can be used if the protein is to be hidden and for each computer um it\u0027s a v6 fictional traffic\u0027s general capabilities and the networking concept for all freely describing instructions and metadata RC suitable for providing it distributed computing in addition since is a v6 can be accommodated rain regardless of a domain such as access by the area mobility or there is a datacenter some spreads memory and some Cheney that used to be concentrated in data center historically can be expanded over our by the area it is good for and with a certain six system and the QoS information can be exposed in the IP header which does not affect performance with uh thanks to the wrong estimate genetic mechanism is I figured grunting so only the services or applications will need to meet that information for granular processing ah to look up that kind of information so this would are effects replacement oxide applications and for you our energy into undeniable low-rated see communications 3gpp tier two three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:12",
    "text": "is seventy seventy five investigates that key issues for making the URL still comments related see GTA V T in the fantasy system however that solution provided in such document are focused at including the override protocol and the limit to provide a few kinks in to hug him out such a survey included and the DA themes are based on the static configuration or static mapping for steering that over a parking garage across medicinal and such solutions do not scale and he does about economics and that document six one six two six two four addresses the issues on how to support redundant data transmission via a single uvf and signal our landlord but how to ensure that this do it fast is not enough in the government it just says using different IP address or different ever instances but it\u0027s not assure that the path is disjoint Hana GDP data plane entities need to support pack identification and elimination this actually requires the modification of gtp you protocol itself so if it need to evolve CPU independently but I would say it\u0027s not good it\u0027s too much the SLV six mobile user plain also has an advantage in this list you need to order house it\u0027s okay I kind of made our discussions or and and I hope this kind of discussion and comments discussion I\u0027ll work on and I Drive I hope that the Amen Thank You Mia questions comments John thank you good points on the URL LC in the complicated Network just a question how does SR v6 allow the paths to be disjoint you know can you elaborate on that a bit also it could provide the TRAF a which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:15",
    "text": "assure the some fifty minutes they can\u0027t importance and the point is that the SL is all-aware entities can directly control that kind of mechanism know maybe the question I didn\u0027t put it particularly I mean if we have the path between the G note BN I UPF and PSA UPF and there are two of them how do we make sure that these paths are disjoint using a cell b6 maybe it\u0027s a detailed question and you know it\u0027s beauty obey some v6 fancy okay mini John we can hire offline or because the single topic right maybe I suggest I think Suresh yeah suresh krisshnan so one question konasana like this is I understand why you are doing this right I\u0027m trying to understand why it\u0027s a separate document so why is it not something that\u0027s folded into the satoru sons document or homo sons document as like either an analysis either on the solution to say like ok I I think though and that I think the text itself is useful I\u0027m not sure about the form of how it needs to go so I think it\u0027s probably worth my discussing how it actually proceeds ok because like as you like know right a lot of the times like you know when you have a document like this which has like it\u0027s pretty dependent on other stuff right so the question is why should it be a separate document right and this is something that comes up in the iesg I told straight right like we have an IE AC statement right on what is called support documents so I would really like the working group to think about it and if the working group decides it needs to be separate that\u0027s fine but I just want to put it up there so you think about like why it needs to be separate and put it in the write-up 480 separate okay thanks absolutely I think great points I think I\u0027ll just chime in there right I think you brought out number of good points there I think but salacious cushion is a very fundamental to this in the sense that there\u0027s already two documents right now if we can fold some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:16",
    "text": "things there it\u0027s great if you still have some good stuff which may you know if you\u0027re given justify that you know we need one good one document which you know covers the overall thing if you can justify that we can but again yeah it\u0027s good stuff in there but let\u0027s get the feedback showing us here oh my name is sumo furious a so I read this document it\u0027s she\u0027s raising very interesting overall big question to the community actually she\u0027s asking I think now I understand better the second presentation because it has this directly connection right like like you can collapse gtp you and SR v6 and you can have much more transport benefits you can get that\u0027s all good but the only question I have is so that we are seeking like you know the it\u0027s kind of envisioning in future only ipv6 based transport right so what happens to the backward compatibility these kind of things I said I think this recipe be stuck with gtp right like and with the discussion started they were only using an S for new they move to a nine now and they were new they moved gtp u2f anew so they are expanding gtp usage while we are discussing you know how to give the much more transport benefits right so there\u0027s some tussle going on there so I think this is a good document I think you you laid out the points what s our v6 can bring it to the network but it says much more bigger discussion I should okay on a flight from Nokia in the slides you you mentioned service miss you know I wonder what that has to do with slicing I think it\u0027s more for the control plane entities into a TPP and its implementation so conventional thinking about thinking need to be double negative okay but but what is the role of a survey six in with this service so that proxies I think we\u0027re talking about different player doesn\u0027t know routing doesn\u0027t know it\u0027s not v6 that kind of argument could happen but I would say just if there could be a kind of proxy or sidecar which feat can only do the routing for getting stuff right now rafting on the console implementation so the application doesn\u0027t know the wrong thing but another thing sits in de host in that case we can provide being probably from the host "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:20",
    "text": "okay I just want to respond to the same things approaching no Cisco so I think it was actually really like that analogy of site car I related to this specific content in the drop because the site card this whole motion is to allow for the proxy to sit just sank to the application themselves so if you think about these different network functions these different functions related to the Ryan or than the FRG Seaside these functions are now capable of hosting where they are sitting which are hosts now they can have these routing according notes next to them just like what the on where the proxies do so the notion of having them adjacent to each other clearly has tons of benefits as proven in the cloud scale so thank you for actually including that site cars are functioning at the HTTP level not assert v6 which is quite low in in the protocol stack so I still I\u0027m on the opinion that we are mixing things now very bad if there is application level routing HTTP level request routing that\u0027s the business of sidecar and then we have this services which is an IP level or maybe even below it indeed so there\u0027s also the notion of application routing so with HTTP then there\u0027s a network services mesh which is at IP so I think that that those lines have been blurring for for quite some time suresh krisshnan just like closing off on this one all right like so the way I understood it is right like you know the the the cyclic pattern as a design pattern allows for the application to be unaware of what\u0027s happening underneath right so as I said it\u0027s right now used for HTTP like certificate like offload and things like that for the security but I think konasana spoink was like you know if your s r v6 is like put in a sidecar pattern then your application doesn\u0027t need to know about it so you can take your vnf today is inside a vm and you can continue eyes it and that can take s r v6 asses and use it i think that\u0027s kind of a thinking that\u0027s how I understood it ok any other final questions cords ok thank you me I think yeah this is again good work a lot of good stuff in there like the previous sir docker right I think we need more discussions and we\u0027ll take it from there I think the last comment is this presentation - on this presentation are very much connected actually what you guys are trying right so one of the document this one more on a maintenance track this is from mobility capability negotiation protocols okay one second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:33",
    "text": "sorry thank you too much of our call last night no sheets please ok get everybody sign the blue sheets ok sorry turn it on is it okay thank you and the other authors of this draft isn\u0027t only from Hawaii and li geom her and actually I guess the UH noona has pride in did this draft last time and we did a lot of extensions and polish it a lot and now I will introduce it here [Music] and we all know that the ATF and other organizations has standardized my new mobility management protocols and we can put him into two categories the network based solutions and the host based solutions and in the network based solutions the main protocols other PM IP based protocols and the extensions and similarly for the host based protocols and mainly based on the movie accurate six and some extensions so a question here is the item okay and the window mobile node access to the network maybe the first time access all the handover what kind of mobility management protocol can be used and because of the network may support some protocols and the host miss supported some protocols and maybe the host to pray for something and different from the capability of the network so this charter mainly research on this problem and to choose Portland negotiation of the mobility capability between the host and the network so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:35",
    "text": "may have some basic principles here is that the first one is to during the negotiation when to follow the network ability and the second is follow the host preference and third a supporter of functional extensions and the first one is to support the performance enhancements for example some fast handover or something like that and in default in order to guarantee are the performance of the mobility management the network based schemes can be should be used if it can be supported so after the initial attachment of the mobile node a profile will be generated in the management store to recover the selected I\u0027ll pray for the protocol of this host and when the handover happens the network network will check the selected or preffered protocol but the network also need to notify the host if the slack here the protocol cannot be spotted in the new area and we have some examples in the draft and I at least one example here is that a host and network post supports a network based protocols and for example when the host of support to the basics proxy mobile ipv6 and the network\u0027s for some extension extension solves the based on the proxxon mobile ipv6 then if the extension protocol no parity racing\u0027s has no requirement for the mobile node in a moment it can be used and otherwise the basic theme of the ipv6 should be used and the second case is is the item when the network and the host post is supposed some extension protocols and if the extensions are same it can be used otherwise the basic approximate actives proximity heuristics can be selected and then we need some solutions here is that the signaling messages should be exchanged between the host and the network to exchange this preference and the ability and may be based on the extension of the icmpv6 or some authentication messages and another problem we need to consider is who will initiate this negotiation the host or the network solution are you done with the presentation or last and we give out a possible solution is based on icmpv6 is a new option here is proposed on it namely mobility capability MC option with the corresponding flag in the eyes a message when the mobile node and network exchange of the eyes I a message the private preference and the supportive protocols can be can be can be included in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:38",
    "text": "option and then the protocol get disliked either final yeah okay suresh krisshnan ass like responsibility here right so one of the things is that like everything you say has been tried before the idea yeah multiple times so if you go back to like 2007-2008 the net lmm mnar interface is exactly this okay except that it never worked because like a network usually decides if the network decides is going to do some kind of mobility it\u0027s gonna do it right so it\u0027s not going to negotiate with the host why it\u0027s gonna do it that\u0027s kind of something we found out like as a result right it\u0027s not that we didn\u0027t try so there\u0027s been multiple iterations of this I know there\u0027s one like Raj and I did for like you know see my purses pmf is something you tried like she did some prefix coloring stuff so there\u0027s been like multiple failed attempts at this right mainly because of not technical reasons okay so there\u0027s like you know it doesn\u0027t fit any deployment scenario there like so I\u0027m positing that there\u0027s no deployment scenario where this would be useful right because if you take the architectures none of them are made to allow this okay so if you can figure out like you know where you would use this like you know who are the people interested in this I think we can pursue this but otherwise like we know there\u0027s like a lot of past history of failures in this thing because the incentives are not aligned for people to do this okay so think about it how you would apply this where you would apply this I think that could be very useful input for the group to decide if it\u0027s useful Thanks I think that\u0027s a great time input I think mmm er interface document that was Julien published it and say I think the network to end point interface was one thing we truly missed you know we don\u0027t have it even today right in any of this right having a standardized interface makes sense but we could not somehow we always feel we tried but we fail so so I think it\u0027s the question is you know we need to see you know we need to look at the previous work and see what we can do now is there the situation change can we push it now I do not mind an answer but what this was tried before it\u0027s continued last night no okay okay so I think my solution is I think you know you may want to you know work with few people you know get some more feedback and see if it has potential then invest time on this otherwise you know what to think that makes sense or not okay any other questions comments all right thank you so much next is sort of a small will give an update on yeah just one quick one minor one Rajeev Cisco so if you think from the endpoint being attached to cellular then I presume this message would go from potentially the end point towards "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:39",
    "text": "the UPF of the side gateway in case of the mobile area happening between cellular and say Wi-Fi then this message is assumed to be going from the endpoint to where it\u0027s the same thing access rotor it so there may be two distinct right excess water or in case of EP digit might be the same thing as a psychic way when upstairs but then there are number of possibilities so this this notion of having something in the RS an RA would mean to allow for the nobility to work have to be comparable at not just within the cellular realm but outside as well potentially something to think about though I do like the fact that this is not a sari so it\u0027s really low hangings small footprint in terms of protocols extension and thankfully doesn\u0027t require anything to be done in the mobility protocol so that\u0027s one difference thing I see from the past Suresh okay so why is sirisha sorry I don\u0027t have the background on this why the why you said it\u0027s failed because it\u0027s a security show Union to face it\u0027s always problematic right user to network interface is it security is the main thing or yeah I want to hear that sir I really think like you know this thing was not anchored in architectures anywhere site so somebody used to say like you know some wise people used to say in the idea we do protocols he had not architectures right so like for like good or bad the architectures are done somewhere else right like so unless you go and anchor this like the other places where like I think like you know I know is like she has the same scars right so we have to go to 3gpp go to 3gpp to like and everywhere to make sure that our stuff is anchored there right because without that happening these things are not going anywhere right so that\u0027s kind of the path that\u0027s really missing is really the deployment support for this thing so Security\u0027s like one thing we can fix it so if you look at the Julian and Pete\u0027s traffic I which is am an IR interface like everything Rajeev said was actually looked at we spent like a couple of years on it address everything except that it was not deployed right so it\u0027s I think it\u0027s mainly a deployment issue the incentives are not right to do this like so nobody was really interested like for example like Qualcomm was doing the chip and they didn\u0027t care about the network based mobility right and the operators didn\u0027t want to have the you easter-egg mobility now themselves so the incentives really were not aligned very well okay thank you so much okay so yeah okay next is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:41",
    "text": "not bleed on FPC so so this I think just you know a lot of work went into this but it lately you know the document has expired and I think we thought it the work was done but it never you know you know cleared last call yeah yes thank you on this is Satoru speaking I I try to describe the the little bit background of the SPC work with him the course Marco Danny Rio and sorry so um the work had been started at I remember that around the twenty thirty and then first document submitted to DM a working group on 2014 I think so DVM the mmm working group adopts that document as a working group document so we work a lot to to update the document spec based on the our discussion how to configure the foreign policy for the user playing data plan note so as a result of the our discussion we are FPC did not touch any outside what a wire protocol so instead of that we defined API to configure the user playing from the application so so that\u0027s the reason we decide we decide to define the we hang model to provide the API so after the a discussion javi around the 2016 after the Bursar\u0027s working on meeting so we decided to change the data model and the information model to divide to the topology and mobility and policy to those three model conjunction to derive the action forum post configuration to the to the data plane node so after the zero for revision we take that model and if you see document describing the information model of that and data mode data model order by Jung product information model so after that decision we make bunch of the division maybe yes yeah have a revision though I think it\u0027s being mature and live from Sprint take out with a walk to edit the document and the Chari volunteer to to divide the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:43",
    "text": "young model from the main document to make the documents short because the the hold of the document becoming over the hundred page so it makes the viewer really difficult to make write comment and to decide whether it\u0027ll be good or not so that\u0027s the latest status of the the FPC work after the the last update of the young model by charlie there\u0027s no update happened so then the boss of the information model document and yang model document is expires that\u0027s the latest a total of the FPC so so the reason why I shared in the background of the FEC work after the long silence of of the last update so how to be happy to discuss whether we proceed or not the defi C work into the DMM working group with with you guys I think many people put the much effort to this work at the beginning of the discussions a the control frame is a frame or data plane separation so I think to be good outcome here but it depends on the interest of the industry or community for the mobility area I\u0027d like to hear your comment please that explains the interest so i\u0027m co-author and I know that the work that we put into this that would just been revised in details quite a lot and but it\u0027s pretty mature as well pretty stable since a while it\u0027s a stable as drafts have been expired so I think there was a plan how to further progress the reviews on these two documents now there are there was one document which was version 12 then we split it wait and I think only the young part has been published so far and as you said your opinion is that is pretty much sure so since we have to pretty much show parts I think what we still need to do is the review part but in my opinion we should progress these two drafts towards RFC of course we need reasonable reviews and comments for moniker but I also think it\u0027s reasonable work and a lot of work has been put into it so it would be a pity to not progress these drums okay Thank You Marco that\u0027s more opinion and an author any other points okay so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:48",
    "text": "think we will confirm the same in the mailing list if I think this sufficient interest will move forward with the obligation process or a complete the last call forces but we definitely I do think the document is in a great shape but still you know we need to go through the process we need reviews I think it\u0027s not just authors to you right but in the working working group has to say that I think that that hasn\u0027t been established if it that happens we move it forward otherwise we\u0027ll kill it Suresh is that a reasonable option yeah all right with that thank you so much and did anybody everybody sign the blue sheets if not please sign it thank you so much the meeting is now closed I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t understand you oh yeah Azhar thinks lights are mere slits a good "
  }
]