[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "Okay. So let's get this started. So you have stumbled into links that check the routing here at IETF 117 It has been a while since we have met for the last time, It's about, like, you know, a little bit more than a year. So you know, it's great to see you, you know, and everybody again. So first off, like, a few, you know, things just administration here. Keep aware, you know, this thing is being recorded. and some meeting tips, which is more for the people, you know, for afterwards. some resources for this particular session here where you can find the slides and things in other words and the agenda. And then onto the, you know, real administrivia here. So So next to me, we have, like, get done also. So we have, like, a new chat on this in this working group here. So welcome, Ketan. also, thank you so much to Victor, who has been chairing the working group since the beginning also in sharing his experience. and and, you know, and all this goodwill here for the things that, you know, for the data center and, you know, routing itself. sort of the agenda. also have a note well. So please be aware. Everything you say, hey. It's like, you know, chat chat information for for for the IETF. And on top of that, also be aware we have a very strict code of conduct here. Be polite and be respectful to everybody such, if you see behavior which is not acceptable, please let us know, and we will take the pre you know, the the correct action here. You know, we take this very seriously. So this is the agenda here. Any if you have, like, any update If you wanna change something on agenda, please let me know. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "Hey, Kyri Patel from Marcus. One quick question I have is what is the status on L3DL drops. We have implementations and we like to progress them as well. So it would be good if we can start working on them in parallel as well. Yeah. So we will cover them next as part of the working group documents, and we can discuss it. So coming back to the agenda, so we have, like, three topics to discuss here at the working group, and then the fourth one is to be shorter with is like pending for which and I would like we would like to say, like, a few words and to start, you know, let you think about that on on what we can do next, you know, once we have our Beach BSBF finalized. So the first thing here is the personnel update as mentioned. So we have, like, a new a new code chair here, Ketan. We also would like to welcome our new area directed here Jim G Shirtart, So we haven't met him here, you know, as part of the live meetings because everything is kind of new, and we haven't met for the very long time. And in the same time, we'd like to also thank Alvaro for being our AD for the very long time since the beginning, he started up his working group. So, you know, So Thank you, Alberto. k? So now we'll go over the Okay. working group documents first, and then the individual drafts and the other documents. Okay. So these are the documents that have been actively being abraded and worked on. The first one is the core"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "protocol specification where Alvaro has done a review or rather completed his review, and he shared comments. I understand that The authors have are working on the last bit and, you know, we'll hear more about this during the presentation from is on the agenda. on this document, I'll be the document shepherd. the INR code points have been allocated, but, you know, we'll cross check them again. anything is pending, we'll take care of that. So after this version expect review from my side and then we would like to just wrap it up soon. in the next month, and Jim has promised to pick it up as soon as we send it out to him. The next one is the applicability. So we had a working group call, and there were the routing directorate and directed review is all complete. comments have been hand updated. I had also done a review, and I believe the authors working on it. But probably this would go second priority to the first the base specification. So on both on the BGP SPF thing, please watch out on the mailing list in the month of August, and we hope to progress that. The third document is the bgpLS Yang, and, you know, we'll have it covered by Mahesh later today. Next one. So this is scheduled. This is the documents that you are talking about. So It's been more than a year now that they have expired. We'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "discuss a bit more about them towards the end of the session. on getting them, I would say, updated more properly as a charter in my stone. So let's discuss it towards the end of the session. this. Next one. There are these individual documents the first one, BGP SPF for SD WAN, we that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, being presented today. The implementation up update our implementation report. Thanks to push push for know, updating the document, this is something that we need as Jim and ISG reviews this to know what is the latest current status of implementation. And then we also have a flat deduction as a individual drop. mixed think yeah. So I think we'll yeah. So we'll discuss this towards the end, but tear, if you could start with your 1st present, the b g plus field. Thank you. Hi. I am Kupel. And from Marcus, I'm gonna talk about the SPF specifications. So the status update is the latest version well. Well. Current latest version version 26 was submitted in June. This has 2 pending commence, that were given by Alvaro, and that is going to be covered in Version 27th. I'm gonna talk about them at the end of the presentation. Obviously, working group last call was successfully done. multiple implementations now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "are also available, at least 2 that we know of. Early routing area review directory was done successfully. the ops Director review was also done, and then finally, Alvaro, who was the 80 past AD for this working group did the detailed review on the draft. The Yang model, which was training for a while has been posted as well. fairly straightforward model, but we do request your feedback on that. So like I said, Alvaro did a a pretty detailed and insightful review. at a high level, that involved many things from him, but at a very high level, I'll first of all, suggested remove comparisons to IGP. as it was said that this is a complete new extension, and maybe a protocol in itself, not to be compared against anything else. So We looked at that. There was error handling text that was added. both to do semantic as well as syntactic validation of an LRI and attribute. which was essentially missing in 7752, are I think that's the ROC for VGLS. But since it uses LSN coding here. We had to provide that in this context. Optional bgPSP of synchronization requirement. that is usually present in IGP. The text has been added for that. Obviously, the status DLB certification was done in a bit more details. And finally, it would be beefed up the security section as well. Now let's talk about some of those changes that we did in the sales. So from an error handling perspective, we did semantics in the validation of all TLBs. Essentially, we have referred to whatever the synthetic and semantic validation was done in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "IGPs, be with an ISIS or in OSPF. to be referred out here in BGP SPF because the TLVs were originated essentially from the IGP's itself. So we have made an appropriate references for that. in the draft, wherever it's applicable. Also clarified error handling for order violations of the TLVs. This was present in 70 752 biz. And we have also incorporated some of those error handling techniques out here in this draft as well. explicitly called out mandatory TLVs that are needed for SPF Safi as well. And, obviously, we made a reference 77.52 bills as well. while doing it. Any errors now in a mandatory attribute, sort of results in attribute card and attribute this card results in overall of the NLRA. So that has been made pretty much a norm, and therefore, we have adhered to the strict error handling from the draft perspective. We've also modified SPF computation section. Well, we have beefed it up with the relationship of ECMPs and our number stops when you are doing SPFs. So that text is added. We've added text for expression in case of hey. If the routing table size is limited at the forwarding level, What do you do about it? And then last but not the least. In this, we have clarified the state of TLV's transit bit handling. that is out there. We got a feedback on Neighbor Synchrony"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "synchronization, and we have added that, essentially, If you look at OSPF, it requires you to do LSB synchronization prior to advertising any adjacencies ISI, of course, considers this as an optional. Therefore, we have also added an optional requirement of end of rip. before advertising the link. Now one of the 2 pending commands that we are going to incorporate in version 20 7th is In spite of doing all the synchronization, handling, it is quite possible that a prefix could go outside this means of checks and essentially get into an unsynchronized manner by some reason because BGP announces hop by hop its announcements. And if so happens, we have just mentioned how do you recover from that state. and that would be either clearing a session or issuing a router fresh. So that is the text change you are gonna see in version 27. The we're about to publish. and that should take care of the synchronized synchronization issues. For the status clarification, SPF status bit, we've clarified the usage of status bridge in failure conversion scenario. How do you basically use it along with LS, Safian LRA, and then, obviously, edit the eye analogy strengths. Obviously, the security section has been beefed up. And the big text addition was that, hey. while you do SPF selfie, and it can span across multiple autonomous systems. But, typically, the scope is a district restricted to autonomous systems that belong"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "within a single administrative control. So you can span across multiple ESs, but as long as they are in single administrative domain or control. you should be okay. The other change I do wanna quickly talk about before I wrap the presentation is in the area where the node descriptors that are referred in the SPF document. The error handling for those node descriptors was missing, and that was the feedback that we received. And we have simply refer to 77.52 biz for that to say, here are here are the places where you go to the node descriptors form and hear it is how you build essentially do semantic and syntactic validation for that. So those are the 2 changes that are coming in version 27 post which we think we've covered everything, and we should be ready to hand it off to Alvaro and Jim for detailed review. Alvaro for one more pass in case he fills any of his commences, uncovered. and then Jim, obviously. that's all I have. Questions? AC, did I miss anything? Do you want to I'll would like to thank Yes. Yes. they are also assuming and And to some extent, please mind you putting some blind faith that you have done an appropriate error handling checks in 7752. it. Trust, but verify. Questions? Hopefully, Jim, you should like the version 20 7 of the document. Yeah. We wanna call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "That's all I have. Thank you so much. Bye. Thank you. text. Mahesh, Alright. So I will talk about the yang model. that you referred to. should be a fairly simple model should be in, easy to go through. So I this draft, of course, has been adopted by the working group. So thank you for that. Mainly trying to use it and define the configuration and management for BGPLS and LSSPF, One open question is whether we want to even think about LS VPN. because that's address type family that's defined But we that our group needs is indicator that they want. any work done to configure and manage that. The draft also defines a model for the link state database. It drafted itself of course augments, the BGP yang model. which is close to getting working group last call. idea will pretty much decide is waiting on an implementation status to publish that. But this model basically will augment the BGP Yang model to add the 2 at his family tugs. at the global office office level, So it is essentially adding the capability for prefix limits Instant identifiers, algorithmic type, and node status among other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Leafs. It also adds a link to the analyst's DB. And at the neighbor level, something very similar does prefix ads capability to support prefix limits and other relevant configuration. It also enhances or sorry, augments the BGP Yang model at the global office of level 2 support statistics. statistics like update sent received for BGPLS. And, of course, for schedulescomputed. Maxman and average duration for LSSPF. And something similar at the neighbor level, for statistics of the for that. Next steps as far as the draft itself is concerned, we have to open issues. that we are going to address as part of the next update. And I know there are some comments, comments that AC had provided. So maybe any issues that we identify there we will a open it, open it, in Get up here, and then work on it as appropriate. And that's pretty much all I had. Any questions? This never showed Dose since he's in the queue. k. Yep. Richard, Yeah. So I haven't been following this Documents to my question might not make sense. curious why the Yang model covers both BGPLS and l s SPF in one shot as opposed to to separate dogs just is it just because the base speech PLS functionality was not done."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Again, we chose to do it as a single draft, but I'll let the work group decide if They would rather see 2 documents for it. From our perspective, it's easier to do it as a single draft. prompt I'm open to Some saying no, they would rather see it as 2 drafts. Thank you. Yeah. So I have not read the draft. I am, however, staring at the angry right now, and clearly, I know a little bit about what's inside the BTPA model. I don't object to LS Attribute contents going into a shared model at the moment because I believe that they actually are the same thing for the most part. If you end up with LSVR specific features, wanna call those things out that I think otherwise, it will still be a good hybrid. What I'm not seeing in here just to make quick plans, unless I have not scrolled for enough down, is the actual LSDB is not actually in the RIPS. What's the intent there long term? how how Okay? and that might be an omission. I'll probably try to follow-up and make sure we add that as an issue and update the draft Okay. And part of the motivation in AC will have this gear to his own heart. because of they had a hard issue of doing this in their models as well. If we can get some good parallelism with the stuff that's in the the IGP models, that would be I think a nice to have. Okay. You know, we we have places where there are very different things in LS because it's not quite to SPF. It's not quite to ASIS. it's somewhere vertically in between, it does share a lot of faith in being able to cross comparisons, I think, will make a lot of people happy. Sounds good. Yep. Kaitan Talolikar, as a participant, I think in my personal view, it makes sense to do it in one document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "Okay. Because as Jeff mentioned, there is a BGPLS attribute, which is shared across the 2, then SDB will also be shared across the 2. So I think it probably makes sense to do it. but have the review also with with IDR at in a regular points. Okay. last one was probably as working group chair. Kil Patel, because I I was gonna jump in. say that. Maybe the crazier want to do been ID or chips, that would happens Belquarry. across Yes. Definitely. Thank you. just just Oh, Whatever. Yeah. Can you hear me? Yes. We can hear you. Do you would you like to control the slides or would you like us to do it? Okay. I can control Yeah. Nick? I think they can No. They you can go ahead and there's a share preloaded slides I think you can So I need to connect ask your shares nice. yeah, there is an option that yeah. Yeah. Thank you. You can approve that. Not yet. Okay. It should come up. Okay. Yep. Yep. Okay. Hello, everyone. I'm from Huawei. Today, I'm going to talk about a new use case for the PGP SPF. that is for multi multi segment SD WAN first of all,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "this page is about how the SE 1 works. basically, it's kind of a IP set of terminal added to the existing VPN test. and the the BCP is used as a control plane. to distribute the port attributes, the IP cell class a. there are 2 2 BGP update. That's also a BGP update. It's the client to road update. And the in cancellation, you community is set until this new SD WAN hybrid terminal. type, type, And the second BTP update contains that you emission of all to this new SD WAN hybrid eternal. contains the the terminal port IP address. the the IPSec SA stuff. The reason BTP is used as a control panel is to simplify the peer of indication. because the BTP, we have ROR to to to collect data kind of did distribute to the IVSec essay. so we don't need to run IP between each SAP so we can implement the scalable IP set terminal management. and the details can be found in these key working group documents. and the and under the the That's it. This page is about the the basic SC 1 is the the single hook. The SEO internal is is sandwiched between the CPDrevenue. Just a one call. And the actually, the the revenue turnover across the global Internet between the QCP quality may be not good enough. So we need the queue use build build a gate a gateway network. to cross the global Internet. And between between each gateway, we can choose"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "locally optimizing, and we can stick multiple as you want to know together. to form this kind of multi settlement as C1. And in this case, the CPE And the the gateway doesn't work. You're only under the different admin facing control. So this gateway network is usually provided by MSP. and it provides service to the to the city. So, actually, this gateway kind of forms an overlay network need to provide a connection for the for the enterprise running their CPE. And this o owner of the link of this own network can can have many different forms. for example, it can be SQL internal over the Internet or CAS. or as as you want to turn over the call the bad one. different proposals, or are they the gateway can be directly connected. by a physical link. And when there is an multiple this O and A network The question is how to find the the shortest and pasts. to from the CPU 1 to CPU 2. examples of the Revmai and the Yellow. there are 2 kind of test choice. and see okay. We want you to find the the first shortly surpass. to the to the gateway 3. So to your company set, so we can the PTP or SSFPF. to connect the topology of this gateway network. and if we set the cost between this gateway turning closer to 1, then we can connect calculate. So it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "the shortest path in terms of the hops. and if we can connect to the Ninca SRA. between this c 1 terminal and link. then then we can basically calculate for for the key Here is the basic u usage of the DGPR, SPR plus he won. And the the link, then link, there is a 2 type of link. The first one is all one in ink. the SEO internal. And for this kind of link, the DGPR as a PR peer relationship is is there, basically, between the data layout and the r. as a controller. can connect to the topology information on the the SSAT SRA of of the SEV 1 terminal. And for the direct link, This section is on the meeting. and the BTPS, if you have Pure can be can be used for this negatives probably. If it's running between the gateway and R, it can use the photo policy connection. The model NRI is asking me the autonomous systems and the DGPRS identified. for each gateway. under the NIM column RII, contains the one port IP address. And if if we want to connect to the SRA of this link, it can. it will be the nick attribute. And by connecting this information, eat Each gateway can understand the the the policy of this whole gateway network. either can calculate the dots. best road to queue or other gateways. So this is the Cognizant is dropping only a BCP dropped. It's only back in 19. The the usage of the PGTR SPL."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "for this model segment and c 1. we may have some essential ideas. based on this figure here. So if you have culminator So anyone have any comments and suggestions. till So it's Jim Gisert. It's actually a question for the chairs. This doesn't appear to be charter to me. So I think that's something that we need to look at. regardless of what the content is, And if you don't think so. Then, obviously, it's something that you need to look at. from the recharter and effort that I know you're gonna talk about as well. So I could be wrong, but that was just my initial reaction. Yes. That that's correct. It's not in the current chart. I actually like the idea. give the Alarcus. But I was gonna ask a quick question in that When you do something like this, is SPF saffy, been thought about as an underlesa fee, which is use instead of IP before unicast, or you are thinking about having an SD WAN, Safi, that goes overlay, then SPF And then ipv4, or is it s, Steven, Sophie, over S beer Saffi. I think this kind of the queue kind of name. The first is the SD WAN over naming. this will go to the SCR self the direct and increase everything on the learning, So it's kind of overlay, underlay combination. Okay. In that regards,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "what we have done as a work in the SPS Staffing. is to provide an underlay connectivity in DC clause. So while this extends it to the van but the concept is quite similar. Thank you. Hi there, Jeff. This is mostly addressed to the chairs. our AD in the room, and the ADs then aren't cured from routing. there's been a conversation that started about what we do about all of these pieces of micro work and IVR for things like no speech BOS. A lot of those are SR focused so that we technically have an SR LS type of case, and we have other things that are just us. the conversation that has been previously raised is it time to maybe find some sort of functional split for LS type things in BGP, into something And we're concerned as we talk to the ADs about creating another working group that just simply eats another slide in IETF because the work is in many cases small. this is actually a counter example. This is potentially not huge, maybe if it's under LSVR in terms of what could be some scope if they should have to use recharter. maybe this goes into the broader conversation of Are we at the magic point of there's a B2B less working group, which Maybe this is what it becomes or maybe it's something else. Yeah. God. I mean, there has been discussion on this, and How about we we continue this in the next topic when we get to that. But I understand that your This was not specific to this draft. Right? But before we go on to that next topic, after this presentation, I just wanted to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "share some inputs with Hangshi. is that please take a very close look and review the BGPSP of base spec. because as SKU mentioned, would probably need to expand on in what parts you are leveraging that spec and what is being added newly on top of it. especially the the underlying overlay relationship. Okay. up. Thank you. Yeah. I think we can move to the next topic. Yeah. Kettering. I just wanna make one comment just to respond to Jeff, and know, the the one of the other ADs isn't in the room, so I don't wanna speak for him. It it is something we've been discussing. I think it's time that we had a wider discussion on that. So I'll take it up. with him, and we'll we'll hook up outside. k. Yeah. Thanks. So Hankshi will move on to the next topic, which is the the next steps discussion. It's a task. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So we are close to getting the core protocols spec ready for publication to the ISG right, as we discussed earlier. The Yang specification is also progressing well. These things were our milestone. The applicability is also being worked on, and, I mean, it'll also go through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "So this is a time to perhaps review the working group charter, we have already adopted L3dlwork but it's not I mean, literally, it's not there in the charter or the milestone. Though we know that there is a requirement in the BGP SPF protocol for for that functionality. So it's a missing piece. We need something for it. and the the working group has adopted L3dl. So as part of the revision of the charter. That's one of the items. there may be more things that you know I mean, maybe the SD WAN is one example. There could be other things. So we like to you know, get feedback from the working group here as well as maybe on the list. and know what Jeff's comment earlier falls in this section. So definitely, there is a very close relationship are working with thePGPLS and BGP SPF. and there are things that we need coordination there closely. have been fixing back and forth. So, yes, it's I would say we need inputs from the working group. on on those aspects. Yeah. Yep. Can you queue for Telarcus. The l three d l work, again has did going well. I know of implementations. So I am in full support of including that in the charter, probably charter should be amended. And as we do the yang work, or rather I should say charter must be amended or can be amended pick your choice. As we look at the charter and crank out the yang work I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "That work also can be leveraged inside idea depending on what the chairs decide here with IDR chairs. correctively. But the work is bit done here, which is helpful. across both the working groups. And last but not the least, the SD WAN work that was just presented I think it's a good work. You don't need to amend the charter for that. is my understanding. You could simply adopt that and and continue that work if the working group feels we should adopt that work. That's Jim. So on the SD WAN thing, I I I I mean, my read of the charter is that we probably do need to amend it a little bit to to take that in just because of the wording around, you know, this is specifically for data center and so forth. So we need to look at that. I think, The other thing that you didn't mention, which I think would be very helpful is that implementation document. I don't that doesn't need hold up rechartering, but it would be great if to get that. from the working group as we can. Jim that's been updated. We'll share with you. Yeah. I did I I I saw that that the documents there, but it's not adopted into the working group or from what I could tell them. Yeah. anything like that personal task. Okay. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. It was never adopted mainly because it's not It doesn't have a milestone yet. So yeah. Yes. Scale Patel, Marcus. Again, I I agree with Jim in in sense that we should adopt the implementation spec. that is out there for a while. at least that would be reasonable thing to do. Now the SD WAN work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "I all I'm suggesting, this is just a suggestion. is that you could look at those sites as for data centers and data center interconnect. and it and it fits straight into the charter, or you can look at CPEs the business interconnect, and there the charter could be amended. So depending on what working group likes, It's a good work. I guess, Yeah. I I I think the main point that make in is that it we're gonna do the re charter in any way, then let's let's not I I don't wanna have to go wordsmith. Right? So if if it's in the charter, I'm I'm it's clear. So Because we're going through that effort anyway, it's It's easy to just put wording in there that that makes you explicitly covered. k. Randy. dl3t0 Documents can be trivially refreshed, I just got bored doing some. My middle name is not ISIS. So Charice would just Please say what they wanna do. Yeah. So I mean, yeah, you could refresh them. but we'll need to get them, I think, formally in the recharter. that's what That's what our understanding is. Right? Yeah. So this is Gunpert speaking here. So Randy indeed, you know, we didn't ask you to refresh those drafts because we asked it, like, many times. and you probably would be bored by doing the refreshing. So the the the master plan was that we would get, like, the B GPS, you know, SPS spec more formalized push it through,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "then go through the recharter exercise, and I will drop into the LD 3DL work, formally, from that moment onwards, and then progress this draft in ongoing forward as such Let me get be clear. I'm not Worried about your process. Check yes or no. Should I refresh? Yes. Will do. Yes. Kev Patel. Yeah. Kev Patel, Arcus. can we put some timelines also on the charter amendment Will this be done before Let's try to do that, but Let's get the base thing done first. Okay. or in maybe we can have the discussions and start in parallel as well. Yeah. That was the comment. mainly for chairs and and Jim. as in a d If you could put some timelines, that would be great. Yes. So going from a time line perspective, so what we were thinking is that from the moment that the BHP SPF and all draft itself lands on the desk of Jim that we actually start in the working group that questions for the restructuring from that moment onwards. And then, hopefully, by, you know, the Prague idea, we're gonna have, like, some know, draft which has, like, you know, of of the shorter. with some degree of consensus, which we can use as a I know it's a base framework. for, you know, formalizing that, you know, that update. It's Jim. Just just one point, Clara, and this small for Kayo that know, I have no intention of You a blocking factor here. So being you know, the incentive really is get get that document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "to me on my desk, and I'll deal with it. But in the same time, please continue to talk about the recharter, get the text up together and because that's gonna come to me anyway. So I'd rather the working group finish that that doc. And as soon as you feel with that done, then just get on with the recharter and stuff. Don't don't wait for that document to go through the ISG because that takes some time too. So then let's let's do do things in parallel. Randy, are you still in the queue? Oh, jeez. So I think going back to the point that Jeff raised, I wanted to and I said that we'll come back to it So any specific views or input that working group members would like to share about I think, Jeff, you mentioned BGPLS working specifically. Right? is. so Any views here are remote for the working group to look at that, So the the caution I might offer, and this goes, you know, eventually, the right answers get elsewhere chairs, LS chairs, some of the s some of the spring chairs, all into the same room to have these conversations. My one concern about nominating you guys as LSVR as being this piece of work. know, the generic LS stuff that is IGP feature of Doom that makes ACM happy. I was like, please get this out of my working group. those things are pretty easy as copy and paste type things and the pattern we discussed with Andrew as part of the conversation was You know, we we have basically 3 classes of work that's really happening in LS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "an IDR right now. pattern number 1, copy and paste some bit of IGP, it's easy. You know, The fact that's taking quite as much process is probably an annoying thing to everybody involved. thing number 2, there's some generic LS impacting stuff that doesn't really have strong impact on the protocol, which is basically we're putting this extra bit of annotations stated to us, again, pretty straightforward. Category 3 that we discussed at Absolutely belongs in IVR, at least, is we're changing the core protocol, you know, clearly, you have a lot of experience that with some decent D2BIS and, hopefully, that work won't need to be reopened for a long time. the sort of 4th category of stuff overlaps more along this conversation about, you know, like, LCR is a extension on top l s. We have a lot of segment routing stuff that requires a lot cross review with people that are deep experts there, and it also overlaps So the tease people in odd cases because while stuff gets used. So the question I suggest you ask yourselves as LSVR, versus Noah maybe splitting a little bit more of the core work off to a common separate LS group is Would you want to take on work that is segment routing and tease heavy but it's not the core competency of the reviewers here. and we know whoever is doing the work for that sort of thing. is going to have to go off wherever that happens to be. soon Cayer is gonna have opinions about what the review cycle look like, and Effectively, what we're sort of looking at is this is sort of a meta working group. This is a tech area that touches a lot of things that we'd like to share resources while at the same time trying to avoid having the bleed over overwhelm each of the individual working group you don't have a good mechanism for that. idea for that. an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "Yeah. go ahead give So can you put it, Arcus. Speaking is working group. member and Notice an IDR chair. I would say that In IDR, we did 7752. but We did 7752 in probably the most simplistic manner compared to the IDR documents we write in sense that we never put any serious error handling in place, any parsing mechanisms, just bytes on the wire and ship it out. that was it. In LSVR, we spent considerable amount of time doing the error handling and and and doing a consistent error checking if you will on the protocol package. We now have 1 of the 1 of the 7752 biz coaches slash oh, I'm sorry, quarter slash editors also here. as a working group chair. dot, tells me that we have sufficient amount of intellectual base here if l s work has to be looked into Now if it goes somewhere else, which is totally fine My preference still would be that LSVR related LS work should just stay here. and we managed and operated here. Kaithen as individual So One of the things that you know, came up with my discussions Telvaro as the co audit and and as editor of 7752 base. was that yes, 77 the original DGPL aspects was just bits on the wire, and we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "never really cared about it. because all of that was supposed to be handled by quote unquote consumer. And none of those consumers were defined or standardized in IETF. the BGP SPF happens to be the 1st consumer of LS which is being standardized. So I just to make sure that it puts things into context why those things could not be tackled at all in the idea of working group. And some of the other consumers for SR are, like, controller, which controllers and all which are very proprietary. They are not, you know, anywhere in the idea. Jeff, I was you're you're hitting the next relevant point the original idea for LS when it was advertised out is this is read only at sort of best effort, and it doesn't really matter that much. but it very quickly in even the 1st year of it being deployed. got used for tools for people to build interesting things. So a strange mismatch of the current RFC says, these things. The error handling's up to you. Good luck. Good luck. Good luck. the ads be in your favor. And we have people that are actually trying to build important services on this and if this was normal BGP, they'd be furious that the error handling is so sloppy. So I I I don't know what we're gonna do about it. I don't think that you want to have a 75 7 do business. both both both sure that we part of the longer conversation. k? So Yeah. So on that one, I think we'll, of course, take more discussions to the list, but also we need a broader discussion with the IDR chairs, eighties and probably other working groups as well spring perhaps as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Jeff Mention. Yeah. Jim, so it I mean, in summary, it seems to me that you know, we need to however the format is, we need to get the routing ADs and the relevant chairs from IDR, LSVR, together and tease and and possibly spring. and let's have that conversation because you know, there there are pros and cons on both sides. I I I too am a little concerned that If we break things out in a certain way, then you know, we need to make sure that We don't break BGP. the expertise is there in IDR. So, you know, there are a bunch of things that we need to talk through, which which we're not gonna solve in this room today. So So let's you know, that would talked to the other row in ADs, and we've set something up to to have that conversation, I think, Yeah. It's just AC speaking as a working group member. Yeah. The obvious are The obvious reason for taking it out of IDR is IDR has already got a 4 set of documents that are working groupdocuments that are asking for adoption that are But as Jeff pointed out. It's way beyond link state information now. I mean, there's even now there's I believe there's flow spec. in BGPLS now too. You know? Flows back, SR policy, everything under the secure I mean, there's probably I find I saw something for security information going in there too. So it's it's way beyond link state information. It's it's it's But it does all. share the b dggpls and coatings, validation, everything and that but The applications are completely different."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "for the consumers of it. So putting it here, we would need to get You. cross reviews from others. But That is the obvious reason is we have a little more room More bandwidth on the list And in the working group, if you did want to divide and conquer. So just one comment. See, I mean, as a other working group member in IDR and And contributor to the lot lot of the LS work there. I don't think we have experienced any, you know, delays in processing or any of the progressing of the work. I just wanted to make sure of that. And, yeah, we don't yet have flow spec in BGPLS, but I cannot guarantee that it will not come Okay. I missed that. Yes. So I I missed the last comment. again. So I I hope I'm not out of context. AC, I'm not sure I agree with you on bandwidth, but I'd love to hear about your examples. on IDR bandwidth. I find that that hopefully with the great 8 of care and and Jeff we're processing things. I'd like to hear about if there are processing problems I do realize that we consistently don't get enough time at IETF meetings because we're limited to 1 or 2. If that's the real problem, then let's go forward. But I'd like to hear more details the cross review issues that we've had with other working groups between base BGP and other additions have proven to be problematic over the years So I'd like to see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "the stuff that has lots of BGP interactions stay in IDR. If So I'd like suggestions because we've tried it both ways You know, we've tried it with best, we've tried it with LSPR, I I I can can know, we're let's talk Thanks. I know I I that I know that we've had problems? Do I think it's a mistake that would be taking it too far? I think it's always important to try to get multiple threads through information, but We've had problems with best because the final review of some of the best drug documents have proved to be problematic at the and that's the wrong place to have the problems found and fixed because it takes too long that way. So I really appreciate best work. I really appreciate LSPR's work. I simply want to go back and have a real good discussion on how we do this effectively and how we find problems. So means I wanna dig into the problems and have a thoughtful That discussion just as Jim said. So just is one of the ways to do this could be to establish very strong guardrails probably on what changes to BGP can or cannot be done or what let's say, within which attributes and, you know, not no impact to the decision process Jeff Jeff has got a draft I'm just thinking if we have some -- we intend to talk about in the IDR session today. talks about attributes problems. There are other things we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "you know, I was there with BGPLS, and I asked them a whole bunch of questions Schwartz They promised me what they were doing in their They didn't. Those things will happen. Okay? That's that's part of being practical. So We will try to set we should continue on trying to set those, but we also have to have we also have to have rational discussions. all of you are really good engineers. I believe in the rational discussions between engineers rather than hard fixed boundaries. I'd like to suggest boundaries and suggest as as Jeff has proposed things are good best practices. But if we get into large ironclad things weren't gonna slow down we're not gonna have good technical discussions. I hate to sound the the court of rational, but that's That's my point. Can you put the lock So now I have 2 comments. 1 as an idea coacher, is that Whether you want a guardrails, whether you want to have some clear demarcations, that should be a conversation between chairs and 80. I think, not here. So that being said, Working group chair, head off, down speaking as a working group member I would say, LSVR was created number of years ago for a reason. My preference would be to strongly keep LS we are related work in this working group. if that involves LS, related changes. so be it. And then the chairs could figure out how do you want to keep synchronized between idea, best bring anything else That's fine. If the new LS work is coming here and if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "chairs think it's the right thing. please feel free to go ahead. including 80. But The minimal requirement as a working group member is any work related to LSPR should stay here within the charter And then have it coordinated best amongst the chairs as the chairs being fit. So, Jim, Kay or Ed, I mean, as far as I understand it, there there is no just just to put the record straight here. There is no discussion at least that I'm aware of of move in LSPR anyway. So LSB Allstate as as things are now. I think I think the concern is does the BGPLS work stay in IDR or not? I have my own personal opinions on there that I shouldn't express now. but as you said, let's have that conversation between the chairs and the ADs we'll fix it. But LSPR is not necessarily part of that conversation just to just to make back to Agree, Jim. I'm being super specific because we have a draft for Yang. And I just wanna make sure that that draft stays here in all the Uber conversations that happen. We want to stay super focused in executing that draft and that work forward. without having that work being built is fine point. Jeff has it. we're we're having a lot of very theoretical discussions. Good. Good observation is that know, these things may not end up. Like I said, they don't fit necessarily an IETF process. You know, guardrails is a way to enforce these things. As Sue has mentioned, you know, we have placed is where we have process that know, hasn't worked out. what we really need end of the day is communication. We're looking to get the people that care about the topics talking in a place, IETF likes to do that in the umbrella of a working group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "be a working group. It could be a directorate. it could be above. You know, it could be literally, you know, cabal, if you wanna call it that way. so, just want to actually get everybody together to talk about the topics figure out the organizational structure that looks like. and frankly, the way ELUS is one of these technologies that is intended to solve a lot of use cases at this Point certainly not how it started. And what that means is rather than trying to constrain working group or another. Our choices are through all the work in one place and still have the same problem of the consumers of it, having their different use cases that, you know, 3 different constituencies, One third of you understand what you're talking that doesn't necessarily serve anybody aside from making sure that the l s encodings are the same thing. you know we do what they do is you know, for I'm, like, say, good routing as an example. If there's a use case, then they come to IDR and people that aren't following the relevant work in spring. it doesn't do ID already good to say, This looks like a great Dolby GP extension that follows all the rules. only to get to RFC publication time to have somebody in spring finally make up a notice. and say, This is not what we think actually is meant to solve this problem, please stop. So the coordination issue that we're looking to solve rather than the you know, what organization this lives in. think k? So I think the queue is empty now. So So that's about it. So Thanks everybody. let me give you back a 35 minutes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "manage to catch on see. Oh, Yeah. so. Yeah. That's pretty I Yeah. So for"
  }
]
