[
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:30",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Music] okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:31",
    "text": "any volunteers for the notes the minutes thank you Chavez cried Francesca javis tribe [Music] shall we stop sure so let\u0027s start if you\u0027re if you\u0027re not pure intention is not to be an ace then you\u0027re in the wrong room so please have a look to the knot well we can\u0027t emphasize on the code of conduct so please be kind when you go to the mic and the agenda so do you want to say something or so let\u0027s start with the first presentation East one second Ludwick cites minor agenda bashing meet I will be presenting the Detailers profile not euro will call you Gor Anton and Peter is feature here [Music] you want me to click or there we go [Music] good they easy of cop as this in small reminder of what it is doing it looks at the est but instead of HTTP and TLS it uses co-op and DTLS for constraint "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:33",
    "text": "devices we have two application areas identified one was to add for the to be used in the Brisky context and other one is a distribution of identities independent of whisky so we have had two inverted group last call which is end of this virus remember we have many thanks to Jim ESCO clouds and Kirsten for all the remarks we sink we have taken them all into account we have discovery in content format negotiations the next slide will be about that have been terrified and corrected we have added the another application area which was asked by s Co because he had this fantastic person which was so fast he wanted that so that sounded correctly we had some difficulties in interpreting correctly RFC 7250 these have been corrected as far as I know and we have updated the example we made and the very call it not very correct assumptions about how accept was used this has also been removed there were some typing errors also removed so the whole thing looks much more clear the detail s sections we had to detail our sections with bomblets explained why it was necessary and by its fitted in the context another detail last section said by it also handy for the application and what was being used by yet so we merged all that which was nice and general I think the document has become much clearer thanks to the working group last call document comment so thank you very much for all that any comments please do not hesitate so this is about a multi-part payload in the surfer key generation what he what is returned a two type of media types and thanks to the core working group understanding we have had the multi-part content format has been defined in which it is possible to specify different content formats which are sequentially follow each other in a Seabury this was great till the moment we had actually the possibility to either continue due to send back PKS c7 or to send back pkix in one of the parts and we saw this was all very simple we just mention it somewhere and and we do the accept option then it was pointed out that the only thing we can accept was the complete format for the 62 and that was not much negotiation going on here so that wasn\u0027t pain in the neck but after several discussions on the mailing list thank you all very much for the helpful remarks so we finally decided to have an additional pass bond which is called s ki J which returns the one the PK 7 and the P key CS 8 and the other one which returns the PK of C 8 and the pkix we have had no contraindications about the solution so if you everybody if anyone thinks it should not be done this is the moment no great now so so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:40",
    "text": "this slide is valid we think we are done so we still needs to have to define that TB do 287 but once this goes into the into the whole configuration I think this will be automatic right so from the chairs perspective right now I\u0027m trying to verify that we have actually addressed all the working group last calls and as soon as I have done that then I will push the publish button it\u0027s my pleasure any comment no it\u0027s a no shit no compliments let\u0027s see hello a little bit sights I\u0027m going to present updates in the draft 8/8 ace of alpha which I called framework and in a companion document the draft ITF ace of parameters which I call the permanent so I\u0027ve split these updates into several slides because it\u0027s a lot of update since last ITF we saw version 16 at last ITF and we added a lot of things already version 16 to 17 so it was pointed out to us that we were saying the RS receiving an access token needs to verify it but we didn\u0027t say what very fine meant so I added a section that explains what steps the resource server needs to go through to verify a token we got the comment that we were creating a very dangerous endpoint here of info and that we\u0027re not giving any guidance on how to protect that against attacks so now there\u0027s a section that is saying that you shouldn\u0027t permit any actions of the children resources of off info you should only allow post on that resource and you should implement some rate limitation to prevent attackers from like cramming in random invalid requests to that and and overload the resource server we have a mechanism of token expiration based on sequence numbers and as in our discussion it turns out that it\u0027s very likely that every device will have at least the real-time clock chip we remove that because it was designed for devices that don\u0027t have any clock and the discussions indicate that this is unrealistic we added also it was pointed out we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:43",
    "text": "require the secure communication between all the entities and we weren\u0027t saying what secure communication actually meant so we added a section that specifies all the known things that you you probably already know and expected but now it\u0027s explicitly said so we want the Krypton integrity protection protection freshness and binding of the response to the request then we have a number of updates I crammed to version numbers into one slide here from 17 to 19 we added the definition of authorization information oh yeah one question on the last point is binding response to request is that which interface is that that is when you are interacting with token interface with the introspection endpoint and with the resource server so in some way you need to know if you get a response back to which requests was that related so that you\u0027re an attacker cannot serve your old responses right and that applies to any interaction like if I do a request for a token I want to know that an attacker is not suppressing the real request and sending me some fake token back there is the unprotected interactions where we cannot do that if you interact with the authorization info endpoint or if you do an unauthorized request them there\u0027s no way of doing that but all the protected interactions should fulfill that I\u0027m wondering whether we create some new protocol requirements they are to be I think TLS Detailers end of score to that okay if that\u0027s what I will be very surprised it\u0027s current Sonic Center for Internet and Society do you think it might be useful to add what sort of I mean what amount of rate limitation should be implemented for that end point because currently the drafters nothing yeah that would be very application dependent I see I mean you could have endpoints that have very low rates say an endpoint that\u0027s using a Laura bomb Network they they have a very low data rate and this would be very different for an endpoint that is connector apps in the security consideration section you can explore all the different applications well there would be a pretty comprehensive work I would you please post that to the mailing list so that it gets that\u0027s the discussion going because I am not prepared to answer that comprehensively on behalf of all my co-authors now but I want to keep that in the loop okay next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:47",
    "text": "authorization information so I was pointed out to me that we were speaking about claims of a token as the information that the resource server uses to decide whether an access was allowed or not and it was pointed out to me that there\u0027s other information like keys and and lists of trusted keys etc etc that are not covered by these claims but that are relevant for the authorization decision so I looked how was wording this and OAuth used the term authorization information but it didn\u0027t seem to me that it was explicitly defined so I just went ahead and added the definition in the terminology list so it\u0027s now defined to be whatever information the resource server uses to determine access rights and sadly it\u0027s very easily confused with the term access information which is the additional information the authorization server returns to the client in addition to the token so all the things that the client needs to know like the proof of possession key the profile the token type etc so don\u0027t confuse those two please then Jim is very comprehensive reviews pointed out that this information object I called a s information which is when you do an unauthorized request to a resource server it returns to you an information object that basically tells you this is the authorization server you need to go to to get AB token to access me Jim pointed out a s information was not really a good descriptive name for this information object and they in a lack of a better name or shorter name we ended up calling it a s request creation in because that\u0027s what it is it gives the client hints on how to create a request for an access token at the AAS we also added some functionality optional functionality there so you don\u0027t you can you you are required to return the address of your a s and you can optionally also say and for the resource you wanted to access you would need to request this scope and by the way you can address me with this audience so that you can as a client that doesn\u0027t know anything about the resource server you can query it in that way and then build a valid requests for a token that will work with that with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:48",
    "text": "add resource server to the a s so it\u0027s it\u0027s a functionality that supports clients that have no previous configuration telling them how to talk to the RS and it\u0027s optional so if you have like everything pre-configured then you just skip those message fields we added also a key identifier to the a s request operation hints this supports a mechanism where you already have an established security Association with the resource server and at some point you hit the 401 unauthorized and you say damn it I want a new access token to give me that access but I want to avoid redoing the detail s handshake so please find this new access token to the same security Association or the same proof of possession key that I\u0027m already using so that I can skip redoing the detail s handshake so that\u0027s what this key identifier is about then we had a long discussion about security considerations for multi RS audiences so if you have an access token with an audience claim and the audience claim identifies a group of resource servers basically that a lot of questions around this one was that one conclusion was that you cannot use a symmetric proof of possession key here and you cannot use a symmetric key to protect this access token here because otherwise any member of this resource group can change the access token or can impersonate the client towards other members of this resource group so there is a new section in the security consideration that elaborates on that problem and I was told I need to provide expert review instructions for the registries that map parameters to abbreviations so I did that copying generously from both the GWT draft and the Cosi draft thank you for your input and finally now we are stepping up the numbers to the current or almost current version we had a discussion about the keys that the client uses to authenticate the resource server so Stephanie pointed out that as a client there might be situations where you\u0027re sitting under an access token you don\u0027t know that it is it it is expired or rather you\u0027re sitting on a key for the resource server and you don\u0027t know that this key is no longer valid and then you\u0027re sending requests through this resource server that might contain sensitive information like if you\u0027re doing a post request that contains say a firmware update you don\u0027t want to use an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:50",
    "text": "expired key for that so currently there was or at that point there was no way for the client to know whether these keys that were still valid so we added some text about this the conclusion we came to was that we need to couple the validity of these keys RS keys to the validity of the token because there is no way to decouple those in the model there\u0027s no way to track separately whether the key you used to authenticate the RS is still valid unless you have like a PKI infrastructure which we assume you don\u0027t in ace so basically now the problem boils down to the client needing to know whether the token has expired or not and the token is opaque to the client so there are several ways for the client to learn whether it\u0027s tokens are expired one would be to do introspection and there is going to be another presentation about client introspection later if we manage to keep the time the current recommended mechanism is that you should use the parameter or rather the authorization servers use the expires in parameter when sending the access token back to the client in Oh F this parameter is recommended we are now saying that if you as a client get a token and cannot determine whether this token is when this token expires then you should not use it which implicitly says use expired in aspires in or any other means at your disposal but if you don\u0027t have any of them don\u0027t use the token so it\u0027s kind of making this expires in bit more than just recommended anyway next one was we had a section with Ayana mappings and it was saying that a certain number range of of abbreviations required specification Jim pointed out to me that this would be very very ridiculous specifications you would have a specification that says the open ID claim assertion has the abbreviation 47 . end of spec and that sounded really not like a good use of specifications so we changed the mapping sections only those two only use expert review for the shorter number ranges and private use for the very large number ranges so that you don\u0027t have to write a whole specification just to register an abbreviation and finally error responses "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:53",
    "text": "so we had a number of required error responses when the RS was receiving and processing a token and there were errors in that process so we were saying you should respond with 4 1 4 or 3 etc olaf pointed out to me that if you use the mechanism in the detail s profile where you\u0027re sending the token in the detail s handshake you don\u0027t have the ability to return these error responses this restful error responses you can raise some detail s errors but they don\u0027t map to the the restful errors so now it is optional for the RS to give an error response which is probably in general a good idea because there are situations where you don\u0027t want to tell a potential attacker what was wrong with his request so you may not be able or don\u0027t want to respond with error messages and now you\u0027re allowed to do that so that was the changes before go ahead thanks Larry could you go back one slide please of course Robin Robin Wilson I think if I caught it right under security consideration for multi RS audiences you noted that symmetric key protection didn\u0027t distinguish between different users of the key and he said the draft has updated young what ways sorry did you just update it to say symmetric keys aren\u0027t appropriate in this case or did you should not I think was the term or must not I\u0027m not 100% sure what I did there I think must not okay for multi O\u0027s it\u0027s in the security considerations I can look it up okay so this were the changes up until dim press the publication required button because at that point we thought we had addressed all the comments sadly a few days after Jim pushed the button we got another comment that turned out to be a review actually so oh I got the order of my slides wrong I was going to talk about the terms first and then about that so let\u0027s do the perms first param was a document we split out of the framework and the idea here was that we\u0027re using this document to define things that Oh F is working on in parallel and that at some later point in time they one might want to supersede like invalidate and to avoid them to have to invalidate the whole ace framework we split it out into separate draft so if at some point they make something that breaks or changes this they can just update this one and and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:55",
    "text": "and obsolete it without obsoleting the framework so this just contains the whole confirmation parameters honest I was wondering whether you also included the resource parameter in addition to the audience the audience is the logical name the resources absolute your eye and and in some cases one or the other may be more appropriate depending on what you want to do in the hours document so yeah if it\u0027s not the end it would be just one additional registration for the probably I\u0027m just saying so at the moment let me just go through this bullet and then it will become clearer what we did is two things we added a lot of examples for every of these parameters and then we had a long discussion about our required audience parameter that we defined and found out there is an equivalent parameter in the OAuth token exchange specification which is called audience not to confuse without a UD which is the audience claim which can also be used as a parameter meaning something slightly different so since this and this had exactly the same semantics we struck that out of the params document it\u0027s removed and instead we defined a mapping to audience in the framework we haven\u0027t defined a mapping for resource which now strikes me as a bit odd we could actually do that without any any issues just like specify a number a British number for the parameter and say usage like it\u0027s defined in the resource indicators trust so this is what we did on that and then Jim pushed the publication required button and then I got a comment that was actually pointing out some problems not big problems with an cleric Clara unclear parts so we will have to do some changes most of them are already in the version I posted on Tuesday or so so is there is a version 23 now of the framework and a version of five of the params and there were some issues with the parameter mapping sadly apparently when I changed it in one place I forgot to change it in another so I aligned all of this made a big table to make sure that all the mappings were correct now and I\u0027m really hoping they are we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:57",
    "text": "going to mess that up by adding resource now but hopefully that I will be able to do that without more problems then it turned out in this question that a parameter we had taken from the detail s profile because we thought it was generic enough to being the framework was now under specified or rather the processing of that parameter was under specified so this parameter which was originally called nonce and then we discovered that Open ID has already registered parametric called nonce we had to change the name is a parameter that a resource server sends back to you when you do an unauthorized resource request and the idea is you have a resource server with an internal clock that is not well synchronized with the AES clock so it cannot verify an expiration claim in an access token receives so instead it sends a nonce to the client and the client is supposed to send this knowns on to the token endpoint and the a s is supposed to include that norms into the token as a claim and then when the resource server receives the token you can see oh there is a nonce that I recently issued as a claim in the token so this token is reasonably fresh so it\u0027s another freshness mechanism for not well synchronized clocks honest when you say not well synchronized one of the feature if I remember correctly we added sort of the lifetime of the token in seconds which doesn\u0027t require synchronized clocks so absolute time so you are talking about something else when you talk about synchronization of clocks between the RS and the AAS right no there\u0027s several mechanisms now to deal with clocks between RS and AAS that are not synchronized this is one of them the other one is this expires in clay that tells the resource server when you receive this token look at this claim it contains the number of seconds and you start counting now and when these seconds elapsed then you throw the token away this is another way of dealing with with expiring but you\u0027re talking about the other mechanism okay there are two mechanisms for dealing with this either of which might be appropriate for your specific application we didn\u0027t want to mandate just one and the people writing details profile or some of the people writing the Detailers profile thought that this was a very good mechanism to include and then I felt it\u0027s generic enough it\u0027s not specific to detail s so let\u0027s put it into the framework so it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:00",
    "text": "turns out that all this processing that you had to do like client has to send this onto the token endpoint a SS to include it in the token we\u0027re kind of not explicitly stated so I added text to state that explicitly and finally there were a number of small clarifications where the text was less than desirably clear so I updated that and I\u0027m very sorry for that especially that it came so late but I\u0027m hoping it will not interfere with the is the review process so any more comments at this point yes so details profile I\u0027m not wearing my year until under hat somewhere no Aaron asked me to do that presentation for him so the details profile for Ace is the one of the framework related documents for which publication has not been requested yet because we were still resolving issues and there is a new update coming very soon actually I was told Olaf is in a very different time zone now so it might take a few cycles until we catch up in our not very synchronized discussion but we\u0027re waiting for him to push an update what have we been doing since the last IDF so at the last IDF you saw version 0-5 of that draft and we\u0027re now at I think 0-8 so at some point we found out that if you have a 401 unauthorized while you\u0027re talking to a resource server that was being handled as a fatal detail s error or the people could handle that as a fatal detail s error which is bad because then the detail s connection is shut down and 401 unauthorized you might just want to get a new access token post that to off info endpoint and then continue using the same detail a session so we are now explicitly saying that this should be a non fatal detail s arrow you should continue having the detail s session so that the client can fetch a better access token submit it and then continue without having to redo the handshake there was this ki d parameter in the a s request creation hints and I already talked about this we move this to the framework because I felt it was a generic enough mechanism to be useful for other profiles we added a large example to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "illustrate the case where you would have a confirmation plane so I claimed identifying the proof of possession key that was just containing a key identifier so before I think in earlier versions were actually specifying some specific mechanism turns out just giving an example of how you could do this and then saying how you actually do it is it\u0027s down to the application because application handle resolving key identifier to actual keys in many different ways would be a much better solution so now there is a big example that shows how you could do it if you use the key identifier to derive the proof of possession key on the resource server side but it\u0027s no longer a normative text saying this is how you do it then speaking of normative there were a few sections where we were using non normative language and I felt this is actually normative like you must authenticate the client you must verify the signature etc that felt exact extremely normative to me so we adjusted that and we compared to the ausco profile and the ausco profile had a lot of very nice examples for every protocol step and we didn\u0027t so we felt we didn\u0027t want to be worse than doors profile and added examples for each step and finally there is a section now a specific section it was hidden somewhere in the text before about how you securely communicate with the AAS so if you\u0027re the client and you communicate by the token endpoint or if you\u0027re the resource server and communicate via the introspection endpoint this section tells you that you and use DTLS for this and you use it in this and that way so that was the updates we think as soon as we go get around to posting the update that we are ready to does anyone disagree so you mentioned version 23 but it\u0027s actually 24 24 oh good grief has already been pushed yeah that is for the framework is a but we are waiting for version oh nine in the DTLS saver seven dammit I shouldn\u0027t do these slides when I am tired and get the numbers all wrong this is also the reason why all the mappings took so many cycles to complete "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:05",
    "text": "sorry just one clarification on that on the versions here so we\u0027re waiting for version eight okay seven is it\u0027s published and the version eight contains these the last changes mentioned here about adding the section about secure communication and and the there are some some editorials about the figures as well if you want the preview it is on the ACE github already or rather a version of it is on the github already ok so just to clarify we\u0027re waiting for a new version for each other version 0 8-foot Bethlem ok the framework and the perms document are where we want them to be ok ok no more questions who\u0027s next [Music] hello I\u0027m Francesca panamanian presenting an update for the key provisioning for group communication using ace just to summarize or recap for for those who haven\u0027t seen this before this is the message flow of the communication so that the point is to get authorization and keys distributed to clients to talk to the dispatcher and group members so the first part of the communication is or of the message flow is covered by ACE or defined in the ACE and the second part so after the token post the kiss key distribution request and response from the key distribution center that\u0027s not part of the ACE framework so an update on this document was concerning Ayana so we define a new general key field in the key distribution response so just to remind you the key distribution response is the response from the key distribution center that contains the keys so this general key field has now a type that is the defining a new register which we call a scope compete ready stream we also define a new profile so this is not the same profile field as in the ACE because this is not a anymore so and also we have any registry for that a scope cone profile and we also define a new xpl field which is related to the keying material so yeah just to get some feedback do you think this makes sense or any objections to that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:05",
    "text": "then following review from Jim we\u0027re defining errors definitions on from the KDC so if the KDC receives an error receives a request that doesn\u0027t either fail verify or it\u0027s not formatted correctly we define that you must respond with a for one or for all that requests the reviewer was happy with that so if no objection we\u0027ll keep this in next we have a new section about how to request to leave a group so we define this the format for this request it\u0027s a co-op post to the resource that is associated with the group at the KDC the the payload of this request look like that so there is a leave field which is just an empty array this is to basically to distinguish it from join request which is just the same without the leave field then we have in the current draft we have a scope that should identify the group and then optionally the client credential if the client wants to send that now we are considering that the scope is not necessary because anyway when you send to the resource associated with the group you\u0027re already telling the KDC I want to get I want to leave this group so we are considering removing that look excites might be relevant if you have a KDC that serves several different groups yeah but don\u0027t know if that\u0027s a realistic yeah you should have different resources at the KDC it\u0027s really different according to how we have the fact so this cop was there initially just because we wanted the same format as the request for for the key distribution [Music] the customer whenever question shown by completing orange leave in single quotes means you want to have a byte string I know I think yeah yeah okay so another point is that with this request the node can ask to leave the group altogether so if you remember we have scope in this request and for 4k distribution and for for leading that include both the group and role the node wants to have and we consider that it only makes sense to request to leave the group altogether so you cannot ask oh I was I was a requester and a listener and now I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:05",
    "text": "want to be a listener we don\u0027t have that we if you leave the group you leave the group altogether client can rear equestria group without contacting the AES as long as the token is valid so this means that in this message flow the client can just do the greediest region request a response it doesn\u0027t need to redo the authorization request response and token post if the KDC still has two valid token any other comments or objections to do to this okay so next point so this is something that is not in the current document but we are considering adding it and we would like to hear the working groups feedback so right now the scope is defined as I was saying with an array with the first element is the group or the topic and the second element is the role so the role is not defined specific profiles of this needs to define exactly what the format is so it could be a requester it could be post yet it could be something else that defines of of this type so now we\u0027re considering that we might want to add finer granularity on operations and resources so rather than say I want to be a requester or broadcaster in this group you might want to say I want to be able to access that resource you impose using post and these are the resource using post and get or something like that so do you think this makes sense yes it makes beautiful stock it makes sense to me but I would associate all this granularity with something we just have about the authorization server and not paying simpler yes yeah yeah this will be a change in the whole message flow so that wherever the scope appears to it will be like that Ludwick sites I like fine granular access control just a quick suggestion if you actually implement a way of expressing that have a look at Carson\u0027s AAF draft I don\u0027t know where that\u0027s hanging around is that expired it\u0027s expired sadly hey I\u0027ll mail it okay thank you yeah but I don\u0027t hear objections I hear some support so I think we\u0027ll go ahead and an implement this and see if there is more comments finally we had a request from Jim to add some some text about the key "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:08",
    "text": "redistribution initiated by the KDC so right now we have this section and it covers or it gives some example of how the KDC can distribute the key material so the first one is using unicast requests to each client over secure Channel and this is the one that is very well specified and described in detail and then we have these other points which are for now only examples using observe using pub/sub using multicast so of course every every example needs different security properties and requires different security associations between the KDC and the group members which is why we did not go into details and describe all of this but just give examples so do you think we need to expand on the others quite a fair question which multicast do you mean group communication most Acosta will pick us yes oh dear yeah for the first case or does this mean that my client now has to act as a server so it can receive requests because the other method I assume was client Paul oh no that\u0027s that\u0027s the that\u0027s the client Paul basically that\u0027s using unicast means the client will send a request or I I would be happy to see the multicast being addressed but I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s gonna help yeah I mean clarifying the position at least yes yeah maybe can take a look at the section and say exactly like how much more details do we need to go into because that could become yeah that\u0027s a probably it\u0027s better to say we don\u0027t deal it because that\u0027s what we do right now we say we don\u0027t you could do it in these other ways but you need to be careful because you need different security associations and yeah good I think your next draft besides we comment when you design these mechanisms keep in mind you don\u0027t want to require clients to be listening on the on the network yeah whatever mechanism you finally design because the clients might be the battery driven devices and listening on the network is the most costly thing you can do in terms of battery power yeah okay that was it so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:08",
    "text": "think if Jimmy were the reviewer if you\u0027re happy with this we\u0027ll do the small change and then we don\u0027t foresee other changes so like maybe more reviews or hello everyone party localize this is an update on another document following is a calm as a specific instance of it for joining us core groups using ace and just to give her a cup the first part just as a misty come of course is purely assets about having the note that wants to join this group acting as a spy and contacting the is to get an authorization talking to post to the group manager acting as press or server and if this you was fine the known is part starts where the client as the group manager to actually join the group through a join request and yes in the journal response the material to actually derive the group was called security context and then and continue with communication with the group members oh this auto scope of this document is reusing possibly the very same a yes or another one to get access tokens to access resources at the group members or to even actually communicate with those group members that\u0027s just about the group of score document in core this document was adopted in the last year and there was a recognition of version 0 of just the latest version we had as individual submission so this update is about the working it\u0027s like his months was pending updates that we had end of last year already but today I\u0027ll focus mostly on two big updates only out of which of course will Italian registrations all hopefully as for some figures from you the first the update is about restructuring the way the journal response message is shaped compared to the previous known adopted version so still a civil map and of course it follows the main model describe eNOS Kiku come in the first place we have p-type the finance speaker come here with value grupos core security context object that we register in the registry and that\u0027s why in fact the K parameter following is in fact the silver encoded version of this core security context object defining the escort profile from which we take essentially as they are the parameters within the the red frame with values consistent with with this case plus we are defining two additional parameters registered as new parameters for the Ascona security context object they essentially indicate the counters insure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:08",
    "text": "algorithm used in the group and optionally if applicable the specific parameters to be considered for that algorithm and this is also consistent with related recent updates in grupos core as to the new profile parameter define in SQL comm also here it has value a core group of score registered in the related registry and we just use consistently other following parameters from SQL common this was the first update and when working on this way we noted another issue we hadn\u0027t thought about before right before joining the group meaning right before sending the join request the group manager the client is supposed to provide its own public key to the group manager but in general it doesn\u0027t know the exact countersignature algorithm parameters using the group so it may not know the exact format for the public key that the group manager is expected to be used in that group this is a problem and we propose now in the current graph three possible approaches to addressed and are just complimentary and don\u0027t interfere don\u0027t exclude the first one is the client just blindly attempts to send the drone request including its own public key in some format the only one it knows the the most convenient for you at that point in time it may be the wrong one and in that case the group manager sends a third wrong response not really to provide the actual key material to the client yet but just to indicate with a new king for parameter with a fine here now you should actually try again this time please include your public key according to a format that makes sense for the country signature algorithm parameters we use in the group and so right after that the client has the dragon sending a new join request this time including the public key according to that format so it\u0027s a blank attempt the second approach instead is about coming to an agreement already during the top and post request a response that happens right before issuing the je request so the client in case of that of course can explicitly ask their server for an indication of the condition sure are going to be used this time including the client itself keen for parameter side by side with the access token and in this case the key in for parameter well which was it to be just a super simple value no just be alighted as as a flag essentially the group manager must reply in case that flag is raised essentially or may reply anyway just to be sure to indicate the writing and reusing again the same thing for parameter indicate in the algorithm possibly parameters so now the client knows what to do and goes for first join "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:08",
    "text": "request already including the public in the correct format the good sites comment on approach to you are now modifying the format in which ace expects you to post tokens to the authorization endpoint authorization info endpoint because right now in the framework the expectation is you get like the raw binary data of the token not in any wrapper and now since you\u0027re adding a parameter to that you\u0027re changing that to be like a map or an array or not probably using Donelson do score profile yeah what do we give me a family to ask her profile yet have you okay we\u0027ve talked about this also cause yeah we had a precedent to exploit that we could reuse conveniently okay a third possible approaches just that well the client learned the right expected format of the public key to be used in the group in advance somehow when discovering the Oscar group for instance using an approach we\u0027re proposing for that in the core working group implementation wise I\u0027m working on implementing this drafting californium building on ludwig\u0027s implementation of ACE I worked especially on that branch but during the week we actually merged it into the master branch so you made a pool you you find everything I\u0027ve done so far and the purely is segment is done actually I still have working progress on the joy response as actually to actually populate your score security context object with the right values that shouldn\u0027t take too long to do so I plan to continue on this of course so to summarize it\u0027s mostly document wise about the two big updates on the new structure of the joy response aligned with the one-income just specialize this to values and exact content and three possible approaches complimentary and with each other about having the client and the group manager agreeing on the public key format expecting in this group so that the client can provide it correctly upon driving so we mostly need outside feedback on these two points mostly document as a whole that was it so in the hackathon we would did some interrupt testing on getting the group message key format running which is a core document and we got most "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:09",
    "text": "of the way there the intention is to basically start testing these last two documents at the hackathon in Montreal so if people have implementations or want to look at implementations to bring along please do thank you indeed and which are the implementation we could interrupt in Montreal for grupos gorgeous dimension I can think of three four four hopefully more for this one it\u0027s only me right now as far as I know I hope for to at least three okay good thank you very much I\u0027m Cheatham Shankar presenting the MQTT TLS profile first I want to give you a bit of a motivation why we submitted this profile in QT is an oasis standard however it\u0027s wire leads make security recommendations it leaves the authorization solution to the responsibility of the implementation and when we were searching with my colleague Anthony for authorization solutions for MQTT we basically ended up in blog posts so when we submitted the draft first draft describing mqtt TLS and how it works with ace we also approached one of the main authors that work on authorization solutions oath - style authorization solutions for mqtt and who used to participate in Isis impute et Technical Committee - view and author vehicle through on the draft and that\u0027s full free mental just a quick overview of what MQTT is it\u0027s no asa standard it is a publish/subscribe protocol and it has a centralized broker that manages message exchange from publishers to subscribers it runs over TCP and the mqtt specification strongly recommends the use of TLS for transport layer security the clients can both be publishers and subscribers but for the clarity of the draft we describe these roles separately the MQTT broker we treated it as a resource server in the ACE framework and the topics to which the publishers and subscribers publish and subscribe to are treated as resources there are a few sample messages here that is in the scope of the draft of course that every message of amputees in the scope of the AIDS framework the first thing that a publisher and subscriber client needs to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:09",
    "text": "do is to connect to the broker after a connection is established the publish and subscribe messages can be sent the ping requests are also can be important they are keepalive messages from clients to the broker the topic subscriptions can be quite sophisticated including topic filters with wildcards this is important for ace especially this means that a single topic subscription may cover multiple resources so for a token validation it\u0027s going to be important topic subscription may also include a quality of service which basically tells the broker whether you need a acknowledgement message and if it\u0027s needed then is it a two-way or a four-way handshake the work has gone through several revisions so far the first zero is your version was describing how ace and MQTT could work based on the MQTT version 3.1 after the MPT version 5 was published we basically decided to cover those changes in the syrup 1 version update just to note this is an obsolete what we described in the 0-0 version it\u0027s just that the version 5 added new message flows and better error handling that actually helped with a style authorization so it\u0027s actually a positive and we describe these extensions in the version 1 the other two version updates were based on the reviews that we received after the version 1 we approached the voices in courtesy Technical Committee and we were a an agenda item and then we received a review from one of the participants who also published the review in the ACE work group he was supportive of the of the draft he also mentioned we might use finger requests as an early detection for token expiration previously we were validating the tokens during connect of course and every published subscribed message triggered a token revalidation but then ping requests can also be used for early detection of token expiration so we added that as a response to his review and then we thankfully received a review from Ludwig and we tried our best to clarify based on his review the token structure and encoding and added more to the privacy and security considerations I think the best way to describe what we did is looking at the profile checklist it\u0027s at the core document and described how empty TTLs ace profile works the underlying transport layer security is of course TLS the RS is authenticated through server-side certificates at the version 3.1 we didn\u0027t we weren\u0027t able to support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:12",
    "text": "s discovery this was not possible with the current messages that we had with mqtt but now can be supported with version 5 the current authentication and token transport we have several methods described again why we described for version 3.1 can also be used by version 5 implementers but then other methods could made were made possible with the version 5 specification for token introspection and token request we assumed those endpoints could be HTTP but there is nothing stopping them being co-op or mqtt endpoints actually again with mqtt version 5 request response style message flows are supported better so this can be better implemented natively using MQTT all that info interface we work to support it and described a way to do it in appendix in the appendix but again with the new amputee version 5 this can be done better we considered it as optional depending on how is token passed from the clients to the program for that we didn\u0027t want to be too prescriptive so we discussed several different alternatives in the draft if it\u0027s if the token is passed after the TLS session is set up between the client and the broker it can be passed in the connect message and there are several ways of doing that which I described in the next slide of course we can also support other descriptions like our PK or PS gamemodes which may require and all set info endpoint which we described again in Appendix B how it can be supported as an unauthorized topic which is published only to the to the broker a way to pass the token it\u0027s inside the connect message the version 3.1 we basically did what a lot of practical implementations in the wild there is no consistency in the implementations do overloading username and password basically we decided to put username as token and then the password could have the proof of possession data to do the validation of the keys for proof of possession however MQTT version 5 is I hinted before gave us a better way of doing it now there is a new property in the connect message that allows us to define an oath method which we can expertly say ace mqtt TLS for instance and then we can put all the data there which could potentially be empty and that could be treated as an unauthorized request which would lead to a s discovery or it can have token or token data in that case the if it has the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:14",
    "text": "token class or the pop data then could be just clarified as you would do in a username password basis if it\u0027s only a token then you can implement the challenge protocol which is basically again supported by amputees message flows earth message flows yes besides can you go back one slide if you were doing the proof of possession directly in the connect message what are you doing the Mac or the signature on the basically thought it would be on the entire packet assigned it will this was a suggestion it would be an application dependent but we do know that that could that needs to be better the packet contain any random nonce s or something because otherwise you have the risk that someone can replay this packet that\u0027s true that we basically just relied on the randomness of the payload data but then we would need to specifically add maybe a random notes there as well that\u0027s a good point the final thing I want to talk about is the error handling again in fut version 3.1 when I talked and expired we had to be really brutal he just had to disconnect the client under the MQTT layer this was because there was no proper server disconnect message from the broker to the client with proper message coats error codes this was the other alternative was silently fighting and we didn\u0027t think that was a good thing to do so in mqtt version five things have been cleaned up much better now it\u0027s server disconnect as possible and you can send a error code not authorized also if you\u0027re supporting calls your service levels higher than one like higher nickel to the one then the acknowledgment messages can include a not authorized error code however this was also partly supported in version 3.1 but it was not consistent for instance published messages did not have this subscribed messages had this and said right now it\u0027s more consistent and we do have proper error codes also this this connection can be avoided because mqtt again brought in this real authentic ation message which which might allow pushing a new token to the broker without disconnecting the quiet so in summary we thought the eighth\u0027s worker it was a good place to do a proper description of how all to style authorization can work with mqtt the work at the moment covers both drafts this was a response to what we expected "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:15",
    "text": "to happen we expected that the current implementations of MQTT would support both versions which is the case we also see with the current version 5 a more natural way of supporting MQTT a style authorizations in mqtt compared to other pub/sub submissions to the grant we do trust the broker and a single AAS at the moment controls the permissions to publish subscribe messages the broker is a trusted party it ends the TLS connections however if we were to do some more payload protection or create a confidential group of publishers or subscribers I think there would be synergies with the group come draft that\u0027s all I wanted to say about the employee details profile my question to the workgroup is this a work that you would be interested to accept officially as a work trip item comment and my personal opinion on that question comment I\u0027ve been seeing a lot of IOT deployments you seeing MQTT so I think in the IOT space this is definitely a very relevant protocol and personally I very much support this because I think if we don\u0027t have a solution for MK tts is much less relevant in practice and I don\u0027t want that this is Dave Robin speaking for bacnet building automation protocol yes we definitely support this we just one went one Wednesday we refactored our back net secure connect to make it much easier to have an adapter for MQTT as opposed to our own hubs so either hub or broker same things so the protocol works on either one we then discuss what do we do about authorization that\u0027s next right now it\u0027s really mutual TLS you know our own hugs mutual TLS you\u0027re either one of the group or you\u0027re not that\u0027s it you publish and broke your publish/subscribe anything there\u0027s no fine grained you\u0027re either in or you\u0027re out but we know that we want to go beyond that and so when we go to MQTT then we\u0027ll be right here in this draft saying how do we go beyond just your part of the family and how do we do fine-grained this although unpopular imputed is an important protocol and we\u0027re also planning to add it to as a transport likely them to M in the next version of the protocol so I definitely support this well thank you hello I\u0027m stuck I\u0027m not here to say that the MQTT is very important for its F reviews so I don\u0027t need to but the second bullet support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:16",
    "text": "draft ITF a ski coupe come I think that\u0027s very important so that is homogeneity yeah I think that\u0027s also what we want to do there is definitely a synergy there so I see kind of support for the draft I guess you\u0027re looking for adoption is there anyone against so I take away we\u0027re gonna take that to the list very soon and please just went to the mics support the draft so that we can I mean the the working group adoption is only two weeks from the people that seem you who have worked with ace especially with the interrupts of ace and they have been studying a specific use case which they wanted to present in this draft clients in disadvantage networks so what our disadvantage networks actually it\u0027s like constraint networks but worse so they are like frequently disconnected connectivity is intermittent which is basically the same and they are very limited and the practical uses they are looking at oh sorry and you have a high risk of sabotage impersonation of of different entities and device capture and the scenarios they\u0027re looking at is like ad hoc networks for first responders for law enforcement and for military so two of the things they have been considering in the light of these specific extra constraint requirements is that the AAS might want to revoke tokens for known compromised resource servers and the climb want to check that their tokens are still valid before they interact with resource server so that reflects a bit the discussion we had on on validity of the resource server authentication keys for the framework only here it\u0027s worse because you expect your resource servers to be captured or impersonated so they were looking at different ways of helping the client to not use tokens that belong to a compromised RS one way the usual way you you would like spontaneously solve this is to give the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:16",
    "text": "show the tokens are very short lifetime and then if you know that there is a compromised RS you just stop issuing new tokens for it problems with that is that you\u0027re going to be creating a lot of tokens and wasting the very limited and intermittent bandwidth that you have and that you\u0027re good tokens or rather the tokens for good RSS might not be valid long enough to do what you actually intend to do because you have like an intermittent window of connectivity to your ASU fetch it open and by the time you need to contact the ers the token might already be expired so it\u0027s a bit tricky to handle the lifetime because you have conflicting requirements so they looked at another alternative would be to revoke two tokens at the a/s and then have the client do introspection in these intermittent connectivity windows so a bit of background we talked to OAuth people about clients doing introspection and the message we got is it is not specifically forbidden but not a specialist if achill encouraged so it is possible with the introspection RFC but we don\u0027t talk about it so we wanted to talk about it and analyze the problem basically the idea is when the client gets in range of of its a s it opportunistically does an introspection on the tokens that it is holding there are several problems with that for example if you allow fully introspection then attackers could just introspect tokens that they captured on the radio to learn what they contain as claims this means you need to differentiate between clients doing introspections on tokens and resource servers because the resource servers need to learn the claims that\u0027s the whole point for them of doing introspection the clients actually don\u0027t need to know that they just need to know the active parameter for their token and if you then can differentiate this is a client doing introspection this is a resource server and you can serve the resource server with the whole set of claims and the client just gets an active or not active parameter the other problem is if you\u0027re using CW T\u0027s or gwt\u0027s that are encrypted which you typically would want to do in such an environment because you need a self-contained token and you need an token that an attacker cannot see the content off then the AES needs to decrypt the token when it gets an introspection request on that token so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:16",
    "text": "usually the way you can do that if it\u0027s a resource server is you know which is the resource server so you know you can like map that token but if it\u0027s a client typically the a s would not know what kind of token is this how can I see which token disease and decrypt it to find out how it matches to the tokens I issued so you need to find the key that the a s originally used to encrypt this token and this just requires us to include a key identifier in the Cosi wrapper of the token so that the a s can easily decrypt the token find out oh this and I\u0027m being asked to introspect I mean you could iterate through all the tokens that the a s has issued and just search until you find the wrong one that matches but we were expecting that this might be a lot of tokens and you\u0027d rather not want to do this especially if the cost is only adding a key identifier in the header of the token so this is the problems they have looked at there are more problems with this specific environment and the questions the authors would like me to ask you is would there be interest in the working group to explore these specific problems or this problem specific to this type of scenarios in this working gym shot individual I found the document interesting but I\u0027m worried that it really wasn\u0027t exploring the entire problem because it didn\u0027t for example talked about revoking clients I mean it was not clear how a resource server could do this opportunistic checking given that it is only intermittently seeing the AF sin they probably didn\u0027t see the client token until after it saw the AF obviously the AAS can know that it revoked in RS in the end not permitted to do introspection but it\u0027s not solving the other half that problem same kind of or at least not even discussing the other half the problem seemed odd but it\u0027s a serial version so this room for improvement but thank you for that feedback I will relay it to the authors and we will see if we can address that\u0027s you Carson custom over there is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:18",
    "text": "our group that works with this kind of networks the DTN working group oh so maybe it would be worth getting some DTM people involved did he end started out as a research group attaching colors to zebras and then things like that so they know her about network problems and I can imagine that they would be interested in getting its bits and pieces they that they can use for authorization in these networks good anymore so my feeling is that the document is not yet for code for adoption but the topic is of interest so the discussion should move on that\u0027s my christening this I will relay that to my co-authors thank you you\u0027re ludic today we\u0027ve changed roles if time permits part of the agenda and this is my name is here on cylinder and this is a reminder for the notes and this is a reminder about work that we have started a couple of years ago which has been resting for a while and I\u0027d like to hear the people are interested in that we\u0027d like to continue this this work so there was a virtual interim one and a half years ago discussing certificate enrollment constrain devices and there were two candidate solutions discussed one protect protecting of enrollment using EST and DTLS so that\u0027s the EST coop s draft which is now done and then there was another proposal which was looking at protecting EST payloads on application layer that\u0027s the istic Oscar draft so that\u0027s that\u0027s the one I\u0027m talking about here and the questions was asked for the working group for the two solutions which one should be work on and the answer was do both but start with est corpus yeah start with est corpus the DTLS version and so that\u0027s done now and we intend to restart the work on est our score so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:22",
    "text": "reminder of what what how it works it\u0027s basically addressing the problem or for the same reason as is the coop as is a good idea that you already have implemented a security protocol in this case a transport layer security call and you want to reuse that for protecting enrollment that\u0027s the same rationale here assume that you have devices who are implemented or score and a key exchange protocol which we have we use the name ad hoc as a placeholder and then how would you reuse that you don\u0027t want to have multiple communication security protocols you\u0027d like to reuse that communication security protocols is communication security protocol for protecting the enrollment so that\u0027s basically the problem statement and it turns out it\u0027s very much of the est corpus translates directly so that\u0027s simple it\u0027s not like a completely new enrollment protocol is basically reducing what what already exists but protecting it on application layer rather than on transport layer but there are some slight differences so for example the EST over with all score you could use end-to-end rest so you could dissuade change between co-op and HTTP so a client could start with co-op and the enrollment request could pass the nation for up to HTTP proxy and end up in the registration authority and you can have end-to-end security networks over UDP or over D TLS or TLS or or other transport but minor differences but basically we would like to have an enrollment protocol for these devices which only implement or score and the next steps well is to flesh out these details now ESD capacitor has developed a lot and matured so we\u0027d like to take over those details that\u0027s one first next step in the comment on this is pitifulness talk one of the FT Corp as co-op s authors yeah I don\u0027t read that now having virtual sauce core there is not too much work to support them to the other children agreed you will need ad hoc or something similar to get the whole thing working or you\u0027re also worried about that I don\u0027t well for my experience with my background I don\u0027t see this be used for a general distribution of certificates over the network but I can very well see the use in the Brisky environment where at this moment we have problems with specifying proxies it should be very careful not to look at the detail s contents etc okay thanks Kirsten Bowman since we are being slowed down by waiting for a torque to complete maybe we can send some fun here and do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:25",
    "text": "other certificates then x.509 certificates in the process so this is completely independent on what kind of certificates you use you well know when you look at STS they have defined names to get things in certain formats so they I mean it\u0027s not like the project hold changes but there are some details that actually cater with the fact that we have different formats for different things so maybe it\u0027s just worth looking at this different from that for the different things or different format I think what the person is saying is that we don\u0027t this doesn\u0027t necessarily have to be x.509 certificate and that\u0027s somehow what is assumed in in the East a coop s setting okay so that\u0027s yes we need to look at Ed hook also it could actually make sense without ad hoc here in in a setting where you do implement multiple communication security protocols but before that thing would be that you have a key exchange protocol in place and that that would be ad hoc or what it will be called now and when we hopefully get this new working group Ronnie and I will already have one other suggestion here from from Carsten is there any other other suggestion you\u0027d like to add to this work no okay any other comments thank you I wasn\u0027t paying attention and forgot that I actually had a couple extra slides here so the big one is Edie Hawk has been in this group presented here several times and he went through a set dispatch process and a summary message from the current ADEs was posted on sec dispatch yesterday for those people who would like to see ad hoc done or for those people who really don\u0027t want to see it Hart done if you can get on to the sector specialist and express support or whatever that would be appreciated the current plan forward can I say about that or cannot say about that right thinking I was just going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:33",
    "text": "say you know if you\u0027re coming to express something else on the list please be specific about it so basically right now the intent is to form a working group without going through the Boff process I\u0027m not exactly too sure when people are going to start writing charter but our mailing list but that should be announced sometime reasonably soon I assume Kirsten so woman so this is ostensibly one of the customers of this potential work that is being summarized here set work but really which is enough indicator to key agreement protocol that is applicable to our work here and might use ad hoc as a starting point and I think it would be good thing to know if the people in this room who kind of other customers of this would need this would be happy with the working repeating farm to work on this I asked the same question in the call a working group and and we had consensus that this was a good thing to do so I just would like to hear from a slightly different constituency whether that\u0027s also the case I would ask the chairs to maybe consider asking that question because I want us this fresh customer key but you asked us whether their core group was happy with not doing that in core which was a different question and I heard that question and I\u0027m fine with not doing that in core but talking about the more substantive and so I when we had the presentation a virtual intermitting the conference called there were requirements being presented and I tried to sort of in a follow-up Melinda\u0027s discussion get a better sense of what the size requirements we\u0027re and I got some good feedback on six dish but I didn\u0027t I didn\u0027t hear any any other things on on some of the other radio technologies in terms of empty you size so I think that would be useful together and also there was um there was the question about the power consumption model that was presented for the MBI OD and it seemed to refer to it wasn\u0027t clear whether that was assimilation it wasn\u0027t clear what a data came from so that\u0027s also someone at the conference the name said that they would provide which they didn\u0027t never did since I don\u0027t know the name of the person someone from Ericsson maybe they can post that to the list provide some additional feedback so that others can actually verify the results hive room "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:36",
    "text": "engineer one of the complexities we had in producing that summary for kind of ad hoc is that we had the discussion in so many different places so if we want to bring comments to what was there we would beg you to take it to this sec dispatch mailing list and kind of talk about there I mean it\u0027s great that there\u0027s customers from different working groups getting endorsements and getting that feedback is very helpful but ultimately please gonna bring that back to the discussion that we are having on safe dispatch so your acid on them so I I think I\u0027ve addressed all those questions in the secretary list could you please go back and check and see because both the Laura one and two sizes were discussed and they are also presented in the in the slides as for narrow band IOT power consumption is also extensively described that it\u0027s not a critical there since there is a fragmentation scheme built into narrowband IOT there are no critical and view sizes it\u0027s basically handled that was stated multiple times please read the list and come back with questions on the sectors per track list I\u0027ll summarize what Roman Denis I\u0027ll summarize what I said before we believe that the consensus opinion in half of all the bits are in air right up if we are incomplete and we think we need to kind of flesh that out whether it\u0027s with kind of additional details or or otherwise it would be again very helpful to us if we poke at the specific things we said on sick dispatch or again on an on the question in the core group I think the core of the question was okay do we want this done and there\u0027s a lot of support yes we want to get this done and the way forward seemed to be reasonable I guess that\u0027s what we had consensus for and procedure question might it be possible that during the discussion of ad hoc in its special version group some of the results may go back here to the this working group and we could look at the documents and comment on them we yeah there were deaths we can definitely advertise it on to you additional lessons okay I\u0027m reluctant to actually do that Paul so I think not the one other thing that I wanted to bring to people\u0027s attention Honus wrote a draft for using CW T\u0027s as the certificate in TLS and I actually implemented it over the hackathon it seems to me that it may be something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:36",
    "text": "that this group wants to explore deeper at some point because it provides an analogous behavior to the PS K where you can send the token as the identifier so you can just send the token as the certificate directly without having to post it to the authorization point okay is there anyone else who wants to bring up any business could you mention Dean dream men the core and seaboard working groups have been holding alternating weekly interim meetings the intention is for us to get together and set up a schedule hopefully to go at least through Singapore and one of the things that we are looking at doing with that is to offering offering occasionally some of those slots to other working groups so that they are we have a very predictable time that a lot of people can get on to it so we will be sitting a beautiful and we will be including this mailing list on that beautiful all and we would like you to give us feedback so we can help in terms of deciding a consistent time and being get the most people on the right set of people if we do have an ace interim it will not necessarily be at that time but it will be one of the options okay go find your bear plants which also means that some progress has to be made between the interim meetings okay I guess we\u0027re done thank you and Co see you all in the next interim meeting [Music] you "
  }
]