[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "good morning good day good evening good night good Monday good Tuesday whatever it is for you we'll get started in a minute um we will see who else might show up certainly I'm missing my co-chair I don't know if CLA is planning on attending or not but we'll give it a couple minutes it should be a light agenda so there's no [Music] rush [Music] all right uh why don't we go ahead and get going I think this will be a light meeting a couple of reminders up front one uh the Prague ietf is coming up the satp meeting during that uh conference will be Thursday at noon uh they're really messing around with the agenda again um they're we're always trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "experiment to figure out how to get more working groups you know able to meet and with less conflicts and so uh seems like they've shifted some stuff to the morning as you may have noticed the Friday afternoon we're running much later than we normally ever do on a Friday um in order to try and reduce conflicts so um the ATF is a busy place anyway we will be Thursday at noon which is sort of a strange new starting time but there's an hour and a half break before it uh so the other things for today is I believe Thomas wanted to talk about the identification design team report or more specifically we've asked him to and uh any other topics of Interest I'll remind everybody that the ATF note will does apply in interim meetings so anything you say you know can be uh used against you in an internet draft um so do watch out for that because there's IPR and and related legal commitments that you have partaken in order to you know attend an it F meeting and participate um does anybody have other topics that you want to discuss today that we could put on the agenda ahead of time uh from me apologies one would be this is the last of our interim session so the resummation of these after the next um official working group and time zon so I'll put a note out to that for everyone um and also to kind of lay the ground workk now for an agenda for the um 9th of November um obviously we've got three draft documents in various stages of of Readiness so it' be good to crack on with those that is a good idea U yeah we did talk about creating more um interim meetings after this one if people find that these are helpful then we should certainly do them um uh so why don't we take those up to aart First Claire I think those are good topics uh for the first one do we do we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "want to keep rolling with interim meetings through you know essentially winter break um so have one in December and have one in January and February before the next uh ATF anybody have opinions Pro or con or retired of them we want to keep going making good progress but yeah I suppose another question um that might help answer that W would be how ready for adoption do we feel that our three documents are if it's something we think we can um put towards last call then the interim sessions might not be needed as much as say for instance the the the side group about Network identification however if we think there's still work that's needed on them then of course there's um probably a more pressing reason to have a December and a January session that is a really good question um I would say we should put that on the Prague uh meeting schedule for um a five- minute discussion on how much time is left that is needed you know where are we I think that's a really excellent question but that deserves a larger group of people than are here today yeah absolutely okay Thomas is in favor of uh further meetings in in December and February Thomas you left off January I assume that was intentional of all the months that's not the one I maybe not was the first week of January did I forget yes yeah I I'm basically saying you know I I'll go with the flow okay okay I don't I don't want to ruin your Christmas shopping is what I'm saying all right well um Claire and I communicate offline and and get those scheduled then it sounds like if if nothing else they're good to have on the calendar but we can always cancel them if if uh doesn't look like they're needed but maybe that's actually the right policy going forward if people don't give us things for the agenda then we cancel them that's probably the right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "way to go um as for the agenda for Prague um another good question Claire so uh certainly a recap of any issues of of the outstanding discussions with the three documents are good um certainly the design team might have a slightly larger report by then um I'll leave that to to Thomas and the design team to to come up with um and then the the question of what is left and so um and you know part of what is left I think also comes up with what have we tabled for the future um that once these three documents are done that we want to make sure that we keep our eye on and possibly recharter after that but certainly a timetable for concluding with the existing documents are a good thing to to do at this point so uh anybody else have topics for the Prague agenda in particular which I should really say ETF 118 rather than PR but I always forget numbers hearing none we will run with the ones that um came up on the mailing list and um I think there's we can probably tease out a few few more but we always those meetings always tend to fill the full time length which is a good thing um and we're getting closer to wrapping up so that's fantastic um [Music] um any other topics for today other than the ones we just ran through and the identification design team report that Thomas will give us in a [Music] moment all right Thomas uh we'll turn over to you do you w to you should be able to use the presentation View and request your slides to be presented they should be there I think okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "uh yes can you guys can hear me right uh ask to share slides okay is it that is it that button it is that button uh and give it a few seconds choose a deck I guess it's that one there's only one deck so yes it would be like share it's like what is it saying is can you guys see that yep you're good go for it okay okay okay so so this is just a quick update the subgroup had three you know indep meetings separate from the interim where we basically had a discussion about you know what what is it the what are the features that we want and I think for me was the big recognition from the team was that there will be systems that are not blockchain based or DLT based and we have to make sure that those points are covered by whatever identification scheme we decide upon um the how do I move forward oh just slide two yeah so so and and the the the goals or requirements this is you know wager you know beautifully identified these uh himself having had to struggle through you know his EIP with the cross chain ID you know in the ethereum uh Enterprise ethereum Community but the first thing is of course um internally there needs to be a way to you know identify uh different paths in the fork of of The Ledger right this is by inclusion of the Genesis block uh then there needs to be some part that's that's relevant internally so if you if you are you know the identifier needs to be included in the transaction that you're transmitting you know so that you know it's intended"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "for that you know even let's say worst case there is a fork you want that side of the fork versus the opposite side of the fork and then the the big one that I think will take uh some time but but is is in we're looking at this is this you know notion that there needs to be a way to legally claim or or legally register that this is you know our Network just in the same way that um isps would register as numbers uh so that and and that's only just just to prevent conflict and and and so on in terms of technical you know conflicts in numbering and so on um uh so next slide so so we spent a lot of time talking about the T tlv based model um and and basically this diagram is trying to explain what it is so the top bit is is your you know plain ordinary tlv typ length value uh and for sake of the argument we just said look you know is is eight bits enough for the type and the type here means the generic type of the network uh and so we identified at least three different types I know with with seven bits you can identify a bit more but let's just start with those three so type one would be public permissionless type two would be private closed and type three would be you know non-dt you know some rtgs mon monolithic you know you know database endpoint um the the L portion 8 Bits it just indicates what to expect in the uh the third you know set of numbers which is the which is going to be variable so I just put n Bits just you know could be bytes but the by the way the the L uh the the length bit the eight bits should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "measure the number of bytes not bits bytes so so so but anyway and so this diagram has two examples so the first one is option A is is where we put draft Jang which is a 32 byte number directly there you know and that's option a uh and in the last meeting um there was a suggestion an idea really from um Dennis that well what if what if uh you know the front portion of those end bits could in fact include a humanly readable name you know and this is like ethereum rink you know Tes something tet net something that the human can read and then you have the this the set of set of bites so so you know that's the catch there is that there needs to be some separator markings you know a set of you know 81s or something like that that we can you know you know design it can come up with to to you know distinguish you know between the re human reedu portion versus the you know the hex that it's going to come after it um but but that's uh is that it yeah this is just a reminder this is what the 32 bytes are in um gra Jang so no change there uh but let me go back to to this slide um where where has pointed out something interesting W do you wanna do you w to speak up you had a you had a question you had an interesting situation about the fact that same type same uh sequence bit in the length and what what did we do that you know yeah yeah can can you can you hear me uh I just turn on the video and audio yeah okay yeah um so when I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "this tlv is great I think we extend the original kind of 30 to BU back to this tlv which will cover a lot of scenarios that we want to cover I think that's one of the best thing that that can out come out of the the discussion in this group a lot of smallart ideas come up small people proposing small ideas that's great so I think we have that flexibility now it's because of we add this type and length it's then it's it's so open ended now we need to kind of uh make it a little bit converge a little bit um so what what my question was that yes you can Define type no problem that you there's a limited number of type that we can Define and then I was asking Thomas right can if this lens is arbitrary that means that anybody can put the ID over there for the value and then it become so open-ended then this the the passer cannot do much much to it so I was asking Thomas for this lens can we pre Define predefine some lens for example when this L is 32 byte that it means this thing and then it's eight byte it could means that if it's not eight by just two by is enough will be for EIP 155 and then if it's it's one bite it could be for bip I think 44 so it can address different identities that we think are not uh not sorrow with but that those are Legacy so this tlv should be able to address both the uh the 32 by one and also the previous one that that that we have uh which is only two or three bues will be enough to to to kind of address those and then I my suggestion is that we can predefine some of these lengths and then if you have 3 it refer to this at2 refer to that so I'm not sure that's a good idea or not and second thing is that U the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "option b here read a name right if people have different lengths of readable name then this ID will be even for the same type of ID you'll become a very length with with kind of different length because this little little name is kind of a arbitrary so it could be short or long so I think it' be good to have a fixed L for the same type of ident otherwise the P will have problem the the storage will have problem as well so so this this these are two questions I ask and I think for the legal thing in the previous slides atomo said it's it's still open-ended because it's very difficult to legally Define the ownership of a of a network of a blockchain network so that's that's still in discussion but my my question is more on the how do we predefine some length and some type and then associate those to a specific definition of identity anyone else wanna want to jump in or try to answer yeah so so all good question thanks for the good review I I missed the last meeting so I I missed a lot of the discussion that was going on um to me it sounds like the the the problems that you are running into are twofold right your current typel value um is is not very much a traditional typ length value as much uh because because you have a very limited number of types and I I just sort of got that now right you have the three types that you listed below and it's unclear if you'd have a huge number originally I was thinking an 8bit field is not anywhere near enough large enough because you know depending on on how you're going to use it and I was thinking it would be sort of a value per blockch you know per uh netor networ essentially and that's that's not the way that this is laid out to be so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "you actually really have in option b you have two types right you have the type of the network which is sort of you know the expected usage of the network and then and then the the readable name in option b is therefore then the identifier uh for that particular Network and more importantly the format of the remaining you know length value right the format of the remaining value um I agree you know having a a fixed a variable length readable name type I I'll merge the two words um can cause some issues for exactly the the reasons that that um were just mentioned um having it a fixed length and and so that you know the format of the rest of it but I will say the one thing that I worry about with this whole effort is we have found many problems in the ATF where when you identify some structured format right and one one half of it is is subject to interpretation because different implementations with different identifiers and stuff will be not parsable you know or something like that that is a very valid point on the other hand if you can treat it as a generic blob and all you're really doing is saying hey this you know this this is the identifier for that particular uh Network or entity within the network that's great as long as all you have to do is pass it around and you don't have to understand it um what I what I worry about is conflicts right um or uh where you have if if you don't have an identifier for a particular Network right because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "you're trying to be decentralized um then you run into the case where a field may be the exact same value for two totally different types of networks so right um if you're not talking about just the Genesis block or something like that or you're dealing with forks or things like that where the Genesis block may be the same in in some Fork models um you run into a problem where you could very easily be pointing at something um from where two different two different people reading the value may be actually thinking about two different entities that are being pointed out um I'm rambling horribly so I'm going to shut up now but um I hope you get my points yeah can I can I answer to West's question all his concern uh go ahead Brier yeah yeah yeah so I think for I I fully understand the that the uh the possibility of the same value pointing to different things uh well let's let's take the example of type one right for public permission L Type so if in this case here the the type of net will be just type one that's easy and then the the length if I put 32 here which a bit is is long enough just say uh 4 Zer or uh no two Z that's 3 that means that there's 32 by here um and then we just in this right we we in the spec we should say that if you have type one and length 32 by it should refer to this format and and then we Define that the first 16 bite will be the Genesis block and then there will be a legac like can sub Network and then we just follow that spe and there won't be any ambiguity there because you you have the have this as a DLT and then you have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "length and in when there's 32 you have the genes B there's no way there will be any conflict so the uh identity is unique here so so when clarifying question you're saying that the the length of 32 would actually indicate a type format beyond that right so you're merging two things together you're merging the type Val so a length of 32 you say will will be a Genesis block right that is both a length and a type because you are fixating that 32 can only be used to identify Genesis block with no other formatting I I think you'd find a lot of push back when this gets reviewed in the larger ATF is is double using that particular field the I think the genes block is 16 bite so if you have 32 here there'll be uh can uh Thomas can you go to next slide uh yes this one this one here yeah yeah yeah when there 32 it will follow this format so in this definition if you have type one and by 32 it will follow this format so the first 16 bite will be the Genesis block and the others will be rest so w you uh make it a bit more concrete so let's say you were trying to represent the the eth and and Etc Forks yeah you using using this the complete thing right so the the the type is going to be the same the first eight bits is going to look the same the second eight bits is going to be it's going to look the same yes but the remaining 32 bytes are going to be different because it has different Genesis block a different Genesis block right or block before fork in the case but the point is that the entire thing actually represents different networks you have to read the whole thing uh into from the the left side to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "the last bit on the right hand side and they're going to be different yeah in fact they're going to be they're going to be different precisely in this one the 16 are going to be different in the Genesis so so so the whole point of the identify is you have to read the complete in in this in this example 8 832 the the first eight the second eight is going to look the same identical but the 32 afterwards within that the 16 are going to look different yeah so the first two bites will be the same then from the third bite it will be totally different for the two block chains that's right and and what Wes is saying is that the nature of tlv is that we cannot say ahead of time that if it's 32 bytes it's going to be you know e h or EC because in the future some other guy will say well we also have 32 bytes and if we're not ethereum right then what then what happens right so Alexandre um yeah so what I I wanted to say is that um having the hash of the Genesis block might work for blockchains but um how would we address the concern um given traditional databases or networks yes that's that's the draft that you're going to write Alex uh okay so Wes it's your turn all right so here's from an ETF protocol planning point of view right we have when you have a type field it should specify the format beyond that so I think what you are saying and I would support this right is that if type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "one is dictating the format of the value field so that it's always parsal right if you see type one then you know that the value field represents this then the way you can specify that is type one must always have a length of 32 right don't use the the length of 32 as a second identifier that's where you're going to run into a very large firefight in the ATF when this goes through call right so but you can say type one has this particular format of identifier and the length must be 32 type two you know might have a a different sort of format but the type field should indicate how to read the rest of it now it doesn't mean that you can't have a second type right option b is essentially a second type where you know uh let's say the monolithic non-blockchain type that's a database we'll say that's a traditional database type right might have a type of something a variable length and then you know some subtype for the banking Network or whatever that that it might be beyond that but but the first type has got to distinctly say this is how you interpret the rest of these values and and most from an inter interoperability point of view then you can say well I don't understand type four right that wasn't in the specification it must be something new I can't do an asset transfer with something I don't understand or I can treat it as a generic blob uh you're yeah I totally agree with what Wes said ER we haven't discussed option b yet um but I actually cringe when I see it because it looks to me like we will have two identifiers that are really equivalent a readable name and and then h a hash of something that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "that's really a non-readable version of the same thing and people will make shortcuts and uh this could easily become a security issue people will only interpret the readable name um or or will only interpret the other side uh it's better to have a single identified that's what we need all right wer back to you yeah uh well first I actually West pointed out that length may not be needed and actually today at 6:00 a.m I was talking to Thomas is length supposed to be uh changeable or not and we're debating on this one if length is fixed and that would be great that simplify things that means that we only have type of net and it's default to 32 then we we simplify this I I support that that would be great uh and then if if then for two by we can Define another type so it simplifies things a lot so I think that's a good thing and second thing about this uh uh the option A and B it's either option A or B we are debating on whether we have option A or B and I still think option A is good I think the identity should be something that's liable by machine and then can be mapped to a human readable thing so uh because the readable name may be changing uh they call it may be change to something else and if they the community want to change it so I think it would be good to just say that it's a fixed identity just like mac address you just have something that's very very fixed then you can map a map address with a IP then map or DNS domain name so that that is doable and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "then and then we just for this identity just make it fixed the machine possible and then unique and then self self verifiable that's my thinking option A and B should be either a or b um so there's no ambiguity over there Thomas did you next a uh I I actually prefer option A so just to be clear option b was a thing that that then is floated you know yeah it's convenient but but I think um W is correct I mean if you have in option A you can always you know read the hex and go back and and create you know the the readable name right but but back to the earlier comment for for the draft J it looks like the second bite which is the length is not needed you're right it redundant right but I'm thinking well you know we don't know what these monolithic endpoints are going to look like in the future right so you might have I don't know you might have a banking Network in in Asia you have a banking Network in you know in Europe and they're using different um uh you know values for the for the third sequence the end bits are going to be different right so so I think we need the the second bite the the L the length is always needed because you know we don't know we don't know what it's going to look like you know for the other systems thank you w the real question for me to The Design Group is right now is is that format that you have on sort of the next slide usable by all three of the existing types"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "so right so so is this length so I understand that so you keep talking about you know option A and B but you're really talking I think about type one right or maybe I'm confused does does this breakdown of those remaining 32 bits work for every type of existing Network that you can think of I believe that that in the future of of the protocol right you want to support other types why you still the length field even if all the existing types are 32 wherea did you want to go back I think yeah this one is for type one only as it that's defined because type type three basically doesn't have this Genesis block but the idea can be expanded to the type three uh the idea is is that this value need to have something that's embedded and and then something that's computable from some Identity or embedded parameter and something that is defined and I think for the type three even you have a monistic legacy database if you give the if supposed database has some identity by allcal database they can just give hash something and then give that 16 by as the hash number of that system and that will be unique and then they can Define that system so I think it can be easily expanded uh to to other to type even type three just say that we have uh have to be computed and have to be defined and then they can Define it depending on the type they Define uh so so this is about uh the the kind of uh can this be expanded to where it's type or not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "thank you Alex uh yeah so just wanted to bring some arguments in favor of option b I suppose um and there actually counterarguments to some of the concerns raised I uh posted them in chat as well but essentially for uh parsing right as that I heard that was a concern um so I would wagor clients and routers would be implementing the network to um identificate list as an enum so even the variable length wouldn't necessarily be an issue so you know especially if we have the length in um in here and then with the storage um because yeah you're right you know having a variable length maybe makes it more difficult to um estimate the storage requirements and stuff like that but you know with the way the hardware has been evolving over the past years I don't see this being a problem necessarily either um so so yeah I slightly prefer option b to have the readable name there as well but you know happy to hear counterarguments I'm not fast on one option or the other I think both could work where yeah Alex I I can respond to the the the is the storage problem because I know uh this ID right is not on the main system it's it's everywhere like for example you may need to uh in the hardware wallet right it's just a small USB device you need to put the uh Network identity over there into the side sign for different blockchains so if you make that thing change too much then the the hardware device will have problem the handheld uh Hardware wallet will definitely have have problem so it be good to have a fixed fix NS and as small as possible no these are practical things yeah okay yeah I see um I was considering"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "like even um the hardware devices that we have nowadays they have like a huge storage capacity for this but um yeah you know could be an issue I suppose if uh the number of networks was large enough who knows how many networks we're going to have in the future thank you Alex Wes yeah one more point from thef cont the ATF has a fairly strict um hashing agility um requirement now so that when you say hash of a Genesis block you need to also have a way to indicate what type of hash is being used so that in the future when one hash goes you know one mechanism goes away for doing cryptographic hashing that you can replace it with another one in case for example a hashing algorithm has been broken um that you know but way back in the day md5 was used a lot right and then that was you know decided that we could no longer do that so all new protocols that have hashes in them pretty much have to have some other type mechanism for saying this hashes of you know of this particular algorithm or something like that which you can do with a type field by you know creating a new network type with a different hash as well but just uh from a designing point of view make sure you have a plan to explain how you're going to do that to the to the larger I ETF when it gets reviewed thank you s it's good point I don't think we have anyone else in the queue has everyone commented or or raised what they wanted to okay oh uh Rama you have your hand up yeah can you hear me yeah we've got you okay uh Alex a quick point on enum so do you need I mean somebody might use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "that readable identifier as the enum identifier right do you actually need that readable identifier to be inside the tlv that's one question I had another question uh no so it would be the whole the whole tlv identifier right would be probably just a a string in an enum definition but yeah okay that's what okay oh so then uh as long as part of it is readable you think that'll be easier for for people to for the coders yeah yeah that's that's my that's my only argument it will be easier to read both by humans and machines okay uh Thomas can you go back to the previous slide please uh was this meant to be a comprehensive list of types I'm just wondering because I think uh we can definitely have one more type which is a private close type that is uh DT but non blockchain so just one I mean uh we can have more types right yeah yes there's eight there's seven bits you can play with so whatever to we got a lot of types you know we don't okay thanks yeah Ju Just like back in the 80 early 80s there was no IPv6 and then you know run of you know address block so we don't know what you know you know what in in 30 years 40 years what it's going to look like all right seeing no more hands or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "questions um it sounds to me like the work is definitely coming along but there's a lot more to consider and think about as well Thomas do you have an estimation of like when you think the design team would be done and ready for a final presentation to the working group now I'll remind the design team that the working group gets the call right so they can completely reject the design team if you can't make your case but that's just you know uh unlikely but I'll just give you the as well wer Rama what do you guys think Alex I mean do you think we could be done by I don't know January or or the the March ATF could we like fix up the draft yeah yeah probably probably even earlier just need to focus on acute feed few key details yeah I think it should be yeah we should doable but I think we need to kind of discuss potential Show Stoppers right for example type or length or combine because we have so many we have two bites here a bit plus a bit we can put type and length together if you just call it type there a kind of a bigger type then you basically have type and length together you have different length you ctif find as a different type so those are the things that we probably need to kind of decide early I I think both are fine with limited types both are fine but if we can just say that hey we want to type a l then we can kind of Define the rest just prevent some of the Show Stoppers and then this uh option A and B we need to kind of decide those early as well um so these are the CH challenges other than that I think the technically there's no issue the process there is I think it's just no is it's just deciding is the the challenge so I I'll remind you to be very clear when you're saying things like you know option A is this format"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "that it's only for a particular type right type one so as you make your your report and presentation toward your conclusions you need to be very clear that that this format goes with these types or whether the format applies to all types so just food for thought all right so that sounds good I I would say if you guys could shoot for March um that's certainly puts the working group on a good track for for getting this completed as well as you know show how it gets integrated into the core protocol and used you know as um um especially in like some hypothetical example and I would I would brainstorm heavily about uh you know what the right lengths are for all of the fields you know is is 8 bits enough of a type for example I think that a lot of people will question that it certainly can be but you've got to convince you know the world that there's not that many future types um same thing with uh value if you only want 32 bits that's great but you have to convince the world why 32 bits is good for all types of the future and then none of them will be variable in length for example where they won't need the length field so you know lots of things to think about um it sounds like you guys are making good progress uh with that why don't we shift to is there any other business that people want to discuss today we've sort of Hit the bottom of the agenda uh thanks to the sign team for the report and we'll have a longer discussion of course coming up in it18 with many more topics but anybody else want to fill 15 minutes with some other question or [Music] discussion Rama um so I uh uh I responded to uh Victor uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "actually was trying to draw his attention to uh your comments few weeks ago about the DNS use case so as identified there I mean there are several issues with the or rather incompletely defined the way the way is defined the use case so I'm not sure at this point if it is ready to incorporate in the document uh I was hoping for a response from him maybe even if it was this meeting he could have discussed the use case but um in without that uh I'm not sure if uh it's ready for uh inclusion of document yet uh do you or Thomas or any [Music] other uh So speaking with respect to the DNS related example you know within the ATF if including a element doesn't have consensus of the work working group because you know people think that there's problems with it or not uh then it simply won't go into that round it doesn't mean that that can't be worked on and and published in a different venue but if the use case document is ready to be published probably along with the others um we don't need to have use cases for everything you know Under the Sun if some of them aren't really well explained yet um so I I do hope Victor responds I actually might see him next week um I can is next week and I think he frequently attends he attended the last I can so I suspect you might attend the next one so I may run into them maybe we can have a chat about it there and see if we can clean it up a little bit it is a good use case if it's at least well defined and how it might work so yeah I agree if you can have a chat yeah that'd be great it's a as you say it's a it's sufficiently different from the other use cases that we have so it makes for a very compelling uh example um yeah it would certainly be good to to show the diversity of of the ways that the protocol could be used definitely okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "thanks all right any other business okay uh CLA you're good anything from your end guess she's good all right uh thanks everybody for attending to today and um I look forward to a longer discussion at i118 for those of you that will be there not everybody can make it of course all the time but I remember that all you know uh active discussions that have conclusions do have to be reviewed on the mailing list so the mailing list the mailing list in the ATF is the authoritative source for where decisions actually happen uh so when we get things decisions that happen in the room at 118 if you're not there um we will make sure to uh validate those and ensure that a discussion on the mailing list can happen for anybody that um disagrees and wasn't present during a particular meeting including this one so all right with that I think we'll go ahead and conclude thank you all for attending for the [Music] day thank you thank you byebye see you guys bye thanks everyone bye"
  }
]
