[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "we don\u0027t [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "[Music] please take your seats [Music] Lorenzo Canasta close the door please Thanks all right good afternoon everyone hello and welcome to DNS service discovery this is Barbara stark and I\u0027m David\u0027s Knaus II and we are about to start talking about TN SSD before we begin we do not have a minute taker yet could someone volunteer thank you we set up the meet echo of the SIV etherpad with the agenda and if anyone else wants to jump in and help in on that please please feel free I\u0027ll be supporting there on etherpad so you\u0027re not alone and the blue sheets are going around please make sure you sign them so it is Thursday afternoon hopefully you\u0027ve seen the note well bye now this meeting is covered by the IETF note well if you have not read it yet please do so it covers things such as patents and what your responsibilities are in the ITF and also very importantly the code of conduct with which this meeting is going to run so usual reminders anytime you talk at the mic please state your name clearly for the minute taker and please review the documents that happen this working group that way your documents will also get reviewed and signed boo cheats so here are some links for people following online did I get it wrong every time I saw your email this is so more useful links for people still following online yeah quick usual shout out we have a github organization for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "the working group and anyone working on a draft in the working group or that wants to be in the working group is welcome to set it up there just talk to us and we can make it happen our goals for today we\u0027re gonna have an update on our currently active documents both in terms of standardization and actual running code and then we\u0027re going to talk about discs about service registration and discovery relay and we\u0027re gonna have fill up the rest of the lot of time with the future of this working group and the privacy efforts and what we want to go so that\u0027s the agenda is currently stated would anyone like to bash the agenda all right Stuart please stand on the pink X otherwise the Acme anvil will miss you this is an update on our push notifications document we discussed this at the last IETF meeting we\u0027re on version 19 we had working group last call to review that that went smoothly David requested publication when I actually review last call we got some feedback we made some updates and that\u0027s what I\u0027m gonna give a quick overview of right there push escape yeah there\u0027s not a media program is cheap okay so this is the timeline I don\u0027t need to read it out you can all read here\u0027s the summary of what\u0027s new we realized that the whole document focuses on the mechanisms of push notification which is fine what it neglected to mention is the reality that any client using this if push notification is not supported is going to fall back to using the regular DNS query to get the same answer that\u0027s kind of obvious but it didn\u0027t say that so we added some text that says when you do that you shouldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:24",
    "text": "pull more frequently than once every 15 minutes and that\u0027s just to give some guidance so that we don\u0027t end up with ridiculous burden on servers there was also a mismatch in the documents late in the process the DNS stateful operation RFC added some explicit text about when TLS early data is permitted and when it\u0027s not because there can be risks with replay so you only want to use it for idempotent operations and there is a requirement in DSO that you state which DSA operations were allowed in the early data and we had not updated the push Draft to include that required language so we did a bit of thinking and we figured doing the SUBSCRIBE is not something that will cause harm if it\u0027s duplicated and the performance benefits of saving the roundtrip may well be worthwhile so we put in the required text saying we\u0027ve considered the security implications and this is fine with TLS early data so those two are easy the big topic was I think I hope a storm in a teacup but it turned into a long email thread and what happened here was we heard copied text from the DSO document this is based on where in many places it says if there\u0027s a fatal error you should immediately abort the connection with a TCP reset or equivalent for other protocols and in DSO as in this document we are we may be a victim of trying to be too thorough in stating all of the rare corner cases that should never happen but if they do happen what you should do about them Martin Thompson has written a draft recently that Title II something Postell was wrong or something to that effect it\u0027s been renamed to something less controversial he was most he was mostly write about many things but I happen to agree with martin thompson on this one that being liberal with what you accept particularly for the first implementation of a thing anything you\u0027re liberal about other buggy implementations will probably accidentally do and if you accept it then all those bugs become entrenched and then you have an ecosystem of lots of buggy code I think for the first implementation of anything you actually have a responsibility to be strict and reject invalid input because in effect your implementation is the conformance test the ITF doesn\u0027t have conformance tests and certifications that have to be passed to get to use the ITF logo and your product so we have very little enforcement\u0027s of our protocol in effect "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:24",
    "text": "the deployed implementations are the conformance test because somebody coming along to make an implementation is going to test it with yours and if it works they\u0027ll ship it and if it fails they\u0027ll debug it so early in the game I think it\u0027s really important to enforce all the things you want to because anything you don\u0027t enforce you don\u0027t get to enforce later so with that spirit in mind in many cases the document says if you do something completely bogus then the other end is going to reset the connection so if a client connects to a server and then sends it a response that makes no sense tear down the connection don\u0027t even bother with an error code because that is something that the programmer is going to debug by looking at a packet trace this is not a runtime error that occurs in the field it\u0027s just a gross programming error and you fix the bug so there are many cases like that that I think a lot of specs wouldn\u0027t even mention we were trying to be really thorough and we put this text in Robert sparks pointed out entirely correctly that DSO is general and could in principle run over any transports for push notifications we have specified for now only TLS over TCP running it over something else would be a future document to update this so Robert said since it\u0027s only for TLS over TCP you can remove the equivalent for other protocols because there aren\u0027t any oh good point okay we\u0027ll delete that text that\u0027s easy in the ensuing discussion David helpfully said well if you\u0027re using TLS you should send us close notified instead of reset which for a graceful close is true but here we\u0027re talking about really fatal error conditions that should never appear except in the development process and hence a long discussion went on the mailing list and a lot of off mailing list discussion too I just want to confirm there yes I didn\u0027t have the full context in that comment so as a result of this which was quite valuable I went back and did a pretty thorough review of all the places in the document where it talks about a reset and worked out what what the context is there was some discussion that instead of tearing down the connection the server could use the DSO retry delay operation to tell the client you are grossly buggy go and don\u0027t talk to me for half an hour there was some debate about whether we can expect a grossly buggy client the kind of client that connects you and immediately sends you a response may not pro the rest of the protocol as well so that is a question that we can\u0027t answer it\u0027s speculation about implementations that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:26",
    "text": "don\u0027t exist yet that are very buggy there was also lots of discussion about while the client can enforce the delay and that turns out not to be as easy as it sounds because you can\u0027t tell to subsists two successive connections could be from the same clients or they could be from different clients behind the same NAT gateway so all with ipv6 they could be different privacy addresses on the same device or different devices the whole point of privacy addresses is to obscure the identity of the client so if the server can tell it\u0027s the same client twice in a sense privacy dresses aren\u0027t working so it\u0027s hard for the server to enforce that I also when I looked through I found that out of the 12 cases seven of them are the client tearing down the connection because the server did something bogus so clearly in the case of the client tearing down the connection it doesn\u0027t need to tell the server don\u0027t call me back because servers are not going to connect the clients so so the end result of this is for the seven bogus server messages where the client just gives up on the connection and either tries a different server or Waits those are now back to saying send a reset five of them are bogus things the client does three of those are the client sending responses to the server which is so bizarre that if you look in most specs if you look in RFC 1035 there is no language about what to do if a client connects you and then sends your response it\u0027s just so silly they don\u0027t mention it we do mention it and we say if a client does that you just give up on the client all right sending a fin then puts the server in close wait state while it\u0027s waiting for the fin to be acknowledged and if a client looping doing bad things that can end up to being quite a resource burden on the server which is exactly why web servers do not send a fin because they don\u0027t want to have their burden of maintaining that state so so the client sending a response is bogus the client sending a push message is equally bogus because that\u0027s a notification which should go the other way and the last one here is the only one that I think is somewhat debatable and that is if the client sends two identical subscribed requests and I want to explain the reasoning why we had the wording like that because as I said we don\u0027t have conformance testing in the IETF my fear is that some developer might get lazy they\u0027re busy they\u0027ve got a deadline and they make an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:27",
    "text": "implementation that does not sit check for duplicates and you could easily imagine oh we\u0027ll fix that later that\u0027s not important right that\u0027ll be a version 2 feature if we don\u0027t want that to happen we have to have some safeguard in place that will cause that developer to say hang on now I can\u0027t leave this for version 2 because my clients going to break so that is the reason for this is to be unforgiving about our requirements that clients should suppress duplicates we do not want to climb that ends up sending a hundred identical requests to a server because of a bug and if that happens the server should protect itself so that is the summary of the changes I would welcome any feedback I would also welcome complete silence because that would indicate there\u0027s no disagreement and of course we won\u0027t make any final decisions here in the room you can also comment on the mailing list ok well I\u0027m really happy that that\u0027s uncontroversial which it should be at this stage in the process we will go ahead with publication of that I also saw on David\u0027s agenda it said hackathon implementation report I don\u0027t have a slide for that but I can verbally tell you Ted and Barbara and I had a productive couple of days sitting together working at the hackathon the code we\u0027re working on is on the hackathon github repository if you go to github org slash IETF - hackathon you\u0027ll find the MDS responder repository there Ted and I have been working on code we have running code that you can run on Mac or Linux we\u0027ve also been building it for open wrt we have these neat little GL eye nets home gateways buy at the size of a pack of playing cards that run open wrt we have pre-built packages for that so you can try it out we did demos at the hackathon and we also went to the hack demo happy hour on Monday and had a table set up there showing it to people you can try this yourself at home I\u0027m a firm believer in living on software that\u0027s how you find when it doesn\u0027t work I have now switched it using one of these GLI net routers as my default home gateway my Mac and my iPhone are set to connect to that by default whenever I come home so I\u0027m normally on that network without thinking about it and that GLI net home gateway is running the discovery proxy it is not forwarding multicast it is in a normal configuration it\u0027s running DHCP it\u0027s running Knapp there\u0027s isolation between the land port and the wine port but with the discovery proxy all the stuff I do on my Mac and my phone printing scanning anything else that\u0027s using bonjour discovery it just works and anything that doesn\u0027t work I find it and then we work on fixing the bugs so in Ted I think we said that Friday morning we\u0027re going to start plugging "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:29",
    "text": "things together and if anybody wants to build a load and bring a router and plug it together we\u0027re going to be meeting in the code lounge at 10:00 is that what we said thereabouts ish and try and plug things together so you\u0027re all welcome to help plug my question Stuart so if I understood what you just described that you have plugged this device wired LAN part into your existing home network creating two layers of router yes okay and on the wireless or maybe the wired port you now can see the devices which are on your on your original network what is nominally labeled the WAN port yes on the gel I net is plugged into my existing home network great just just wanted to clarify that you didn\u0027t I would say well what\u0027s the utility if you\u0027ve just replaced your home router with one of these they\u0027re it\u0027s all on the land side so what does it mean I got you now thanks for the clarifying question yes that the utility is twofold worn for me and Ted working on this code the utility is testing it on a daily basis in terms of why anybody else would do this looking forward to the broader picture of why we\u0027re doing this work at all one benefit I get of that compared to how my network was is my client devices might my laptop and my phone are doing all their discovery with unicast so on the Wi-Fi link where multicast is slow and inefficient and unreliable because it\u0027s not acknowledged and very wasteful of shared spectrum because it sent so slowly I\u0027m now not flooding lots of multicast traffic onto that Wi-Fi I\u0027m keeping the Wi-Fi clean doing unicast to the Gateway and then on the Gigabit Ethernet that can handle tons of multicast no trouble I\u0027m still using legacy multicast discovery for the devices on that Ethernet but the client devices on Wi-Fi are not being bombarded with lots of multicast traffic they don\u0027t care about all right thank hi I\u0027m Ted lemon I\u0027ve been working with Stewart on all this fun stuff so one thing about the plugfest on Friday is that if you want to come with your open wrt device you probably want to do a build before before then because it takes longer than two hours to do a build so there\u0027s code you\u0027ll there\u0027s a URL at the end of this slide slide deck that that points you to the repository and you would want to download our Fork of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:31",
    "text": "open wrt and build that rather than attempting to do something more adventurous at the plugfest and if you have any issues with that that\u0027s my email address and I\u0027m happy to answer questions so I actually have well just on the introductory slide here briefly I have three things to talk about various different bits of work that we\u0027ve been working on over the course of the last couple of years discovery proxy discovery relay and Service registration protocol so I\u0027ll talk about discovery proxy first so so the discovery proxy I assume most folks here know what a discovery proxy is but just to recap my discovery proxy is a device that receives queries using DNS on port 53 and asks questions to answer those queries by using multicast DNS and so this is an important goal for a variety of use cases the case that dragged me into it was home net and so we\u0027ve implemented a nice fully featured en SSD discovery proxy it actually uses mdns responder to do both dns lookups and M DNS lookups and then so when you send it a question on port 53 it goes out and does whatever it needs to do to come up with the answer using mdns responder which is Apple\u0027s open source DNS all-singing all-dancing stub resolver and so we\u0027ve implemented listening on port 53 for DNS queries listening on port 853 for DNS push connections so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a full working implementation of DNS push over TLS and it also does something that I wanted for for home net and it doesn\u0027t accidentally like I didn\u0027t actually plan it out this way I just plan on writing a discovery proxy and then figuring out a way to wedge a DNS server in alongside it but it turns out that since F DNS responder acts as a stub resolver for DNS and mdns that I could just use that for both authoritative service and recursive service and so this basically is a swap and replacement for for DNS mask except that it now does proxy as well so it\u0027s pretty sweet and you can try it out anytime you want runs on Mac OS it probably run on BSD but I haven\u0027t tried it it definitely runs on Linux and as far as things that can do queries against it pretty much anything out there that does DNS service discovery can use it however "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:31",
    "text": "we also have implementation on various Apple new Apple devices that will do DNS push so you get not only do you get just regular old service discovery but you also notice when new things show up immediately rather than having to wait 15 minutes for for a retry and so and the code for that is in the open source mdns responder distribution that\u0027s on the the github however the support for dns push needs a little bit more TLS glue to work on sort of the posix side of things that stuff\u0027s all working on Mac OS X but it uses the network framework on Mac OS rather than using sockets and so that there\u0027s a little bit of additional work left to do there so before I go on to the next thing does anybody have any comments or questions about this sounds like No okay so the next thing is discovery really this is actually kind of old news but I just wanted to mention it for completeness we did a discovery relay implementation kind of last year and the purpose of the discovery relay is basically to do something very much like what DHCP relay does to provide a really stupid thing that you don\u0027t have to update all the time when you add features that consider in your router or whatever and a full service M DNS resolver can contact it and do em DNS through it too a link that it\u0027s not connected to so some folks have suggested that you could do this with a with a layer 2 tunneling program or protocol or something like that and that\u0027s very true and if you have that available to you you really don\u0027t need this but it does seem like a useful feature for a fair number of use cases it\u0027ll it takes advantage of IP routing and to end and it doesn\u0027t require any special filtering to avoid having it open up a bridge to services that you don\u0027t want to bridge so so it seems like a valuable thing it\u0027s we haven\u0027t really talked about in the working group for a while in any detail there does seem to be some interest from some router vendors I don\u0027t know how serious it is it would be nice if we get to publication but it really depends on whether the working group is actually interested in reviewing the document if not probably try sending it through the ISE so I\u0027m not really inclined to ask the group here to tell me whether they love this thing or not because you know you may or may not have read it\u0027s probably makes the most sense to just talk about this on the mailing list but I\u0027m bringing it up here so that so that when you see the message on the mailing list you\u0027ll know what the context is so the implementation as I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "said it\u0027s we did it about a year ago it\u0027s on the hackathon github repo but it\u0027s on an outdated branch I\u0027m in the process of making of modernizing it to use the new code that I\u0027ve written and my hope is that that code will be available for you to try out if you want to before Singapore comments or questions my name is Joe Cheshire I know you said you\u0027re not asking for comments on this but I feel I want to share my opinion with everybody and as co-author on this clearly I\u0027m biased but I think the work we\u0027ve done with discovery proxy is very viable to put in open wrt for home gateways for the enterprise market convincing enterprise router makers to put this in is a much harder sell and also probably not a good idea because once it\u0027s in it won\u0027t be updated until that router goes in the dumpster ten years in the future so and for those who don\u0027t know this was this was Ted\u0027s idea and I co-authored document with him but it was Ted\u0027s idea and it\u0027s kind of inspired by the bootp relay which has been enormously successful for enterprise deployments of DHCP I think this small simple focused piece of code we have a much better chance of evangelizing this to the enterprise makers who who we want to reach way back when this group was chartered that was one of the goals was to improve discovery and enterprise networks so I definitely think we should push ahead this work is basically done we just need to adopt the draft have some people review it last fall or as you say go the independent route I would prefer to do it in the working group Tom made the comments can\u0027t you do this with VLANs and I think we should add some text about that in the documents if you already have a setup where you have VLANs configured and trunk ports and maybe some enterprises and if you run their DHCP by having VLAN trunk ports instead of poopy trail agents I think a paragraph or two discussing the pros and cons of when you might choose one versus the other that\u0027s a useful addition and then I think we\u0027re ready to publish because we have fairly good shared documents and we have fairly well tested code yep so to comment on process here this is adopted as a working group document we had a working group last call ready and it failed due to lack of interest so the issue here is that pretty much no one apart from the authors expressed interest in this work with I think Tom had some comments but it was very sparse and what we\u0027re asking us at chairs is for people to comment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "like oh especially like this is aimed at the enterprise market is there anyone making these devices that thinks this is useful but you don\u0027t have to commit to I know I want to deploy this but just saying that this is useful would go a long way yeah that that\u0027s where we are I personally and not as chair believe that this is a good document but if we want to forward it as a working group item we\u0027ll need more people to speak in favor of this so you can either do this now at the microphone or on the list whichever you prefer Tim Rotenberg just a quick comment which came to my mind when Stewart taught at the mic so if this document is intended for enterprise vendors then those routers or whatever it\u0027s supposed to run probably have the ability to do violence or something like this so actually I think we should yeah it would be interesting to hear if there are good use cases which are not covered by this because so I don\u0027t have a particular opinion about if that\u0027s a good or a bad idea because I don\u0027t know this problem space well enough but I think it\u0027s something to consider if we are not aiming for like customer premise equipment but for enterprise grade hardware something like this that the question is can it be solved there in other ways already Michael Richardson um I\u0027m sorry that the working of last call was so silent and there\u0027s issues probably the the people that we need the enterprise reviewers that we need are just not in this working group but writing email to some people that I think may care um I don\u0027t actually think the VLAN thing is terribly useful for organizations that are running many campuses in many places there in Canada today you may know that there are significant issues getting VLANs out to places and multicast traffic is significantly unwanted it\u0027s probably yes they probably have VLANs yes they\u0027ve probably filtered multicast out that\u0027s exactly what they don\u0027t want on their satellite links to Northwest Territories right okay so this would be quite attractive for a number of things where I think service discovery is simply not happening period and so it may be a decade another decade before you know enterprises that adopted enough such that everyone says oh we actually can do service discovery in these distributed enterprises well that\u0027s what we were charter to facilitate so yeah so let let let\u0027s try to to socialize the document a little bit more you know outside of the I\u0027m gonna say the home net is she you know provenance of some of this working group and back to that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "space and perhaps we can get some more some which working groups would you suggest well that\u0027s an interesting question right so EMU might be very a good place to reach some people because it\u0027s the same problem of you know with 1x going over EAP to do authentic authenticated join of the network okay now that you\u0027ve joined you know what would you like and that that whole model is the same model right that you you you you kick back we don\u0027t we don\u0027t punt EAP messages back to the controller with a VLAN right we do it over radius same same same architectural things so that that may space and maybe just we don\u0027t as a group have those right and enterprise people but we do have some people that just you know we always know this problem the ITF we don\u0027t really have enough enterprise representation and enterprise operators or Christina unicorns right so so Ted are you willing to send some additional emails out to additional working groups to tell them about this work or well I think so what I would suggest is a way forward is get to the point where I think that everything that I need to do the document is done which may be a very short step I haven\u0027t actually reviewed it in a while just you know due diligence and then once that\u0027s done then yeah try to get I know that there are some folks from various places that would probably say yes to this but we need to actually get them get them roped in and so yeah oh but we should we should probably start a last call and and then I should do the roping and because otherwise they\u0027re gonna come and comment and they won\u0027t be commenting on the last call and then later on when we do the last call because this did get actually quite a bit of comment at one time but so this I mean and speaking press chair and procedurally it didn\u0027t feel like there was a whole lot of comments I\u0027ll go back and look at the list but if you get people to comment and say that they\u0027re interested in this work it doesn\u0027t have to be in last call we can consider those as last call or as statements of interest interest doesn\u0027t need to happen during last call okay yeah young Commissar did did send us a review about six or eight months ago I will take another look so maybe once you have done your next round of changes reach out to all those folks and reach out to us and yet we can start another last call that\u0027s fine but if you get people even outside of last call to send those state like i\u0027ve interest to the list those will be very valuable okay I think it\u0027ll be fine to start another wgl see all right so will will will update the document and then send a request sounds good thank you Thanks yeah and I\u0027m just gonna echo the requests for the people here it would be helpful to review it I just had to look "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:37",
    "text": "it\u0027s only 29 pages so probably no more than an hour of reading and if people have contacts at enterprise equipment vendors who are not involved with this working group which is understandable that a lot of them they wouldn\u0027t think they have an interest here if you can send us those contacts we can reach out to them individually thank you composer Terry the reason I brought up VLANs was because I know from experience that people our operators have taken a long time to troubleshoot to learn how to troubleshoot bootp relays and this is another thing they have to learn how to troubleshoot and so it\u0027s not the same as troubleshooting the gup-e relay it\u0027s a different thing it\u0027s a different problem but VLANs is something they do already know how to troubleshoot and there\u0027s two other ways I can also think of solving this and that\u0027s by GMP proxies I\u0027m sorry like I do a proxy over a tunnel of a regular tunnel and AMT automatic multicast tunneling and but these are a link-local multicast AMT if there\u0027s a there\u0027s RFC on it which is a way to join a multicast group over a unicast link to and then when multicast islands together and and that will work for for link-local multicast yes so but anyway that doesn\u0027t solve the problem that Michael brought up about sending multicast more it\u0027d be more multi guess than you want you would have to filter if there is multicast you one didn\u0027t want yeah I mean it\u0027s all just packets when it\u0027s going over the transit link anyway but but the problem is you know you you want to make sure that you\u0027re not sending anything more than you need to and also I mean honestly setting up a TCP connection to some device over there seems like it\u0027s a lighter weight problem than configuring a special tunnel and setting all of the filtering correctly and getting you know so so you know it may be that the right answer to this is that we just have a document that says how you set up the tunnel and get filtering right but then you have a point solution that only works on certain kinds of devices so like the device has to support IGMP tunneling so there\u0027s multiple ways to solve this problem and you pop your document should probably compare them sure I think that\u0027s good okay so by the way I just wanted to point out in case there\u0027s confusion remember that discovery relay and discovery proxy are two different things discovery proxy is the smart thing that actually like does multicast resolution on the local wire and discovery really is the dumb thing that just relays the packets and let\u0027s there lets the aggregation and resolution stuff happen on a smart server and you\u0027re in your machine room or wherever so all right so moving right along so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "the other document that I\u0027ve been working on is the Service registration protocol document and Tom very kindly did a review of the SRP document a couple months ago at this point and I was right in the middle of hacking on something and there were deadlines and life got away from me and so I didn\u0027t actually look at it for a while after that but I\u0027ve done some updates and there are some questions that I think it would be worth discussing so some of the updates are really stupid things like the document was referring to services DARPA and it seemed like the when we were doing the implementation I actually I had forgotten that it was services DARPA and so I typed service tower and it just seemed to make more sense and so the document actually now says service DARPA instead of services not art but because it\u0027s one less letter and I don\u0027t see any real reason why it needs to be service as DARPA but you know if anybody objects to that please let me know and then the document now adds support for TLS so if you want to do SRP updates over TLS you can and there\u0027s a registration for DNS SRP TLS TCP dot you know DNS name so for SRV records so so that\u0027s already been added to the document there are further updates needed to the document so I\u0027m gonna just go over tongs comments a bit Tom so the document was written by me as I was doing the implementation so of course I had a lot of state in my head and it all made sense to me Tom read the document he\u0027s like well this doesn\u0027t make any sense at all and he had a really good point which is that I use the term update well Stuart and I I think Stuart and I both both worked on choosing the terminology for this section and neither one of us really noticed that the update language was a little bit confusing so so I\u0027m thinking that we need to change the name of the things that we\u0027re calling updates right now we have two things that are called updates the actual SRP update message which is the collection of all the things that are to be updated and also the individual DNS update are ours and so what I\u0027m proposing is that we either make sure that we always say SRP update when we mean the whole message and we always say our update what we mean the RR update or we just call it an our ad instead of an RR update I don\u0027t really have a strong feeling about that sometimes the problem with calling it an ad is that it\u0027s not always an ad sometimes there\u0027s already an RR there and so it\u0027s really an update but I think that\u0027s relatively harmless so it\u0027s a word that comes to mind is register because this is a registration protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:41",
    "text": "yet there\u0027s nothing in there that is a register so we could call the the whole message an SRP registration instead of an SRP update I like that all right hopefully that will show up in the minutes otherwise I\u0027ll probably forget but thank you that was a hint okay Tom also found the discussion of the whole validation section a bit confusing I don\u0027t really have any questions about what to do there I just didn\u0027t have time to do it before them before the cutoff so I will do that when I next wrap the draft which will be soon Tom asks some some really good security questions this is the first one the question was you know why are we not sending this why are we sending this in the clear why are we just making a TCP connection and I hadn\u0027t even thought about it so thank you for pointing that out and as I said I add a TLS support to the document my next question is should we require TLS support should we not even offer the option of doing it over plain TCP anybody have an opinion about that yes you have an opinion about it okay I think if it goes off the land it should be required all right but if you\u0027re gonna do you know something on the land like with EDP I don\u0027t think we have a way to do that test and and you know if we care about keeping the information I mean the thing is this is a this is a record that we\u0027re publishing which will then be able to be looked up so it\u0027s not like it\u0027s really a big huge secret so there is an argument to be made for it\u0027s really not that important but timber laying for Keith Moore yes required TCP always even on land no no think TCP or TLS okay yeah okay all right all right well I\u0027d say you know from the perspective of voting we\u0027ve got a clear vote with this would be opportunistic security so so it doesn\u0027t need to be signed certificate we\u0027re already requiring it for DNS push and the current implementation that I have for DNS push the current implementation that I have or DNS push does not check the sort it just takes advantage of the of the you know if you have an on path attack or the on path attacker will be able to intercept your connection and violate your privacy but but at least it makes it more expensive to do that yeah we\u0027d have to describe how to do that I think that that it might make sense to describe how to do it with certificates but if we did that I kind of like to do it using Dane and and I\u0027m not really ready to write that text so that\u0027s why that\u0027s why I\u0027m punting but if somebody wants to offer text you know we can talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:42",
    "text": "so Tom brought up another security issue which I think was a really good one that I hadn\u0027t thought about which is that we currently are just asking for a global anycast address so if you send a message so oh sorry a little backstory there\u0027s two different ways that SRP works one of them is that we require TCP for for fully featured SRP clients so the client is required to connect with TCP and then we get a three-way handshake and that means we know that we\u0027re actually talking to who we think we\u0027re talking to and they\u0027re roughly where they where they claim to be however for IOT devices requiring the full discovery process is kind of painful and so I came up with a way to on IOT networks only support this global anycast address update and the idea there is basically the client just doesn\u0027t the client doesn\u0027t do any service discovery at all it just sends out an update and it says hi I\u0027m offering this service here\u0027s the information good luck and by the way it uses a domain of service it sent its DNS update server to the service DARPA domain that\u0027s that\u0027s where that comes in so and that\u0027s like really lightweight and I\u0027ll tell you a little bit more about just how lightweight it is because it\u0027s kind of awesome but the point of that is that is that I just allocated a global address and so now this this IOT device is sending this update message and if there isn\u0027t some things sitting on path intercepting the message to the anycast address it\u0027s gonna go out to the internet right this is okay it\u0027s just gonna get routed somewhere onto the backbone and then eventually get dropped but possibly not before some malefactor sniffs it and figures out that you have light switches in your house or something and you know we\u0027d like to avoid that we don\u0027t want some malefactor to be able to sniff your your traffic and know that there are light switches in your house and you just told us it\u0027s gonna be TLS over a TCP in the previous slide okay so so - two different scenarios here one is the all-singing all-dancing SRP update scenario the other is the the constrain device update scenario so I\u0027m talking now about the second the constrained device update scenario and the constrained device update scenario we\u0027re not doing TCP or we\u0027re not doing TLS at least in principle maybe that\u0027s the wrong thing to do I think that you should we you know we you and I had some AIIMS yesterday or something about this document and the core resource discovery process yeah and I don\u0027t think this is a useful feature based on what I now know our discussion back and forth I think that when you\u0027re saying you don\u0027t think this is a useful feature you mean I don\u0027t think that this is something that it couldn\u0027t be a device a IOT device "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:45",
    "text": "which is sufficiently constrained that it can\u0027t do TCP and TLS should be doing on its own so so we have categories weenus 72 28 you know aside because it doesn\u0027t actually give us you know classes to describe the devices that are above it but essentially if you can if you have enough energy to run Wi-Fi then you have enough right need you to run TCP less the use case for this is not that you have enough energy to run Wi-Fi right so what I\u0027m trying to say is if you are that class of device then I think you can just fall into category eight which was which is used TCP and TLS and the normal discovery that we do sure okay if you are not at that level uh-huh then there is probably there has to be some kind of a gateway just to get your data from right you know the internet that we all love to the network that you\u0027re doing yes so that device can do resource discovery from you in a energy efficient way and can do service discovery proxy to the rebels so so there isn\u0027t a way to do that okay so I\u0027m saying is that Gateway can be the thing that is translating between what what I would what this the the purpose of this is to do Service registration protocol from the edge device understand that it is not to do service is not to do some kind of mapping between core Rd and Service registration protocol maybe I don\u0027t understand the space of things because I that well enough and I but but my feeling is that that I think that the problem that you\u0027ve created with the anycast and I we had the whole anycast discussion I think it wandered into six-man and all this kind of stuff yeah and I\u0027m and I\u0027m actually quite upset that we don\u0027t have a good to answer to the problem that you just have said mmm I think the answer is we need a ula central address right look server that it gets dropped correctly okay see that\u0027s why that\u0027s right I understand that so I think that\u0027s the right answer you know to the problem but before we do that I\u0027m not actually sure this is a problem we should solve is what I\u0027m trying to say or that so working group should solve without more thinking and and back and forth Stuart do you want to step up to the mic yeah this is something where I can give some more backgrounds as many of you know Apple has some home automation work or with the home kit products and right now they use Wi-Fi which is good for AC connected products and not so good for battery powered products I and that this right now is a pet project of mine I have been interested in looking at ways that we could make home care more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:46",
    "text": "battery friendly and that\u0027s why I\u0027ve been attending the thread group meetings for those who don\u0027t know thread is something that came out of Google Nest it\u0027s a mesh network layered on top of 6lowpan which runs over I Triple E 880 or 15.4 which are core to make a bit wireless technology similar speed and range and battery consumptions of Bluetooth but has a benefit of being more IP friendly which is why I\u0027m predisposed to like that and then I\u0027ve been going through this little thought process of if we wanted to run home care on thread what would we need we don\u0027t necessarily need a gateway to the Greater Internet I could imagine a just a self-contained thread mesh that doesn\u0027t even connect to my home Wi-Fi but it allows like switches to control life via IP packets on that mesh in order for that to be done with the homecare protocols the light switches have to discover the lights that they\u0027re turning on and off and homekit doesn\u0027t use core Rd homekit uses DNS service discovery so this leads us to the question if we were to build homekit devices that are battery-powered of running on 8215 for how would we provide the facilities that they need and that leads us to this work which is how would you do dns service discovery without resorting to just flooding multicast everywhere and running the batteries down right so that\u0027s a motivation for for doing this work and essentially what we\u0027re offering here is just here\u0027s a lightweight way to do this thing on on a NATO 2.15 dot for network or something like that and you know it\u0027s it\u0027s not a huge change to the whole protocol in fact it\u0027s it\u0027s essentially the exact same thing except that you\u0027re not going out and looking up the SRV record you\u0027re just sending it to some well-known address so you know one option is certainly to say no you can\u0027t do that that would be kind of a weird thing to say but certainly the working group could say that another thing to say is sure go ahead and do that but you need to use a site scope to any anycast address in which case we have to go out and solve that problem which is kind of heavy weight or we can just make it something where it\u0027s not specified how the what what address is used but just generally speaking if you want to use this this light weight mode then whatever IOT or constraint network you\u0027re using it on is going to need to have a well-defined address to which these packets are sent so you know I don\u0027t know what to say about the whole core ID versus DNS is do you think that\u0027s really not it\u0027s I\u0027m just not even interested in core Rd so maybe I would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:47",
    "text": "be at some point in the future but I\u0027m not right now so so I\u0027m just interested in solving this particular problem and the question is whether there\u0027s you know whether it\u0027s something we should in fact solve personally I think it is I think it\u0027s useful I mean whether you think core idea is a good idea or not I think it is useful to be able to announce the presence of a device and register it as a service in DNS st michael richards again I\u0027m not as terribly clued in to do what thread is doing and they\u0027re very it\u0027s very hard to know if out going to the meetings and paying the large amounts money if you like to bring me I\u0027m very happy to go to no no but I am working with thread on enrollment things and they do a lot of things differently just for the hell of doing it differently so if if I were to learn that they actually have a service discovery protocol you know already I would I\u0027m almost certain of that as the fact so if you were to make homekit work under threat you would either have to convince them to run this or do something else okay so I think it\u0027s not entirely a particularly important consideration the point is that whatever I don\u0027t think it matters whether they\u0027re running SRP or they\u0027re running something else or core Ardi the point I\u0027m trying to say is that if there\u0027s going to be if it\u0027s going to matter to devices outside of that network then there\u0027s a gateway that is leading that process okay so I think that we could have that that that happened I think that\u0027s a I think that would be a better I think that would be better having said that I\u0027m not opposed to you going forward okay okay I think that if you don\u0027t want to go through the rigmarole of trying to find as I sight scope address mode and anycast that\u0027s going to leak sorry that\u0027s going to secure be secure when it leaks right then I think you should defer the work until we do that okay yeah this part of it yeah having said that I think we should do get the site netskope any past thing worked out but it\u0027s as you say it\u0027s going to be at least an hour and a half conversation in three different six-man meetings before we can have this happen all right yeah so so but maybe that\u0027s worthwhile yeah so basically the the status quo now is that we\u0027re currently using a global address and to Tom pointed out that that\u0027s a bad idea and I agree with him and so I think that the the expedient fallback and the one that probably makes the most sense is to just consider the use case that we actually have in mind and think about what would work there and the answer is a mesh local ula a well known address within the mesh local ula Stewart yeah Michael you have some interesting questions so I\u0027ll briefly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:47",
    "text": "answer them because we had similar questions when I started getting involved with this you might assume that the threat group has a discovery protocol defined they actually don\u0027t at all the way thread discovery in quotes works today with the nest thermostats and smoke detectors is that everything phones home to the cloud and the quote discovery is that which devices are owned by the same nest account in the cloud there is no local peer to peer discovery it\u0027s all mediated through the Clair so that was a disappointment because we were hoping to find something a little bit more fully baked with apples different priorities the home kit is built without a cloud service it assumes you\u0027ve got some brains in the house and nothing has to leave the house so so things need to discover them other peers on the network so that is how we went down this path which is thread has no discovery mechanism currently defined they need to define one to grow beyond their current limited use cases and naturally this is what we are advocating so that\u0027s how work now the feedback about the details here is incredibly valuable I agree that any address that might escape the house by accident definitely is not what we want a risk for privacy reasons so maybe for the thread case the answer is that the thread local network data conveys a configured address to the clients and they use that so for the thread case I think we can solve this for broader use cases this might still be an interesting discussion to figure out how to automate it for all link types just analysis I think that we have the the Rd and the the DNS st discoveries um have there\u0027s there dissimilarities but when it comes to the anycast address and having an R per domain for all those site local things I think we should sit down together and kind of compare notes on what we can unify and where we where we have separate ecosystems yeah definitely yeah so it\u0027s a separate conversation but yeah that\u0027s definitely worth doing alright so moving right along I think that the conclusion that I\u0027m drawing from this is that I should just say that we should use a mesh local address and that this document that\u0027s out of scope for this document but but generally speaking this is what we suggest so tom also pointed out something in Stuart I haven\u0027t actually had a chance to talk to you about this so I apologize for springing it on you on a slide but here it is anyway Tom pointed out that sleep proxy is not entirely compatible with what we\u0027re doing for SRP because as our doesn\u0027t necessarily assume that the thing we\u0027re updating is on the local wire and he was confused by that and I think it may mean the basically so so SRP is a router unicast protocol the DNS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:47",
    "text": "server does not have to be on the local wire sleep proxy requires a presence on link asleep proxy is essentially doing the same thing as SRP and that\u0027s why SRP and sleep proxy are in the same document but it\u0027s not doing entirely the same thing because we have to support the wake-on-lan feature so we need to figure out whether the right thing to do is have a sleep proxy document or to make things sufficiently clear that it doesn\u0027t trigger Tom and which by I mean with all due respect I\u0027m not saying that you shouldn\u0027t have been triggered you should have but but we need to make sure that it\u0027s clear enough that when you read you\u0027re like oh okay not what so does anybody have opinions on which write which path we should take on this Michael Richardson again I would say if if if it enhances this document it makes it more applicable it makes it easier for developers then you should probably keep it in the document the iesg seems to want us to have fewer documents so if the motivation for sleep proxy if the sleep proxy has an existence or motivation which could be deployed without this document I don\u0027t think that\u0027s true but if that was the case then I would say okay maybe it makes sense a separate document there if for some reason the document was monstrously too big and you have had the comment about two big documents aren\u0027t possible to review in advance then I would say it\u0027s something to remove but I don\u0027t think that\u0027s the case yeah I don\u0027t think so I think it\u0027s it\u0027s maybe it doesn\u0027t really gel with the rest of the concept but you know it it\u0027s a-you know I think it fits into the yeah the thing that we really want to add so sleep proxy already exists like if you have any Apple products they already have sleep proxy built into them but what we wanted to add to that was first-come first-serve naming and so really if you could think of this as just three separate use cases for the general SRP registration update one of them is registering to an SRP server that\u0027s that\u0027s serving possibly a multi subnet land one of them is register registering your IOT device that\u0027s on a constrained network and the third is registering with a sleep proxy and a sleep proxy is not an SRP server in the same sense so so essentially I think maybe that\u0027s a way to explain this that is less confusing does that make sense to you Tom okay so so in other words SRP updates are the same for all use cases however SRP updates to their there are three different things you might send an SRE an SRP registration to changing the terminology you might send an SOP registration to a DNS server an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:50",
    "text": "authoritative DNS server to have it add that to its database you might send it to your your what are we calling these things your board or router your constraint network border router or you might send it to your sleep proxy three different recipients of the same type of message that has the same essential features and the way that they\u0027re handled are slightly different but they basically all have more in common than than there that is different about Tim did you wanna I I agree with what has been said before so I think it would be better to have this stuff in one document but like clearly separated in in their differences because yeah too many documents don\u0027t make make make it better after all right yeah we did go down that path for a while on the ITF and it was exciting so if if the note-taker could could explicitly note that we\u0027re gonna have these three different use cases for the for the awesome oh thank you much appreciated alright so now now that we\u0027re done with the boring stuff so I\u0027ve done an implementation of the SRP client that actually I have running on a thread board as it happens and it\u0027s pretty sweet it\u0027s the hole the hole all the code is less than 10k including key generation and sig zero signing it\u0027s really simple it just adds one service and the message that it sends to the server is about 320 bytes so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s very compact and efficient for what it does I think and does seem to work I think I wrote something like this last year second year in Montreal as well yeah you didn\u0027t I might dig it out and people can see it but it was also pretty pretty simple one service and then but it used the protocol now did yours do the 6/0 part I\u0027m not sure I have to look back into it and maybe that it didn\u0027t yeah when I looked at the code that you had it didn\u0027t have six zero but I don\u0027t know if I was looking at the at the final version all right yeah if you need any help with sig zero stuff let me know ok so so that\u0027s the client side I\u0027ve also implemented an SRP proxy yet another proxy right so I wanted to be able to have to receive actual SRP registrations on port 53 and have them update an authoritative DNS server but I looked at doing that two by nine and it was actually a fairly big job I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:51",
    "text": "it\u0027s doable and and I\u0027m talking to Mark Andrews about that but I wanted something that was that was not basically I wanted something generic that could be put in front of any authoritative server that xx accepts dns updates and so I wrote some code that does that and so what the code does is it receives the the SRP registration and then it figures out what dns updates it has to do now the idea with an SRP registration is that the whole thing fits into one message because it\u0027s all of the all of the records are pointing at each other and there are no prerequisites DNS update allows you to use prerequisites to prevent data from being added to the zone that you don\u0027t want to add to the zone and you know and it allows you to do a sort of it allows you to do an atomic update of the database where you know if these pre records pre Rexes are true then do the update and don\u0027t change the database in between checking the prerequisites and doing the update SRP doesn\u0027t there\u0027s no way to do a single message SRP update with prerequisites because there are too many different things and and DNS update prerequisites don\u0027t allow you to do things like if-then-else so so what I\u0027ve done instead for the so the proxy is receiving a single message and then first it just tries to do the update straight and sets the prerequisites if nothing\u0027s there do the update and if that succeeds great we just did it if that fails or actually the first it does no change so it did the the the assumption is that the record is already there we\u0027re gonna send an update and the prerequisites are that the record is there and contains the same information as before and that can that can happen in one message if there\u0027s nothing there then that can happen in one message but that would be a second message and then the third thing that happens is neither one of those attempts worked and that means there\u0027s something there but it\u0027s not the same as what\u0027s in the SRP registration so now we have to actually go through and iterate and so it\u0027s it\u0027s this complicated state machine that just goes through and does all the iterations adds or or updates various records and if it comes to a kata to a situation where it realizes that there\u0027s something in the zone that conflicts with the SRP registration then it has to back everything out and send a failure response and on the other hand if it gets all the way to the end and doesn\u0027t have any problem then that was success and it sends a success result I\u0027ve tested I think I\u0027ve exhausted li tested all the various different ways that it can succeed or fail and they all seem to work so it\u0027s pretty sweet it\u0027s actually kind of fun to watch because you see like one SRP update come in and then like a bunch of events occur in the log that was fun future work home net integration we need to we were talking about this on the helmet mailing list actually h NCP identifies links it would be nice if the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:54",
    "text": "dns SD discovery proxy that was three implementations ago if the discovery proxy could take advantage of the information that h NCP is sharing packages for open wrt we already have them but there\u0027s still some some work to be done so that you can just install them and it just works without you having to fiddle around with it which currently there\u0027s a readme file that has a fair number of instructions in it so that\u0027s one bit of future work that we want to do another bit of future work is a fully featured SRP client similar to what Tim did except possibly we don\u0027t know whether he did sig zero or not so that would be really cool and it sounds like it\u0027s gonna have to support TLS also and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a big come out of work but needs to happen it would be nice to have SRP support in some DNS auth server and I\u0027m thinking by nine mark Andrews as I said has has talked to me about some work that he\u0027s been doing to make by nine support a wider variety of different kinds of update strategies and it would be kind of cool to add this in as another update strategy mark has indicated a willingness to to collaborate with me to some extent on SLO presumably I have to do most of the work so I\u0027m hoping that this will happen before Singapore but I make no promises SRP relay if we wind up having a link-local anycast address for the simple the IOT style SRP update you\u0027ll be awfully nice to have a relay that sits on the border router that\u0027s pretty stupid and just relays it to the actual SRP server rather than having to have an SRP server on the border router so that\u0027s that\u0027s my list of future work I\u0027m not promising that any of these things will be done at any particular time but they are definitely on the agenda and if anybody\u0027s interested in hacking on any of this stuff please let me know and also if you\u0027re interested in just like playing around with the stuff that I\u0027ve already got please let me know there will be some information on the next slide about that SRP the future of SRP so s RP got one review during last call thank you Tom and the chairs were really mean and decided that wasn\u0027t enough and so complaint complaint so it turned out that we talked about this in the home net meeting on Tuesday and everybody there seem to think this was useful and so it seems like we really could have gotten enough comments to make this work look like it was like it had support but we didn\u0027t because we didn\u0027t actually ask HomeNet to comment on it so we\u0027re gonna do that hopefully in another last call so and so hopefully that\u0027ll mean that we don\u0027t drop this and it gets published as an RFC so my proposal is I\u0027m gonna update the document add in the stuff that we\u0027ve talked about we\u0027ll do another review and try to include home that and maybe DNS op although that could be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:54",
    "text": "dangerous and hopefully that will result in us being able to publish this so that\u0027s all I got some good compost Terry so there\u0027s one comment I made that you didn\u0027t address that I think it should be addressed in the document and check that\u0027s it how do you delete a registration before the least lifetime expires and you may not want to do that yes yeah sorry thank you I spaced out on that and that\u0027s a really good point so in other words we want in addition to an SRP registration we want an SRP registration yeah maybe I well so so DNS SD / m DNS currently does do that right if you have a device that that is sending out an advertiser or has sent out an advertisement to somebody that it\u0027s on the network when it when you shut it down if it\u0027s able to send out a goodbye packet it does and I think this is the equivalent of that goodbye packet and I agree that that\u0027s worth doing you know it\u0027s just an omission so thank you for pointing that out and then the other thing is if there\u0027s anything that you learned extending update I would be interesting I think to incorporate these into a new version of update that other applications can benefit from and then maybe one day this can migrate to update through the new version of yeah I mean if we were if we had it all to do over again I mean I actually when I first started working on this I was thinking do we really want to do this in a DNS packet I wound up doing it at a DNS packet because it\u0027s just expedient it\u0027s less work there\u0027s already stuff out there that accepts dns updates and so I was able to test it very easily and it\u0027s all very straightforward if we really wanted to do dns updates right we would probably just have you know a doe thing that does dns updates and has like a more post mhmmm like a post yeah well yeah I mean sure but but but mainly that has like a more rich prerequisites language so that we can do a single update you know an atomic update to the database that adds everything at once and checks all the prerequisites at once and so we don\u0027t have the situation where I have to go in add things back out you know the worst case scenario is I add things that I back out but something else stumbled over something that I added in the process and it backed out and now everybody\u0027s unhappy we really want it to be atomic but there isn\u0027t a way to do that unless it\u0027s what\u0027s happening on the server the first-come first-serve stuff comes to mind is something that regular update could benefit from as well yeah yeah for sure yeah and actually I think Marc would be down with with adding that to by 9:00 so anyway any other questions should we move on to fate of the working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:56",
    "text": "thanks Ted all right so our last agenda item which can cover all the time we have left which is until 3:30 so 40 minutes is about the future of the working group so the Tom okay so Tom brought this up on the list so though thanks Tom that we don\u0027t have that much feedback on some of our latest documents and we were wondering so kind of where do we go from here we were considering for a while reach our during this working group and one of the main topics that we were considering for the new charter was the privacy work that said so that that is still a possible viable path forward but similarly there\u0027s not a it doesn\u0027t feel like there\u0027s a huge amount of energy going into the privacy work and so one option which I\u0027m not saying over and recommending any of these but one that has been suggested is to move that work somewhere else and close this working group so I wanted to hear feedback from anyone in the working group of what are your thoughts on this question what should we be doing I\u0027m looking for feedback from all of our authors but also from everyone else and then community Stuart Church again I want to echo what David is saying from a personal standpoint I think privacy is really important and I think in the last year there\u0027s been a lot more awareness of how important privacy is and I think that\u0027s only going to continue I thought about these questions of how to do discovery in a privacy preserving way a lot and I don\u0027t know the answers so I think it\u0027s important but I don\u0027t know how to do it if there are other people in the working group with good ideas and there\u0027s energy for doing this I would love to support that I I think it would be sad if we wrap up the working group or just as the whole world suddenly wakes up to the importance of privacy that would be unfortunate timing so I hope we can find a way to move forward unfortunately I\u0027ve spent a lot of time thinking about this and I have not worked out any wonderful answer that just solves all the problems and is also efficient and reliable at the same time Thank You Stuart Ted lemon so I actually I attended a side meeting yesterday the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:57",
    "text": "met up side meeting this is a group that\u0027s been meeting sort of associated with the IETF but hasn\u0027t really pushed to actually form a working group here and they are interested in this topic it might be good to try to get some of the people that are that are that show up for those meetings circled in on this whole DNS discovery privacy thing can I ask you to elaborate on what that group is about so they\u0027re met up what do they call it distributed something privacy it\u0027s very no yeah no distributor so basically it\u0027s ad hoc privacy so basically the same problem that we\u0027re talking about there are other smells related yeah really does sound related they working the the work that was presented there this time was all about coming up with and basically doing doing ad hoc keying so so some work that that Daniel con Gilmore has been has been doing with a bunch of other people on coming up with ways to do encrypted email that doesn\u0027t suck that has a good user experience which means it\u0027s less secure but but it\u0027s still it\u0027s better than nothing right so so that\u0027s interesting and kind of not what we\u0027re talking about there was another group that was doing something similar with instant messaging I think that the work that we\u0027re doing isn\u0027t exactly the same as the work that they\u0027re doing but it\u0027s synergetic with it like they could take advantage of what we\u0027re trying to do and they would probably be interested in what we\u0027re trying to do and they probably know something about the problem space and might be interested in working on the problems that we\u0027re working on too so that\u0027s why I say that they would be good people to talk to I think that even though they haven\u0027t actually gone down the path that we\u0027ve gone down I think if we said hey what do you think about this they\u0027d all be like whoo that sounds good thanks Christian Arita mom well I\u0027ve been the one trying for some years to get privacy walk to actually start into this walking group and I\u0027ve come to the conclusion that is not gonna happen because I mean we have been going for oil things now I think that we did some a number of things that should be somehow published and I think I will need to find a way in particular to publish the policy requirement documents that we had because they is the nicest air that could inspire other solutions but as far as the studying of solution I think that they would have to come organically from the puzzle group start doing any kind of discovery thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:00",
    "text": "Christian [Music] and that makes sense to me if we were to try to move the privacy requirements document publication could we could I have a show of hands on who would be willing to read that document and comment on it thanks okay so I think we can try that you\u0027re one of the authors right Christian on that one yeah yeah given the general level of energy on the project I mean that\u0027s expired but America could easily learn a new notion to say rehydrate the draft ya know like if you want to revive it and then email the list for comments I think moving it forward and publishing all of the because that\u0027s true a lot of thought and work has gone in this working group on developing these requirements I think public regardless of whether we come up with a solution or not I think publishing the requirements is a reasonable thing so Thanks so I\u0027m Michael McCool or Intel and also co-chair whether things working group in 33c and my interest in this is we are trying to distribute information about devices but want to do it in a privacy-preserving way in fact it\u0027s one of our requirements to get recommendations together some that we see but we fundamentally need a discovery service to control distribution of metadata and especially in the home context most smart city context and so this is kind of a funny no requirement for what we want to accomplish and we feel free consists of adoption so the real question is where does it work belong right so is it is it should it be an extension of DNS there\u0027s also work over in core on the core resource directory right and so in my opinion there\u0027s make two problems one is the service by some metadata and there\u0027s the question of how you find that service right and in some cases I see these things these functionalities merged together and I really think there should be a two separate phase with authentication in between because really what you do is get authenticated information to data and so I noticed earlier someone is saying if it\u0027s published that everyone knows about it\u0027s not secret anymore but actually even like a address as a name temperature sensor got got that local is a leak of information about you know what\u0027s available so I think it\u0027s extremely important but I think you know we need to think very hard about where it belongs maybe it shouldn\u0027t be in this group because maybe it shouldn\u0027t be dns-based we should be a new thing maybe you know should only be the springboard for the initial introduction to to a controlled surface so I think I think maybe we need to think of this as a higher level and think really hard about where did belong a group should be chartered to do a privacy-preserving discovery service that\u0027s definitely a possibility thank you come on back so I think this working group does valuable work and we\u0027re not finished with this so closing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "it down right now would just doesn\u0027t make sense and my my view I think there\u0027s we have a problem with the lack of participation at least on the discussion of the mailing list I mean today I think we got got a good discussion here on the things we bought brought up on the agenda but that\u0027s yeah that\u0027s I guess the problem and the question is how can we get more people maybe also from different angles and doing different stuff to to notice and also comment on the work which is done here yeah and I guess after all so of course not speaking for for him but I think Tom didn\u0027t actually want it the working group to shut down but just to give wake-up call on that that\u0027s that would be my guess because otherwise I don\u0027t know if he would be sitting here so I think yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s once again a good call to just see if we can get people interested in what we\u0027re doing here maybe they don\u0027t even know that there would be something which would be interesting for them which they could give use the question I cannot answer is how to get these people here and maybe some more experience the ITF community people have a better idea but I don\u0027t know you\u0027re agreeing here with my idiot on so in the lack of interaction about the privacy is kind of concerning ap to see that five people IP to to review it so there will be a good sign now typically in this kind of document you will not find the privacy people in this room but in other rooms the document can stay here but making some publicity on this document in other working group like Brian will do on deprive in a couple of minutes is good so it\u0027s up to you J as well to make some publicity outside so the we we have tried that in the past IITs starting I think actually Montreal a year ago and didn\u0027t get that much support from like other people in this community or so in the ITF community at large to come to this working group perhaps one of the reasons is that they care about privacy but maybe not in this specific context that then I\u0027m speculating at that point this was a minute Roy Fraser agreed we ran Singh Michael Richardson so I\u0027ll point out that sag is happening right now sorry on a psychic working group the security area where you can group is right now where conflict with it okay so you know more empty chairs than full all the people you wanted most of them are unless they came here because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:01",
    "text": "they you know I probably would have gone there but I thought this was interesting I was unaware I did read Christians documents I have a vision of actually thinking about it in my old office which I haven\u0027t been to in two years so I mean it was at least that long ago I was unaware I just assumed they\u0027d gone to last call and gone it I was unaware that they were stalled okay so I would support the comment that yeah the working group is having difficulties and but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s time to give up at this point and let\u0027s get SRP published there\u0027s only so many cycles for everybody in the whole and the whole thing and I don\u0027t think so we\u0027re certainly not done and I would encourage Christian too to take up the pen again as well and so um I think one thing that we were probably supposed to do probably me was to take Tom\u0027s Charter discussions that are in the github and start forwarding them around to the group to look into potential reach our during language to explicitly support the secure the privacy efforts here so I need to do that so tell them an a couple things one just to reflect back again what Pete no sorry what Mike said Michael anyway sorry I have several times missed the TLS working group because it was off to the DNS SD so again the likelihood of us actually getting the the really deeply committed privacy people in this room if we\u0027re opposite any sec area meeting is zero and so we have to have a heart if if we\u0027re serious about doing this work and if this is the working group to be doing it and we have to have a hard requirement that we have conflicts with TLS sag deprive you know pretty much any any working group that\u0027s doing anything with what\u0027s related to privacy and I absolutely agree and that\u0027s what we put into the data tracker but at the end of the way of the day I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any single slot at ITF that doesn\u0027t conflict with some security media yeah yeah so maybe that\u0027s a good thing in a sense so yeah so anyway the other thing to point out is that this doesn\u0027t have to happen at IETF meetings so one of the things we can do and I think I might take this as an action item is to actually present something about this unless one of the authors wants to at the next how to RS c so the like there\u0027s just a little more visibility and people actually join the mailing list and start discussing this with us as far as the energy to work on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "the document again what Michael was saying is totally applicable to my experience as well I reviewed all the documents I sent substantial comments on them and and then the work just just way I stopped seeing new versions of the document so it\u0027s not because I\u0027m not interested in the document and you know I\u0027m not saying this to blame anybody because I\u0027ve done the exact same thing right like I\u0027ve been busy working on implementations of all of this stuff and I haven\u0027t actually updated my documents as frequently as might have been desired so we I think that we have a lot of I think we have a lot of expertise in this room that\u0027s related to the problem space that we\u0027re talking about it would be ashamed to disband that expertise expertise however I think that the clock rate of this working group is not three times a year and part of the reason why it appears that there isn\u0027t energy to work is that we\u0027re just not working that fast it\u0027s not that we\u0027re not working it\u0027s not that we\u0027re not making progress it\u0027s just that we\u0027re not making progress on a pulse rate of every four months so I think that that that mere fact is not a reason to disband the working group thanks that makes sense and one of the things we discussed actually is that we don\u0027t necessarily have that much to talk about every four months so one potential option would be that for neck one of the next ATF\u0027s either we don\u0027t meet in person or we meet jointly with another working group which on Tuesday morning the HomeNet people who did meet actually suggested that it would be really useful if we could maybe just do a joint session with the NSS D and maybe have you know have a two-hour session like we have here and have 30 minutes for HomeNet or so yeah that sounds reasonable stur yeah I like those suggestions I like what I\u0027ve been hearing I think Eric right we all of us not just the chairs need to figure out how to publicize this I agree with what Ted said that giving a hot RFC torque is a great opportunity on Sunday night to introduce people and you said you already listed two security areas as a conflict which is good let\u0027s if we decide to continue for next time let\u0027s try to stress that more with the IHG because what I say about the work of this working group evolving is we have solved some of the initial challenges of less reliance on multicast and more reliable discovery and now really the remaining goal we have is this privacy work so we\u0027ve almost shifted from being a DNS working group into a security area working group and people outside this group have no way of knowing that if we don\u0027t tell them sure thanks Tom could I ask you to share your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:01",
    "text": "thoughts since you sparked this discussion on the mailing list yeah so I think my email was in response to the last caught working group last call of those two documents which were you know the main focus of the work of this working group and having been the only one who reviewed one of them and no one reviewed the other I was pretty discouraged so and it doesn\u0027t if you think they\u0027re good then it doesn\u0027t take a lot of work to say I think it\u0027s good right that\u0027s all we needed but we got nothing and so that made me think well you know who are we doing this for and then made me think about well initially we had a group of people who came to us and said they had a problem to be solved and we solved it and we those people are gone are they deploying this do they have any attention to play it are they asking their vendors to implement it so they can deploy it and those are the questions that I think we need to answer and I think they\u0027re still unanswered thank and I guess so this from limited experience I suspect that those are markets that don\u0027t maybe evolve as crazy quickly as other working groups so to Ted\u0027s really a comment maybe giving them time is what\u0027s needed here yeah just one thing to say about the the adoption rate is that if nobody is using if if there isn\u0027t a device that can consume some of the stuff that we\u0027ve designed here then there\u0027s no point in deploying that functionality on your network once there is a device that can consume that then then suddenly it becomes more worthwhile so the interest let\u0027s see if there\u0027s additional uptake now that we actually have DNS Bush in iOS and Mac OS next generation and actually because that\u0027s a very good point that\u0027s maybe not obvious to everyone could someone from that makes handheld devices comment on what\u0027s currently supported and what\u0027s been added recently yeah Ted actually mentioned this on this slide but I agree it\u0027s worth highlighting it Ted has been working initially as a contractor and now we\u0027ve moved in hiring him full time ted has been working at Apple implementing this work in Mac OS and iOS and I\u0027m not leaking any secrets there because this is in the public betas so if you install iOS 13 or Mac OS catallena then you have a fully functioning push notification client and it will connect to the discovery proxy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "that we have running on open wrt and it\u0027s very pleasing for me to be able to turn services on and off and and see them update life on my iPhone and see that it\u0027s all working as it should one thing I forgot to mention is when we were off designing this protocol like the discovery proxy that Stuart Mosley designed the router and switch vendors were coming up with alternate solutions by taking listening for broadcast arming multicast on one network and sending them to another and they\u0027ve kind of went ahead and solved the problem many switches and in the in the routers and stuff in a non optimal way but you know that those solutions are deployed today in on campuses and so we have to have some sort of compelling reason for them to stop doing that and start doing this Michael Richardson a question will and I think this is an implementation issue question will I discover devices at my home when it connected to it over VPN okay wonderful that is actually a really you know kind of killer app yeah actually when I was demoing this an apple before are all the releasing occurred I used that feature and it was really awesome I did it I did a print print out over the internet from California my printer was at home and I had an IOT camera pointing at it I printed to it and the little page came out and everybody was all excited that\u0027s very cool I just wanted to mention to Tom\u0027s point that yes there are a lot of implementations of various hacks that purport to make multicast dns work on multiple links and our experience with them is that frequently they don\u0027t work at all sometimes they tease you by working a little bit and then failing I have never seen one that actually works so yeah I just want to expand a little bit on the funny story that Ted told he did this a demo for the guy in charge of our department and he wouldn\u0027t think it would make any difference because you could have a diagram on a slide with with boxes and arrows and things and saying the packets go here and this happens but there\u0027s something about the showmanship so Ted Ted had the live video on the screen of the key little camera pointed at his printer at home when he tapped their print on his phone and we could see the piece of paper come out and the whole room erupted in applause it was amazing so maybe what we need more here is Apple marketing okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:07",
    "text": "so it feels to me like there is some pretty good consensus in the room that there is still energy to do work and get documents published maybe not as a crazy fast rate but that\u0027s okay so my sense is to keep this working group open keep the mailing list open and then maybe we\u0027ll have a shorter meeting in Singapore will seem by the time we get there how many or yeah joint with home net that\u0027s it\u0027ll depend on what we get on the agenda so to our authors please don\u0027t wait to the day before the meeting to send us your agenda items that would be particularly helpful in scheduling us this time for how much time I want to have all right then we\u0027ll wrap up anyone else have anything they want to mention I really don\u0027t want to prolong this is Ted again but what I actually think is gonna wind up on the agenda for Singapore is a product as a presentation about how we\u0027re using the stuff in home net so it will actually not really be a home that thing or a DNS is do you think that a both think how fitting has anyone not signed the blue sheets and so to wrap up I think we got a sub in for we got a good information about the two upcoming documents the ones that are almost published so we\u0027re gonna discuss those more on the list and hopefully with that renewed energy we\u0027re going to get them published which is great and then Christians going to revive the privacy of Arvin\u0027s document so hopefully we\u0027ll actually see you on the list and not just in Singapore and hope to see you soon there thanks for coming and thank you to our note takers Michael and Christian number two or one to put you in "
  }
]