[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:37",
    "text": "honesty talking nope there you are perfect well now I am yeah now you are now I can hear you was the perfect part that's the problem with digital audio it's so quiet you can't tell when you don't hear the static in the background I guess we need to wait a few minutes for folks to join um I will do the making minute taker again yogish good evening we have two as you have all seen we have two agenda items for today we'll wait a few more minutes for folks to join but uh um you remember like I put forward two agenda items but um and and I think we would be happy if we if we managed to go through them uh the first one was about the draft submission deadline uh we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "these two documents to submit so we're going to look at those and then we also have the hackathon preparation which is um the hackathon is in two weeks so if you haven't registered for the hackathon yet please do so if you don't know where to register send me an email Hannah's the um registration for hackathon is separate then any one day registration we do for ITF or a week yeah that's a separate thing yeah you can actually only attend the hackathon if you want you can also just remotely participate that the hackathon it's also possible yeah yeah let me do that actually yeah let me copy the link because we would love to do it and then Hank brings his owl um it's not a real practical thing is separate invite it's free but you had to find the separate registration for it question is the uh is the hackathon a remote participation even close to being the same as being there remotely so of course it's possible uh of course it's always nicer to sit next to each other and if you have some questions but uh sort of done your head but okay I don't know Ray if you have a chance to I'm gonna try to make it I'm gonna try to make it in person this time and um and then the first and then Monday is the meeting itself and um right Monday early Monday is our I don't think it is Monday I think right it is it is Monday okay okay um and so that I thought maybe remote participation was was almost the same if not even better I don't know but uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "may not make it to that yeah if you if you can't make it then there's obviously no choice but other than remote participation but let me send so I just sent a link to the hackathon into the chat window and I'm going to send also the link to the agenda interchat Windows files so you can have a look I might stay because it's it's uh it's in my neck of the woods and so it's not too far away it's not in Japan okay thanks perfect yeah if you need any help with um navigate around the web pictures let me know okay I think we are we are good to go see Eduardo dick Bob hey John so I as I mentioned we have these two topics uh the submission of the of the documents and also the hackathon preparation um we had a fairly Lively discussion on the mailing list um um I don't think we will manage to get into that topic uh it's probably something for side conversations to see where this is going um yeah it was I since I asked the question I also kind of feel a little bit guilty um because that basically turned into a larger debate than I had fought but yeah that's what it is um I'm going to to use the I'm going to do the meeting minutes can someone share the screen with the PRS um so we're going to look at the architecture document for submission today and also on the use case document yeah I can do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "yeah Steve is uh it's faster Steve sharing it or do you yeah well he's trying it would take a few seconds foreign something's happening yeah hopefully it works I don't think I have the right permission huh at least I gave you the permission but it doesn't seem to work just a minute let me Miss Steve you you want to try it again another try let's see yep okay that works thank you Steve foreign so um as you can see on the screen um there are a few bits uh John I think your bull request um sort of vanished as you revoked it so you need probably need to recreate it from uh from the branch also yeah we can revert the revert if we need to I think it depends what happens to these other ones because if it goes first we revert the revert if we don't it's going to be different anyway because it'll need rebasing and it's all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "just typos and pluralization and stuff so yeah we'll go through these and work out what to do okay cool uh Steve do you want to sort of go through them and see which ones you can merge and then we switch over to the use case document if you're speaking we can't hear you oh oh he went offline okay John are you going to share yeah if I can share my Chrome that we're in right now I don't know what what problem we always have with uh sharing oh God that's not what we want that's what we want there we go can you see that yeah okay cool and we can also hear you so an improve it brilliant okay so the one we were just talking about um I just did since it's here um uh uh yeah where's he gone there's the list so um I got a bit ahead of myself because I was just doing typos um so got some approvals and merged it as a as a base we'll come back to it but just to say you know the kind of thing that is important in here just for submitting the draft is little bits like grammar knits there are quite a lot of places where we have singed statements instead of signed statements um you know transparency Services instead of transparency service so it's all just little bits like that that I thought would be necessary to get a clean look from the rest of the community um but we don't need to you know this is very unsubstantial uh sort of stuff so we'll come back to it I think we should do this before the submission um but it's it's just picking up typos so the ones that need a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "lot of discussion um I have done a bit as well yeah um I think that your changes are absolutely fine um I think the the only unsubstantial changes to change the roster in the same PR right right yeah and that if you could split that out at a different Pi then that's fine fine will do that's a um yeah that was a misunderstanding for me I'll I'll take that out great and then I'll and then I'll put it back into the um to the set and we can deal with after the meeting okay this is number eight 78 no this was 80. it was 80 it's reverted in 82. um okay yeah so I can either patch 82 and re-revert or just make a new one it doesn't really matter I I would um thank probably including um one question I have is including um the you are one of the what you what you are in ITF remind me you are the co-chair or chair right yeah yeah so reminding uh that I think we we said that we want to distinguish these two roles as a co-author of the architecture versus the chairs so yeah I'm happy to stay away from normative and large changes so I don't need that I was I I put myself in there and I signed off all of the commits for the um uh well you can see them for the purposes of the um IP Clauses and disclaimers and stuff but if that's wrong I'm very happy to remove it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "now probably we need all more more wider audience including all the co-authors and then we need to debate it maybe in a separate conversation so that's that's what I would say I'm not saying yes or no here but we need more discussion that's completely fine I guess I I understand and appreciate that and you are correct what that does mean because today is the deadline for submission that means we're deciding to submit a draft that is full of typos and grammar mistakes but if you think we won't get pilloried for that that's okay oh sorry this is saying I do not think that is the resolution I think the solution is to just cut out roster changes do you apply the pr and then budget I think that's that's yeah it is to me yes I'll make a new PR after the meeting with the changes but without the roster and if you two guys both ticket then yeah we'll make it I'm happy with that that's perfectly fine yeah we will definitely also talk about the the author list of the document uh or the two documents as we are sort of progressing through the work so so that's that's good um if we could go back go back to the to the list of four requests um I I suspect if we uh merge and so um definitely think about applying um the ones the earlier ones first to avoid having too many merge conflicts um what is the what is the Roy will main um and also like um that's mine that's just a branches that I have to finish off okay so this is work in progress still uh do you plan to merge this today or I don't think I'm finished for it today but I will see if I can get to it yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "okay I think some of the changes uh Roy I have taken in my PR about that registration discussion we had so but you might have more and more to it or maybe you have more intentions about modifying so no well let me look at what you have here Chris maybe I'll just leave Ben in mind on this one is I I like these changes I think they're good um but there has since been a thing I think Hank made a change to talk about authorization and split out what we used to have a role-based access control and stuff so there might be a small um contraindication that just needs to be checked with the current base yeah I'm not too sure about the world best in this conversation um because whether things are publicly accessible or not depends on the access rules for the transparency service which is where that chain however change I mentioned was made all right so I'll have to go through yeah okay so that one's a discussion still um removed tbds is 72. 72 so there's outstanding comments yogesh for you that's why that's held up is it uh yep it shouldn't uh no I have I think I have a oh is this reviewed most of the harnesses pull requests but maybe this one needs more attention probably well it shouldn't if you look at the files change like um it's always nice that if you if like if they're open issues if the open issues are in the issue tracker not directly embedded as to be done Cindy in in the document itself because um in this case it was even included in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "the in the suction subject headings and that looks weird right um yeah so she hangs Mark that as resolved so I like this change I would be happy to merge it I think it's a good idea um if that's not outstanding is there any reason not to accept this one I just thought of giving one one kind of it was just a minor comment actually I don't know what Hank and it it is could you please provide a suggestion for the meeting on Monday so basically what we have done in other drafts is wherever there is it to be done we have created an issue in GitHub for that section and added it as an issue number in the document itself yeah so that's what it's just a cleaner improved suggestion but it is nothing to block highness from submitting so I'm perfectly fine if it's amazing I don't think it's um it may sometimes help to include um a link to the issue but um often the issues are larger than they uh they are not sort of focused on the specific section so um so it's it's it sometimes gets complicated like we had with the discussion about the registration policy it was all over the place that was part of the problem um yeah so so it's it gets tricky so that's why we have the issue tracker but yeah yeah so basically what I meant was um for all the major dbds if you have a GitHub issue then instead of filling tbds in the document we say this we are working using this issue or this issue is tracking and refer to this issue that's what I meant is are we on the same page or not uh I just uh I just wouldn't like wouldn't include the two to be done in in the first place so that's why yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "yeah you don't run a question but how would you how would you track that there is something pending in the document there is a title or there is a discussion on something but that is it's a it's a work in progress document like the whole document is is in progress right I I think everyone knows that uh that draft a working progress documents yeah so I mean I think it's fine to include references to issues in drafts just personally but obviously it you know different folks are going to have different editorial Styles I don't think presence or absence of an issue Parker and the draft is a reason not to merge yeah of course I never said I have proved it so this was just an improvement but um it's not blocking my approval so I have a product here others need to approve as well by the way I just noticed there is no approvals or from the other architects on this call uh yeah this is on me because I uh when I I commented I apparently did not look at the file changes and of course you provided a suggestion for the thing you wanted to do so I am approving it right now um quick configurations to uh click the right page Okay so okay fine so we at least set enough to deal with that offline this seems like it's fairly uncontroversial now yeah great okay so I'm going through these are going in age order as requested so I'm rather than showing the listings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "I didn't I think um Hank was doing something in the background okay thank you Hank are you merging it or I can do that sorry yeah it takes some time until I um I'm mute here sorry well we'll get it done next one so 73 um removing the use cases I also think this is a good idea um we have a use case document um so having all of this stuff in two places in the architecture document just doesn't really fit um the discussion seemed to say you know let's have the section but just make it a link to the use cases document that seems sensible to me um and I've made a suggestion and Hank has improved on that suggestion so I think this is a great thing to put in it's not clear that it's actually ready to merge if we still have these these things to do well D string meaning like we just we removed that use case section replace it by um the snippet that you had above which is a reference to the use case document yeah that sounds like a good option to me and that's what I preferred that because in the core architecture document you need to say that you have taken use cases into consideration and that's why when somebody should go to the use cases section within the architecture and then say ah they have done the job but you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "have to go to somewhere else to find it which is fine but you cannot really skip line 153 beyond what which John has um John has added so I'm I'm in support for that yeah okay so um Hannis this is your PR so it looks like if you add the informative header and accept my suggestion what I've done you know clearly with this text here is I've just covered the software the iot um CC and the cold chain so it's all what was there before just in in high summary so if you accept those it seems like we yogish can can approve that in short order after the after the call foreign and then I've done that and you did it okay yes and I can improve it as well now let me approve it in the meantime right [Music] yeah guys okay all done now from my side oops cool that's ready to merge number 73. yeah let me note that in the meeting minutes [Music] [Music] changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "incorporating text provided by John since there is some compilation here and so that's okay we can fix that afterwards yeah probably complaining because we included the link directly but let's just stickers okay sounds like the typing is finished so let's go on to this one so um this is postponed so just to show everybody this has been discussed and proposed to postpone throughout the 117 so we won't discuss that one but why is this postponed have a look at this yeah um who's I think maybe Hank would be the right person to comment on that why he's on the call I suppose he received just one yeah but you know we've been discussing this for a very long time uh and now we seem to be postponing it again uh what so like I think it you may be unmuted thank you just received a call but it's not just the decision of Hank right uh it's a decision of the group to uh to make some progress on this topic well I mentioned that what was uh what I meant was what is in Hank's mind when he said please phrase as a dedicated issue and push up yeah this is a postman after what was running in his mind is it just but of course we can all discuss in his absence as well yeah my thumbs up is just focusing on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "the dedicated PR and whether it can get done for today was the other question yeah for action yeah it's like um I I don't know what the issue is with so the issue here like I can I can summarize the issue here and and I think it's actually unrelated to the to um what's that to to the main issue to find it to the main PR content uh so I I flattened this list uh and uh yogish was wanted to have it expanded as a list not I said uh but I think the sort of problem we can we can turn it back to what what it was but um the important thing here is to tell the reader like what are these what are these payloads like like we write them down as um pretending we sort of like oh we know so many different Technologies and abbreviations right but we need at least uh expand the acronyms so that the reader who is maybe unfamiliar with those Technologies or these specifications understands like what does like course with in total sales Etc what what does this all mean and then have a reference in there so yes you can just list it uh as such like sooner or later like at latest uh during the I achiever review people would ask you for references and they will want you to expand the acronyms which is kind of logical correct uh so someone has to do that I'm happy to revert the change so it becomes a list again if that helps but I think that's um a kind of a distraction from the original issue which we had been debating for a long time uh which is the question about these registration policies so let me let me revert this well I think at least put a comment in that we're we're working on expanding uh the information about these are like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "footnotes to each one I think might be enough uh for people to find them yeah I agree yeah I think we should we can keep the list and each one of them list can be clickable each item is a click uh clickable link which takes you to the reference in the bottom of the document where somebody interested in knowing and Json spdx would be able to go there and same for c bar sit and cause weight yeah be the right way of doing it yeah yeah but since you care about specific list are a lot so maybe maybe you have a chance today like to exactly do that so we then in a separate BR then we have uh this one expanded resolved and we are done with it and then we don't need to worry uh I can do I'm happy to do whatever you suggested but I'm not sure I will have exact full time today to do it so maybe you revert your this specific block of change and then we leave it like that for now and I do it maybe tomorrow or day after tomorrow whether you use these or not is is beyond the scope of the standard because this each one of these are very deep subject and you may have an impact sorry I I agree thanks yeah because honestly I'm sorry because honestly I didn't know what this this uh um issue was about yeah it was a little bit okay yeah so so okay I did it I so this is resolved uh so this is good um it resolved in the sense that we postponed it and I will add an issue to the issue tracker so we don't forget it um but so now uh are you now agree with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "uh with this VR yogish yeah I'm okay I I lost a kind of I lost my audio in like two three minutes so kind of lost the context in the middle my apologies but yeah I'm happy to kind of work on the pull request please create an issue yeah okay so let me let me do this this is 76. [Music] okay um so are there any objections to merge this prob request okay it was also like it's out there for a while already we talked about it at several meetings I was in a meeting minutes uh like and I thought that just to have something in time for the deadline I I put it in there in this case I removed I don't see anything um Ron can you can you approve this one how much this one I should say not this to the meeting um yeah okay let me approve it first so you have accepted all the changes apart from that list and then you have resubmitted or you have made the corrections right yeah we need uh approval from Hank before we merging we can merge it anus foreign I'm using LTE for my voice that was a smart idea and my wife I was the other thing not so smart and as we might want to do the fixed lint because it seems the linting is failing on this PR we cannot merge it unless"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "we need to work on this and as after the call Maybe oh anus are you there spoken into the muted microphone uh yeah uh I can so let's see what uh yeah well uh we can do that we can do that afterwards I just know that in the meeting minutes that we merged we'll be merged we will merge yes we'll merge if we are after um inbox and we had the discussion about the list of s-bomb Technologies yogish I know you India yogis you will be on the hook for expanding the list and adding the references yes but not not for today yes that will be a separate issue yes yes yes I will do that yogesh will expand the actions good perfect okay okay so next oldest um yeah this is from me yeah this is um so there was a fundamental bug in the spec where incorrectly different places we were using the term transparent statements where actually we meant to use registered statements or sign statements so I've done the correction or he has thanks to Ori he has reviewed it and looked it and approved it I think Steve has also looked at it but I'm not sure Steve"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "you have done an explicit approval or not if you have any more issues let me know otherwise and Hank has also looked at it my pardon all right knits in that one that I commented on let me just double check yes I think that has been taken care of as I remember I think uh Hank has himself approved it looked at it and corrected it I think the needs which you mentioned and this is which one sorry 77 yeah yeah so you fixed all that transparency statement terminologies or no basically there is a there was a confusion of what is issued by the transparency service and what is registered within the transparency service so registration is done for the sign statement and when the when the statement comes out of the um uh transparency service it becomes a transparent statement because there is a receipt part app and unprotected header so that Clarity was lacking in the document so I made it clear and unambiguous where where should what stuff should be going so that was the main motivation behind the pull request good thanks yeah so it looks looks good to me we used to be saying we were putting toast in the toaster and now we're actually putting bread in the toaster and taking toast out of it exactly that yes I was just confirming the changes that I the netside asked for were fixed and I'll give an object to him in a second okay in the background Oreo shall we wait before we carry on approval is required because your approval without your approval we cannot merge it 962 unfortunately and I am in multiple calls I am I'm trying yeah this is not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "funny especially today I mean who who means what mean people so I will approve 77 which I have reviewed but I'm wondering why I did not approve the check and then you can go or you could already go on so um in the formatting here are we doing 80 characters are we doing sentences because I'm just looking at 962 line 962 on that one okay we went to Nick I'm just trying to figure out what we're where we're breaking on sentences are we breaking on lines about 80 characters rather 962 we we try to reduce the width of the 959 I think we need to follow a consistent policy here which we defeated another document ID up but as far as my um I make sure I have a small sentences the answer is we break a sentence yes if that was the question and that is the answer so yeah if you realize that your sentence becomes more aligned than you want it to be and it's not breaking then maybe it might as smaller sentences it's also a good indicator right yes thank you okay so it's just if you can just fix 962 to to break on sentence if you want to reduce it great but that's not it was just a minor in it to just take a line wraps out uh easily like in editorial PR so it doesn't block this one yeah I agree that's you yeah that's fair yeah okay I will make a note of it in line 962 yeah okay this doesn't have a lint Problem by the way I have fixed the lens so we can merge it if there is a consensus with the architecture team now that you and hink have approved it so if that happens then then do it okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "I think has improved it so Ori has improved it okay shall we march on yeah it goes 377. thank you cool um so 78 getting newer uh I think this is the last the last one other than I need to rebase the the typos and put up a new thing so attempt to Define resolution the referencing from Ori it is how big is it [Music] oh this is the key ID issuer stuff so this looks quite large I'm not sure that we think we've got a chance of merging this ahead of the deadline maybe already if you can maybe not today because it's too short a time I would like you to present the changes explain what you intend to do if possible that might help divider audience reviewing it sure I I mean I think in general they've been discussed on the mailing list to some degree um you know essentially the problem is you have an envelope with some security wrapped around it and you have no idea how to discover the keys associated so you have to describe that for the cases that are relevant to skit and this one just covers did which are currently the only uh system that we comment on in the architecture as far as I'm aware it kind of sounds important to me though um very important I think yes it's very important the question is whether we merge it now or take somewhere in here with a suggestion that we should make a 117 discussion topic yeah sorry do you think you've gone through all the feedback pure satisfaction I I think so Christina from Microsoft gave it a review and she's definitely familiar with dids um yeah I'm pretty familiar with it uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "think folklore kids will be generally confused why is it still holding her this window was open I'm not sure find the door was open Steve turn your more unneeded sorry all good uh I'm I I don't really have a opinion on whether it goes in before or you know after we discuss it at 117 the thing to keep in mind is that we currently describe a did manifest document which sort of just doesn't really align with the current did specification and so this is a little bit more concretely aligned to terminology in the did specification and Christina even pointed out a few other places where it could be more direct in managing that alignment so I I'm kind of pushing to want to have this completed pushed into the and so we can have the longer discussion if necessary at 117. any any way uh regardless like this is this is always a work in progress the question is this pushes it further along as far as I'm concerned yeah this gets us closer to where we need to be yeah and we also like if you guys uh agree with it uh we also have one discussion possibility uh next Monday um like independently of whether we merged this or not we can still have a discussion next Monday um to talk about this and and maybe other topics as well hackathon preparation and so on and so on um because this is actually a topic we want to also address during the hackathon obviously the whole this identity management thing so let's let's just ask around um I agree with pushing this one off I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "would rather have it completed so so um like I would like to get a sense from the group here on the call what's the uh so we talk about decentralized ID uh I'm not super familiar with that I think I have the general idea but uh could we give an example on that no this is this is the whole topic we've always been talking about the deaths right and this is this is uh rhs provides some more details on the dits do you remember when we talked about like this did web did key message I remember but is there a uh you know an external reference again this this you know this is one of many projects I'm working on I'm trying to keep them all straight but the uh uh what is the Practical effect of this on a user of skit so this at the moment is just clarifying the terminology and discussion that's in the existing architecture to be in line with did and where we think it needs to be um it doesn't go any further than clarification and correcting some of the mistakes so I wouldn't treat this as hey simply groundbreaking but this gets us closer to where we need to be okay that that's why I'm suggesting we push this into the system completed Steve process how do we want to handle these kind of things do we want to work with these drafts deal with draft PR or do we want to merge and then have conversation there if we don't merge them we things that take a while tend to get very out of sync so if we think this is good enough for a draft my vote would be to merge it in as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "but that that's kind of the that's why I'm asking Chris procedurally how do we want to handle these kind of things foreign particularly merge yeah or maybe maybe you can go through the text a little bit on what you wrote to give us to give those a chance to look at it or to understand it uh sure so um you know essentially the problem statement is you have a signed message envelope of some format and it has a protected header and a payload and today you're going to be looking in that protected header or the payload to discover hints that you're then going to use to discover key material and then you'll use the key material to verify that envelope and then after verification of that envelope you can start to trust that these statements were made by a company that you believe is associated with that key material and the hints that you use to discover that key are usually the ISS field and the kid field in cozy and Hosey and so when dids were invented they made use of these existing registered uh claim names for cozy and Jose headers to convey that you can discover keys from kid you can discover keys from ISS if you follow the resolution process and dereferencing process you convert from a string to a representation of a public key when that operation succeeds you end with a public key issue then used to verify the envelope this is the same process that secures ID tokens and access tokens in openid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "Connect but you know importantly like the JWT RFC which is what you know oauth and open Ida connect use it just defined these registered claim names it didn't tell you how to actually get keys from them and so if we at skit don't make it you know consistent for if I have a identifier for a key that looks like this then I know how to get the public key then no one can actually verify any of the statements that we're making um and there could be many other ways that you might end with a public key that you believe is associated with a company um this is just documenting dids which are one of the ways listed in the current document you might follow a similar approach if you want to direct compatibility with openid connect and you might follow a similar approach if you want to direct compatibility with the header parameters that convey x509 okay so you can roll your own as well it sounds like right if that's uh if you have a method that you use uh it really doesn't matter as long as you're using some kind of uh distributed ID uh yes it's not specific to a specific did Matt did method you know the examples in the document used did example which is a placeholder for any good method that conforms to the specification okay so that's my that's my concern and it has been addressed and thanks very much for uh the explanation dick thank you harness so I I have to admit I I'm not at all familiar with did either um but but I do see a lot of software supply chain uh activity I mean there's a huge Corpus of you know software in the world today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "um but I I don't think I've ever seen a did use in the software supply chain work that I'm that we do at Rea uh the most common things we see are things like you know pgp digital signatures and uh xd509 digital certificates and digital signatures that are applied to software so I guess my question to you is is you know would would the existing Corpus of material have to change in some way to support uh did thanks so specific to the two signing formats you mentioned pgp usually pgp keys are either discovered out of band like I give you my pgp key or you go to a pgp key server that helps you resolve uh pgpk from another identifier like an email address um I don't skip doesn't support pgp in any format you know the envelope formats we're creating are cozy envelopes so I don't really uh I can't answer the question on like what's gonna happen for pgp the the documents that we're creating are about Cozy envelopes for x509 this Situation's sort of similar like I might get your x509 certs from going to your website and then installing them in my trust store um that's kind of like Gathering the key material out of band um so uh the x509 question is like that needs to be answered by someone who does the same kind of thing for x509 like they need to go into the details so that folks understand if you're trying to use x509 to secure signed statements or transparent statements you know how do you do that someone has to document that for x509 okay thanks uh thank you Rory I appreciate those insights I I will say that there's a huge amount of use if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "go to any Apache product for example they they frequently use pgp signatures uh right I agree yeah some kind of background yeah sorry good so I I don't know if introducing something that doesn't you know accommodate the existing practices is going to really help with adoption so that'd be my concern thanks right me too me too I think we need to have some kind of a backward compatibility uh if only uh you know as a legacy it might be fair that we're starting off with excellent and CA issued certificates because they have a well-formed way of trust and chain up to to Roots because the volume of of Roots around the world is just too many if we go to pgp or to self-signed certificates or we do SSH keys they need a way to distribute and that's where we get into discussions of did documents and self-signed certificates and how to cheapen up the whole model the working Charter does talk about whether we push towards a different identity mechanism and whether it be did web ion or DNS we don't care we're willing to have that discussion this change is about how to Crispen up the language in here about dig we truly believe that this is probably the way to distribute and deal with cheaper Keys the fact that that people believe that pgp as a key ring solution is going to distribute it to the size of the problem we're in I think is not going to bear fruit we kind of need a distribution mechanism and all that already is doing here is cleaning up the definition being in line with did as it's currently sits so people can now hang their head on it and say hey if I move from from JWT or to other things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "this is how potentially it would migrate forward having the text wrong doesn't help the argument it also doesn't limit us to say hey we've changed our mind at a later time yeah so you make good points Roy uh no doubt about that um but I really do question if if not supporting the existing practices that are so ubiquitous uh is not going to be covered in spit and I think we are raising a barrier to adoption and ubiquitous for software is caissued certificates at the scale we're talking about either code signing or whatever are all CA issues certificates that's the whole purpose of why Sig store was trying to create to try and come up with an alternate way that was cheap and free pgp is is seriously not in in the loop at this point unless we come up with a solution like Dad documents or so forth to move things forward I I did email for years and pgp was one of the things I had to support the amount of uptake on key Rings was just too low on email it is but on software I don't think it is I mean based on what just my informal experience on this I've seen tons and tons of pgp keys out there so I I can tell you from my own experience uh you know working in the energy industry pgp has been used since 1995 in um on the B2B side so arguing that is not an old technology it was written into the specs even self-signed certificates is exactly the same thing it's pgps all over again whether SSH or not we need to start having a discussion of distribution and this change does not restrict that discussion this comes up with a way to distribute the problem in a consistent way that scales it out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "okay well I I've made my thoughts known so I I think you know wherever we go is fine but I think that you know one thing we may want to consider is the existing practices that are so prevalent across the software supply chain today and whether or not we need to support those right out of the shoot so I I made that yeah known so I'll just leave it so I have to say I've said it before but I do agree uh I don't see why we can't make an explicit reference to supporting Legacy uh uh Technologies or techniques uh and simply you know not do any more than that because if I see a pgp key in there and I know the sender and I have that uh pgp uh uh public key that I can match that quite easily uh I don't have any place to get it if I'm an anonymous dude but at the same time uh returns that comes that comes back to our broader question it's then the transparent Ledger that validates the identity and it would have to change its configuration for every pgp key adds to its key ring to say hey our trust policy has changed and that to me gets at the other conversations we've been having so I'm not at first to your conversation I'm just saying that let's complete this so we can have the broader conversation of how do we light up different identity providers the only one at scale that we have today and I truly mean at scale is C8 issued certificates x509 yeah I I so Roy I don't disagree with that at all I just think we need to have something explicit in there that says if you're not doing scale if you've got a small supply chain where a bunch of people are exchanging uh you know pgp Keys informally you know they're emailing them to each other or whatever it is uh there should be something some capability in the spec"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "that says yes we can we can support that although it is not our uh you know that's not our first choice that's definitely not plan a uh but if uh you know recognize that there are going to be these uh functionality problems and limitations if you have that but the uh I think that gets back to the other conversation we've had which is how do I talk to a notary transparent service and find out what a key ring it would trust is and somebody would then have to put that as an open issue to add to the discussion of if we went for pgp style keyrings how would you distribute and share the key ring I'm going to hand over to Steve time check here so maybe just a proposal because there's no question of History I think part of what we're trying to do with skid is obviously create a new Baseline that leverages the best practices of what's available and I think we're also seeing more identity providers stand up that will help with where pgp had filled gaps in the past so I guess my proposal would be to not bring in too many open doors that might not allow us to establish a new Baseline and readdress it in the future if the x509 new identity providers don't actually meet the need that pgp had solved in the past so just kind of keeping it closed and deal with it if it really becomes a blocker well I don't favorite so I just I'm on record but uh that's uh we can move on if the group doesn't feel the same way yeah I'll just go I'll just say I just there's no way I could possibly support a proposal for an architecture that just doesn't doesn't have some method to uh support the existing supply chain practices that are everywhere today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "dick they're not going anywhere from what I see open up an issue and point into the architecture document where you think that is missing because right now there's nothing in there that states that as well the whole point of the did document solution is to light up these sorts of capability and as identities change and you issue yourself a new pgp key how do we track that the two of them are related is a future problem that we need to think about and write because currently the architecture document does not preclude any of those things you're talking about all this pull requests that Maria has here is create and strengthening the text around did that was pre-existing it doesn't limit anything else so I think there's a fundamental um disconnect here so I think there's a belief that these keys are used for identity and they're really not the identity is of an entity and they use these Keys as an expression to prove their identity so I think we need to resolve really early the fact that there is this concept of an identity of an entity and that there are methods to communicate that information about those identities and these are one of the supporting artifacts dick even in the software supply chain self-attested statements is insufficient the noun Dad to have third party attested which identity now Chimes into you know this and tracking identity as it moves with different key material is precisely going to be this problem and even if you say hey I have a self-signed certificate I'm going to use it for the next 20 years not everybody else is going to so we need to think through this I'm fine for you to open up issues for us to discuss but stating here that hey we have a roadblocker for existing technology I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "don't see that and I see this is just as a road forward guys um we are running on a little bit of time I'll give Neil the last word and then we need to close here yeah I mean I just wanted us to bring us back to the the issue at hand I I respect the the notion of trying to figure out in the future how we get backwards compatibility I it my notion is that we could have a way of having people um with dids or some other scalable approach um assert that a pgp key is of interest and that people should trust it and and do it kind of by by a branch like that but uh right now the the question is should we merge these changes and I haven't heard anyone explain why we wouldn't want emergency changes it sounds like it makes it consistent with the way that the IDS are currently talked about so I support emergency yeah yeah that that's a that's a good point I think what we in the discussion what we uncovered is that we also want to um have some text on supporting um but talking about like how the x509 certificates uh would be um would be taken into account and actually we talked about this uh um a few months ago and and obviously we need some text on how this works and and likewise for bgp um how this works as well so um and I would like to distinguish between the formats uh like x509 certificates is asm1 uh and the encoded structures versus uh the actual sort of hierarchy and and how the different uh certification authorities are relate to each other how you distribute trust anchors and so on and so on um so so that's I think those are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "separate issues and but in any case we need some text yeah yeah those are all separate issues people should propose texts that people think is useful or scalable or whatever but we should merge this yeah I think I think so too it will um Steve uh who's Steve are you no sorry I was just commenting it sounds like there's enough Baseline here to merge so that we can have incredible decisions on top of it but I'm I'm also hoping uh to see the text for the other things right uh like we talked about some of those things in the past and it takes us a very long time to come up with some text that we could actually review and I think we need to get better at that writing texts so that I couldn't read it and then we can advance the uh our documents we didn't even manage to get to the use case document so I I'm I have to rely on the authors of the document to submit a version today I want to put some highlight on that in the uh old uh incubation repository um so I didn't dare to Archive this because someone was working on it dedicated there's a new ah Jesus Christ now my headphones are dying yeah yeah sorry um so there's this other it hasn't been discussed the offer has not requested any uh incident time I think uh I mean I will try to reach out and ask if uh we should have some agenda time on this use case [Music] yeah in any case I made a new version I think you are one of the authors aren't you yeah yeah so new version submission is not a problem okay I just wanted to point out the the actual problem that which I don't know how to deal with right now so we have to defer to the meeting if you just wanted to resubmit the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "current traffic okay um yeah we are over time um I will schedule another meeting for next Monday if uh that's okay for you and uh whoever um those who have time uh are happy to join and we sort of like talk about the hackathon uh because that will be then um kind of imminent and so yeah okay uh thanks a lot for joining and um for staying over time and just we'll watch for Action items this morning to try to hit the deadline tonight so yeah yeah we'll be on slack wherever you guys can poke to get some quick reviews perfect thank you thank you thank you update the document architecture top level on top of that yeah I will fix the bugger introduced somewhere in the document sorry about that nobody's yeah thank you talk to you later yeah thank you is this ask you guys to see find a different form or working group for this whole company identification conversation it doesn't really belong in skip like is the chairs doing that yeah well um yeah I would uh John and I and and probably the fathers will try to figure out what we should do with this topic uh it's kind of the discussion kind of went a little bit overboard uh yeah I'm fine with having the discussion I just don't think it's in our Charter at this point no it's it's a good discussion um and I learned a couple of new things so so that's excellent but uh obviously not like a totally trivial topic so we'll ask for some guidance from others who worked in that space so can you put something back on the mirrorless saying hey you and John are working on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "trying to find the appropriate working group for this uh sure sure and then of course the next IDF meeting would be a good time for us to figure this out on what the bright place would be yeah I can't it it has to be more than just Roy saying hey this is the wrong spot to be put in having a discussion yeah yeah well uh John and I were definitely um have a discussion about this and then post something to the list it's a good idea thank you very much thank you all thank you thanks bye"
  }
]
