[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "on because i would say that kyle's was flipping so it may just be local conditions i actually figured that you were that you're you were dropping a little bit from uh because of your internet connection that was my assumption but it's so minor that i wouldn't worry about it you're perfectly audible yeah that's let's not discuss ethernet today that was that was the other technical challenge of the morning but we're just going to say that apple needs to figure out their usbc implementation again and leave it at that all right so should we uh shall we get started i guess yeah have we succeeded in finding a volunteer for the um taking of notes i do not see anyone yet so i guess we gotta shake the tree we can't move forward with the meeting until we get a minutes taker uh yeah dude thank you jake except for speaking oh wait man you're not are you speaking or no yes or unless you've found it i am speaking i i am uh this one is less involved i hope but yeah actually if you could cover notes while if there's any questions that come my way that would be helpful thank you and mike says so too yeah um great yes and everyone is free to please go in and um work with the oops as we go to help fill in the blanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "as useful and necessary and take a little load off of jake but thank you jake all right so um i guess we should note the node well well um remember reminding everyone not only about the um patents and the um the requirement to declare any knowledge of um ipr and encumbered technologies which you'll i'd like to end up covering a whole lot in this discussion but that is still an iot requirement and any discussions here can and will be used as part of the ietf uh proceedings um and uh in particular i'd like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we do have a code of conduct um and the url is on the slide for the code of conduct and how to contact the ombuds team if you leave that you've had if you have if you feel you've had an issue with improper conduct uh at the ietf i think that's a hopefully that's a reasonable covering of the note well kyle anything else you'd like to surface in the i mean i would yeah i would just say that regarding the regarding the code of conduct and and harassment just treat your fellow participants with respect and don't be an and things will probably be fine so great our next slide yep so we have a pretty straightforward agenda this morning um we've already managed to get through all of the admin hooray um we do have some extra industry updates from glendeen and sanjay this morning a couple of updates on the working group docs and then some interesting other work going on within the ietf and then it seems a valuable time to take a take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "a look back over the last two years of the mops working group my goodness has it been two years already um and talk a little bit more about where we have been and where we might go from here so um unless anyone would like to bash that agenda um i think we're ready to go not seeing or hearing any bashes oh glenn yep no no ben glenn is up bash free wow that's awesome uh are the uh presentations loaded up into digital or into uh meet echo yes i did that at like 10 46. oh i love it just in time uh just entire presentations perfect uh the question is how do i do that again well no i'll uh so i have to stop sharing i think okay but uh yeah so europe so it's at the top it's the yeah okay here we go and then let's re-update share because sharing is caring all right it's been a long itf week i i apologize for having gone there um hey uh i'm glendeen and uh i'm here uh to talk about a presentation that sanjay misha who also along on the uh session and jason thibodeau from the stream video alliance have put together uh we've done a series of these and sanjay and i usually hand off back and forth on who's doing it and this uh itif was my turn so here i am and we're going to talk about what's been going on with the streaming video alliance also known as the sva since we last met and i'll uh feel free if you want to jump into the cube and take questions um you know what we'll clarify questions on particular slides along the way if not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "i'll you know we can talk at the end of this um so the sva has been uh pumping a lot of work recently uh you know it's been a very productive 2021 despite you know what we've all been facing and uh the way the sva is organized is very much like the ietf we're divided up into working groups that focus on particular areas we have focuses on uh you know security privacy augmented reality uh vr live streaming and caching things like that and so when i go through this deck a lot of this can be sort of topic focused uh and then on to the next topic and it's sort of organized by a working group so the first thing i want to highlight is we have released a a test bed now for the open caching api so those who are familiar with open caching from sva there's a linkage across pollination here going on with uh the open caching uh at itf there's our open caching sba and the cdni working group over at itf in fact sanjay uh you know is involved in both uh especially at the itf as one of the co-chairs uh and so you know we've been developing these uh these apis uh at the sva around open caching for several years now and we've now put together a test bed uh to allow people who are trying to adopt those apis to actually exercise against them and uh check to see if you know where they need uh compliance so that's a bit up and rolling uh we also have some configuration apis they were so awesome we had to split them into three documents uh so there they are uh this has actually been a considerable amount of work going through that group uh to create these configuration apis and it's really meant to be sort of um a companion uh to the rest of this work we're doing around uh caching and uh availability next up uh we had a live streaming plc and a couple of these slides are going to talk about plc's that were going on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "you know one of the things the sva does uh above and beyond working on sort of apis and specs and best practices is uh you know we're sort of i guess you could say where the industry meets the specifications uh because in the room we have a lot of people who do technical specifications and architectures and and product we also have a lot of people in the room who are actually deployed uh centric and uh content delivery centric so uh in the end you know we have this great opportunity to bring together the people doing the specifications with the people doing the deployments and allowing us to sort of you know let them do some proof of concepts and say well does this architecture we've all put together across the itf across cinti across other wars like scudy and at the sva does all that come together in a meaningful way and what can we learn from that to feed back into all the various organizations that are contributing and so we put these pocs together uh we've got a couple that will come up in the decks here but typically the live stream plc uh has been uh active uh they've got some um links here uh that uh that you can go off and follow and particularly they've been working on measuring live our latency in abr streaming and so that's a very much a great example of you know putting together this the specifications we're all been working on you know abr has you know been around for a few years but you know latency reducing that especially for live streaming uh for things like sports are huge right now in the delivery industry and so this plc brings together that uh exercise and says well are we at the right we're the right way are we going the right direction is there things missing that we need to take back into our development work into our specification work and expand on another plc we have is all about latency in streaming vr uh so you're gonna see a theme here a lot of these things it's latency latency latency and a big part of that is if you you know look at the the the content"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "industry there's been this shift in the last few years you know when we started mops even two years ago the big focus was very much on delivering of uh pre-word recorded content or you know stuff that was from files often in the industry we call the spot video on demand and you know that's what we've been doing when we watch a movie we're watching video on demand and we've got it pretty well done but one of the things that you can be very tolerant of in a vaude setting is latency you don't care if you know the movie is starting up one you know half a second later or a second later or two seconds later uh you you're very taller because it's a recorded film another if you're watching live sports you want to make sure that the the events you're seeing on the screen are as close to uh live as possible and this is sort of the new big challenge in front of the streaming world it's how do we reduce that latency so that experience is as close to live as possible and so that applies to live streamings applies to vr everything we're doing is trying to like bridge that uh that gap between you know what you end up with on your screen you know your goggles and what happens in the real world and so you're gonna see that sort of a repeating theme in this deck but also as we go forward with specifications and work that's a big focus area in the industry uh we also have a distributed request tracing uh this is a another way for us to tell how well the uh the system is working end to end as part of the qoe experience and of course you know you can make things very fast and very low latency but you can do it by shaving off quality and that's not good especially when we're talking about things like live sports equality and sports is something that viewers demand and so part of the qe experience work uh in this distributed tracing framework is actually start looking at how do we uh collaborate end-to-end and collect all that data so we can understand when it's working when it isn't working and why it isn't working and so if you're interested in that space and i think just real overlap with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "some of the itf uh stuff please go check out this link and you can see what that project is doing and then something that's probably pretty relevant to the itf uh quick for video streaming uh you know now that we have quick publishers with specification yay um you know there's been a lot of conversation at the itf around quick for streaming you know we have mock which is you know meeting and discussing uh you know the aspects there well the sva as well has been taking a look at quick and you know uh looking back at some of the notes when we did an update from the svh the itf uh a couple its ago one of the comments we made was you know we're looking at quick but we didn't have any clear plans to pick up and start deploying it at scale as a delivery infrastructure you know as an industry and one of the things we identified in asking the question why is that was that you know there's a little big shift going on here right obviously shifting to quick udp infrastructure away from the tcp based infrastructure that the delivery guys all know and have instrumented really well is a big challenge and it's retraining it's uh developing some new tools and new ways of looking at the problem space and it's also understanding how this all comes together with expectations of the all the expectations of the new and what tools and infrastructure we have to support it and so one of these the uh the sva has decided to do is to create a poc that is going to build both a reference architecture for testing the environment but try to uh tease out the details of how do you do that instrumentation and how do you do the metrics collection from end to end so that you can actually evaluate quick compared to your current delivery environments evaluate quick you know what it looks like compared to that but also how you can then start exercising some of the more advanced features of quick that aren't available in the old world and so ultimately the goal here is to build a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "reference uh evaluation platform that the uh the broader industry can take and make use of uh so they don't themselves have to sort through things so in practical terms what have we done so one of our first things we've been working on is looking through all the the myriad of quick server implementations that are out there and trying to you know create a set of criteria well why would you pick one over the other and what features are you looking for in a quick server implementation and how would you then do instrumentation that connects in with the tool sets you already have as part of your delivery environment likewise we're looking at the player's side how you connect with a player that supports quick and how you instrument properly and then how do all the pieces in the middle come together in a coherent way and the idea behind this plc is it will start publishing at each of its five phases outputs uh that the sva members and the broader industry can take a look at and make use of in their own evaluation quick so hopefully this helps bridge that gap between you know i want to play with it and i now have touched it played with i now understand it i can start figuring how it fits in american picture and also one of the big goals here is to be able to bring back to the itf real life experiences around this to say well here's what worked here is what didn't work here's some things we think we made directions we may want to suggest going in to improve things [Music] and it's bringing together here uh so if you need to get a hold of any of us uh i'm glenn dean i'm nbc universal and comcast here's my email uh we have sanjay uh at verizon and we have jt at the streamingvideolines.org uh and with that are there any questions all right uh uh kyle are you guys bingeing the key or do you want me to manage the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "oh we're uh we're managing the queue oh oh yes so go ahead jake all right uh okay good uh yeah thanks glenn um i wanted to ask about uh so it some of the documents in the sva look like they're available for free download i'm not sure about the distribution policies like obviously the ipr and copyright kind of constraints are quite different than in the itf and i was curious just sort of how much of this work do you anticipate bringing to the itf and kind of getting it into the more you know clear uh space and how much of it is uh like do we do we have to ask our lawyers before we should get involved and whatnot you know well you know the official answer as we both know is always you must ask the lawyers for everything because you know engineers aren't allowed to make decisions like that um but you know so the work of the sva really can be divided into a couple categories right one of them is sort of technical specifications those may contain uh ip related stuff and if you're an sva member part of joining the organization is of course agree the ip licensing rules which really focus on uh providing licenses to other uh sva members if they want to negotiate with you yeah and it's not the sv unlike the itf isn't uh essentially you know like as open a ip policy it's very flexible if you're a member if you're an outsider it's it's different right but that's for the specifications and the really technical stuff or the things like plc's uh best practices and white papers those are things which do not typically contain any ip related assertions or materials because they're they're looking at the industry level and they're looking at the technology level that's available across the open industry like so quick would be a good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "example right we're not building a quick server at the eye at the sva we're not putting sda member you know ip into that quick server we're taking stuff that's already out there that's available off the shelf typically open source and and taking it in and making use of it and documenting how we make use of it so that stuff is all available and will be available when published to the outside world you can just go to the sva website uh click on the download you know it does the same thing where it asks you to i think register your email address so we know who you are and then you download it and and right the documents you know copyrighted by the sva but of course you know you can go out and read and use it and stuff like that uh the copyright is to prevent you from republishing it yourself as your own work uh but not to consume it uh so you that's as you know and we're trying to make it as open as possible because the goal here is to really help bridge the world between the delivery operations environment that is sort of the sva and then the the development architecture like the itf um i kind of liken it sometimes unto uh like what analog does right now is full of people who actually take the technical specs for networks deploy them and make them work and the itf writes those technical specs and that will feed back to the itf where things work and where things don't work and ask for changes and i think that's a very similar relationship between the sva and the itf for video does that sort of cover it uh that's helpful thanks um i i guess i'll have to check with the lawyers but yeah thank you well and and the other thing i should add to is obviously we have like sanjay and myself were very active in the itf and so part of our you know role here i think is to act as that uh that bridge where it's appropriate and and to pull things out of one and bring them over to the other one and there's other people at the itf that's you know engage with the sva on a regular basis in various written groups and so i think there's a you know an ongoing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "relationship of back and forth here yeah i want to i want to thank clinton yeah say that there's a sort of a meta purpose of sharing that this work is going on because it's related to ietf work uh the the ins and outs of how how you know people here actually engage in work there and vice versa are a little a little trickier perhaps and i'll point out that you know we do the opposite to the two groups like the sva we take the updates that happen at the itf in places like mops and a bunch of us go back to the sva in their working groups and we talk there about what's going on in the itf to make sure that we've got cross-pollination going on actively and ongoing between the two organizations anyways that's my presentation did sanjay have anything you wanted to add in my co-author i think um you you've covered it pretty well so i don't really have anything more to add unless there are any questions and you can follow up with either one of us or both of us um afterwards uh you know we're obviously here on the ietf and uh we're around other places so don't be shy all right thank you great great thank you both thank you all right um so i think jake you are up next with the follow up from working group last call on the ops con stock yeah all right i think i can't click on the uh video while it's trying to wait oh what happened there's a modal that pops up okay i guess i have to beat that up that makes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "sense sorry i think it's my first time trying to use this particular tool usually i shared my screen all right it's kind of neat though uh but you you lose the opportunity to uh you know have embarrassing notifications show up uh to everyone in the in the working group well i can still do that like on my screen you can see my uh reflection off the car out the window there it's that time in the morning for me out here on the west coast all right uh so i was just going to give an update on our our adopted draft that uh tell everybody where we all are uh so our last call you know quote passed without uh without objections uh there was one comment in support of advancing it uh but this is not sort of the you know overwhelming support that we see in the room uh for uh some of the some of the questions we've we've asked from time to time so um we wanted to just kind of confirm it and make sure that there really is working group consensus to to move this forward uh and i was going to go over kind of the the status on our last few you know gasps of working on this we close you know we raised and closed uh over 40 issues you can see them in the github link there's a bunch of good stuff there we had to open issues remaining when we finished and uh i guess i'd characterize these as like more running out of steam and and uh uh having conflicts that necessarily uh we decided not to like we we had a couple of leanings on this in different directions and some questions as to like really should we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "uh put this in but um know so uh there there was a little comment on it that like maybe if there's something we can that the operators can do about it then we should include it but maybe not otherwise and so this was the this was the last thing where i think we just dropped the ball on kind of getting it in uh its final state was assigned to me so this one's my fault um you know there's there's some reasonable things that an operator can do if dns is is coming into play as a potential performance problem and um so it's not an unreasonable thing to include we do not have this listed as one of our blockers for going ahead with black with with last call i expect there are other things that can affect performance that we did not really cover in our in the dock in the end uh so you know this is uh perhaps a gap but i'm not sure it's such an important gap that we should update it and do another last call and the other one was kind of there was an interesting talk last time about the comparative latency under load from uh from comcast um and we had a little bit of discussion i think spencer had the idea that uh that there were a few worthwhile sentences to to suggest on this topic and uh um you know i was a little bit uh i'm not sure it really fits but uh you know lawfully and regardless the sentences never quite got submitted i guess i'd put this as another one that's maybe nice to have but not necessary um but that's really all we had and i guess my big question is like are we really ready to move forward can we i don't know we're on a poll does anybody have concerns about this that didn't make it to the list uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "really what i wanted is a discussion maybe a confirmation something like this section on mock yes thanks ali uh that'll have to be its own working group i'm afraid in my opinion but please feel free to disagree flourish floors open i'm inviting cues eric yeah no specific no specific comment on on the draft per se but more on the group last call there was only one review by glenn on the mailing list that's a little bit short right so i don't want to be the document shepherd to say and declare group consensus when there was only one review so i really urge other participants in this working group that are here or not listening basically to review the document and saying like glenn it's okay i support like it is that's enough right so you don't need to put a ten thousand issue uh the sort of the better some specifically for you jake right yeah yeah so i'm slightly concerned if only one review done by glenn uh it may cause problem when you go later in the process right actually yeah i have to review it so part of the purpose part of the reasoning putting this on the agenda for today was was to flesh out if if there were issues that were going to come up in itf wide last call let's let's hear what they are now rather than being surprised but i certainly take the point that a document shepard's gonna be unimpressed by a single um so i see two people in the queue i think that probably where we want to close out today's um activity is to take names uh who's willing who's willing to review um or and or just send a note to the list saying that you know you read it and support it's going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "forward but i guess sanjay is next yes i'm i'm next and um i just wanted to i think eric's point well and i definitely owe a review and i will be reviewing the document so i'm on the record great thank you sanjay um so uh i can't uh volunteered review pieces since apparently i already did a review uh but uh i will take this over to the working groups over the sva and make them aware of the document as well so they get some eyeballs from that organization on it and i'll spread it around some social contacts i have in the industry because i think this is some important stuff um to eric i want to point out that you know because we're now using github uh for the the editor process uh for this i will point out that tremendous amount of conversation actually took place on that github and i'm wondering if somehow we it would be appropriate to make a shepherd aware of the github conversations that went into the process because historically it would have been on the list but now it's sort of on this other place so i don't know how to solve that but suggestions would be welcome there is indeed a dichotomy somehow between the github and the mailing list but until now it's still a mailing list that counts and if you open for instance couple of issues in the github no things block you to send in the working group last call nothing prevents you to say on the meaningless i have open three four five a github issue and that counts right musically yeah thanks sir yeah i guess as as an author i i'd also like to point out that contributing to the document by uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "you know commenting and opening issues does not imply support for getting the document to the you know for advancing the document uh through last call um this is these are two separate things and while we are are very grateful we we need a i would say we need a separate uh confirmation of that well what regardless of the venue uh but yeah the mailing list as eric said is the is the normative one there uh okay uh renin uh i would be happy to uh review the document as well uh i just want to say the document looks really good there are good comparing and contrasting of various options and section 7 is comprehensive but i'll i'll definitely review it over the mailing list as well and thanks to the authors for putting up putting together this document great thanks i guess i have i have one question also that occurred to me like in in some other working groups i've seen like a request to send like we're not aware of any ipr for all the authors and maybe we support advancing this document also i i didn't do that i kind of forgot that should i i guess i don't know what our process is here exactly yeah well i mean welcome you're you're our first document for this working group so um i think we're kind of figuring out what our process is as well as you know as we'll get into a little later dealing with the fact that we're not actually meeting in person and um kind of struggling to the dichotomy is not i don't think the dichotomy is between github and the mailing list i think the dichotomy is between people who come to the meetings and people who participate on the mailing list um so uh i think it would be fine and helpful for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "the for the the authors to do that i think that i mean i as i said i think we need to take some names and and already got one um i'm i'm yeah i'm appreciative of glenn's offer to take this to a wider audience at the same time as you know we are in last call right this is not a what document would you write if you were writing a document request this is a is this document in reasonable shape to meet its objectives yes no what can we do to fix it um kind of call ali so to jake's question uh uh at least uh when i was a working group chair i you know as the chair i asked the group whether there was any ipr considerations from anybody not just authors obviously anybody from the working group and but beyond that since this is an informational document i'm not sure whether the ipr declarations do apply to this one maybe they still do i don't know but uh since yeah i think the ipr as in the note well ipr always applies but what i got out of jake's comment was the and i support the document you know explicitly sending the note to the mailing list to say that the support for it well i don't think we will have any concerns jake anyway i just wanted to point to that thank you all right uh that is it then um i guess if nobody else has comments i don't know if you guys uh want to run a poll in the room or we'll just do the list but um yeah and and i guess um kyle what do you think i would be happy to to get more names from people here who are willing to go through the document and you know send a thumbs up or questions to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "mailing list i don't know if you want to do that as a poll if we want to ask people to volunteer in in the in the chat or um if we just want to take the mailing the attendance list and send mail to everybody i'm not above mail spam i mean yeah i i think volunteering in the chat seems fine i'm not sure if the polls are are anonymous or not and if they're anonymous they wouldn't that isn't going to help too much i can't i don't think i've run a poll uh through medico so okay i think we did last time but i could be wrong about that um all right i don't remember what you know what i ate for breakfast this morning so i just remember the very clicky keyboard in the last meeting um the okay so how about this let's see if we can find all right you've got one i was aiming for three let's go for five people in the in the chat who are willing to um review the document and send a thumbs up or a question to the mailing list for last working last call within the next two weeks go okay great we have we've got two come on we can get somebody else here everyone else is wandered away from the keyboard and is consuming suitable beverages for whatever time zone they're in all right did you mean five in addition or because we got five it looks like yeah i think i think we are i think we are good to go thanks and i appreciate everyone's volunteering great you jake and co-authors and thank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "you everyone who has volunteered all right uh so now on to um the media operations use case for an augmented reality application on edge computing infrastructure well leslie i have a question uh before we move on so uh as you will remember we decided to have a live document at the end of the rfc eventually and we haven't really received anything from the rfc editor at this point but uh if maybe maybe it needs to be taken care of during the last call as well maybe ad or someone else needs to make that clear uh at this point we have a tiny url link that you know links to the google document uh but eventually we want to have a base in the you know somewhere in the atf domain so if anybody has any idea how to do it or maybe whether we should take an action at this point to to do that uh it might be good to check as well yeah that's that's that's a good question thanks for bringing that back up um i suspect it's something that we'll have to deal with either in working group last call or ietf wide last call um and see if it's get us to a point where everyone is comfortable that we have a usable answer but um i don't i don't think we're quite there today cool all right over to you uh raymond can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:06",
    "text": "okay so my name is krishna and i will be presenting an update to our draft this is a joint work with akbar rahman [Music] so updates to the draft are in section 3.1 we have also added a new section 5 to the draft we will talk about these changes in the next few slides the updates are in the form of reorganizing section 3.1 around the notion of ar data processing pipeline we have also added section 5 where we summarize the network characteristics of ar application traffic as well as tcp's interaction with 4g lte network carrying ar traffic so let us look at those updates in section 3.1 we gave a brief sketch of an ar data processing pipeline that consists of three consecutive subtasks namely tracking followed by an acquisition of a model of the real world and finally registration firstly we need to track the three-dimensional coordinates and six-dimensional pose that includes coordinates and orientation of objects in the real world these track natural features are then used to develop an annotated point cloud-based model finally the coordinate systems brightness and color of virtual and real objects need to be aligned in a process called registration in addition to the requirements for abr algorithms there are other operational issues that need to be considered for ar use cases such as the one described in this draft in a study conducted to characterize"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "multi-user ar or cellular networks the following issues were identified and have been added in section 5. firstly the uploading of data from an ar device to a remote server for processing dominates the end-to-end latency secondly a lack of visual features in the grid environment can cause increased latencies as the ar device uploads additional visual data for processing to the remote server finally ar applications tend to have large bursts that are separated by significant time gaps as a result the tcp congestion window enters slow start before the large bursts of data arrive increasing the perceived user latency the study quoted in the draft shows that segmentation latency at the rlc layer impacts tcp's performance during slow start we would like to thank spencer dawkins rohit abhishek and jake holland for providing very helpful feedback on the mailing list we would give our detailed response to the feedback on the mailing list we would like to take this opportunity to invite reviewers and contributors to improve the draft the draft is now on good help many thanks to kyle rose for helping out as a starting point for our discussion as spencer has suggested in the mailing list for future versions of the draft we could abstract out from just discussing the particulars of ar applications using resources on the edge to the general idea of deploying edge resources for arvr and 360 degree streaming type applications so this is essentially up to the working group to agree whether that is the correct scope of the draft additionally from our perspective the intended audience for this draft is network operators so with the chair's permission we'd like to open the floor for a discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:10",
    "text": "chris yeah so um i read the draft um uh it looks it it's an excellent start um i think um i agree with a lot of the feedback that's already been given on the list and i apologize for not getting my feedback on the list before the meeting i said that i wouldn't i didn't but i will get you some feedback um one of the things i did observe is that the um there's a lot of discussion about generation and processing on the device itself and with the intended audience is you know network operators um to me it was in concretely it was not concretely tied enough to what's happening on the network and where those latencies are coming from and time budget being spent in one place versus another um uh uh it wasn't clear to me how those things were related um and as a network uh uh person trying to read this um uh that was confusing to me yeah thanks chris for the comments uh definitely we can uh add more text to the draft clarifying uh in more precise terms what are the various steps which take the uh which make up the whole uh time budget uh i'd also like to add here that uh the description of the various ar processes are just a brief sketch they are not meant to be comprehensive if someone is interested in a comprehensive discussion they can look at the references"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "so the the discussion of er is is deliberately kept very brief but yeah we are open to more suggestions there any other immediate questions for renin so um i appreciate that you will go through the detailed responses on the mailing list which is absolutely appropriate because there were some some good in-depth uh reviews um but i did think it would be worth it if the working group would actually um yeah if the working group would here discuss a little bit more about one of the points that jake raised which is you know whether whether this document as it stands is straddling at least two worlds and best pick which one um i don't know reena if you want to address that at all now or if we should open the floor to other comments and ask jake to reiterate that point no absolutely i think uh i'll give my uh comments on that and i'll definitely want to hear what the working group uh wants to say uh so i think both spencer and jake have raised this issue of uh the scope and uh the intended audience of the document um so what we want to do with the document is to uh make it uh sort of as as i said uh abstract out of the particulars of ar applications and and discuss what are the implications of not only air but vr and 360 degree streaming applications on the utility of edge computing resources so as uh spencer put it i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "think uh he said that reasons to deploy edge computing uh with the reasons not being about specific applications so i think that would be a from my perspective that would be a really nice direction to go to but i want to hear what the working group thinks as would we does anybody want to wade in i think uh yeah go ahead kyle share your thoughts well yeah so speaking as a participant rather than rather than as a as a chair i just say that it feels like the the problems that the ar draft is trying to address are not specific to to augmented reality they're much more general and it seems to be that it seems it seems to me that there's a there's a large class of interactive applications that need really low latency which implies things about where compute is located how quickly objects can be fetched how you know and what constraints like physics has on how close those things need to be to you in order to achieve a desired level of latency um [Music] that i i sort of i guess one of my fears is that the is that by using by by having the you know the the term ar in the title and having it be focused directly on that use case that a lot of people would be like augmented reality i'm not doing that even though the concerns would be would be shared by a much larger group of people anyway i just wanted to throw that out there that's something that i've been sitting on for a while yeah and i i think uh i would agree with that as the draft progress we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "realized that its scope should broaden or or more precisely you should abstract out of particular er applications into more general issues uh which resources on the edge can can help mitigate um jake right so that that was uh one of the options so that's good that we're hearing uh plus ones to that side of it um i guess i would say that there are some so uh like uh like renown was saying i think there's uh there are some tighter constraints for that come from the head motion kind of constraints then basically anything i've heard of yet including gaming like for that one you're looking at maybe i think last i saw a 45 millisecond total budget but this one's more like 15 at the outside if i remember right so um that's a significant difference that's that's a scope constraint potentially but i just do you ha you know you said there are many applications that need it did you have others in mind here kyle uh so besides ar we are 360 degrees streaming there is also a certain uh vehicular use cases that would require edge computing resources certain iot use cases as well and the one common thread across all of those applications is the requirement for low latency and also the fact that the devices are typically uh battery driven and so that limits the amount of resources that is available and that also causes this heat problem that also causes the battery drainage problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "so uh so across all of those kinds of use cases you have these similar requirements and they can be mitigated by uh various engineering solutions involving edge resources so that so that's interesting um yeah i mean i guess i guess it almost seems like there are like there are two levels of docs that are that are wanted here because there are there's a unique combination of problems uh that augmented reality and and virtual reality um uh share uh but the individual problems are then then overlap with other areas so it's almost like you want the augmented reality problem statement and then have that refer to you know up to two other to documents and other areas that are addressing subsets of that problem does that make sense uh yeah what i would say is that um the at the operational level as spencer says in his mail uh there are a lot of things like the choice of the transport protocol that are not necessarily uh decided by the network operators but by the by the application developers and that that that then means that at the network operator level uh there are these uh these paired uh sort of uh traffic patterns uh that they need to deal with to provide certain say uh qoe so qci comes to mind which are provided by uh 4g and 5g vendors so uh so yes there is a set of um let's say requirements uh posed by the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "by the ar application which are also then the requirements for other kinds of applications like uh certain iot applications or autonomous cycles etc etc so i think the fact that um that you can use uh engineering solutions load balancing deciding where to offload when to offload those sorts of things uh in combination with with the edge devices is is sort of a common thread across all these applications i think thank you karen my apologies i haven't fully read the document but i had a curiosity question you talked about uh dynamically changing qoe is there any quantitative way to decide what is quality of experience are there any metrics you have in mind for those um so i have given a reference to that and uh and typically the metrics that the application designers come up with have to be tied to actual network uh things like latency and bandwidth uh so so yes there are certain uh metrics that you can you can use but they need to be translated into you know the standard network performance metrics like latency and memory okay yeah i'll review the document and provide you more comments on it thank you very much that's great thank you um i've been putting myself in queue and coming out of queue and in queueing out of cube um because the the around the question of um you know is do we need to capture sort of the use case of ar and and and tape it up as the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "target it strikes me that we might want to articulate that in terms that are around what what is it what is special about it that requires edge computing you've listed a lot of the video related ones and which is appropriate for mob's document um but it strikes me too that it might be worth capturing some of the other compute challenges that are make it not possible to address these issues by traditional you know video challenge technologies such as cdns and in particular i'm thinking about whether it's ar or vr or the metaverse the whole notion of synchronization of objects um or we or shared reality if you will um and how that impacts you know the fact that you you really do need to do local you know you need to break the problem down based on where you what you're competing locally versus what you are yeah achieving through communication um so i don't know if that's useful as a means of sort of saying you know of describing what are the kinds of problems you think we're talking about here and why is edge computing important or if it's a complete red herring um but that's where my thinking was running too uh well for definitely for ar and vr applications uh the the latency is important and one of the reasons why that's important is because of synchronization issues that we have discussing in the draft also so uh so definitely whether you talk of your vr or multiverse uh you would need to uh you need to think about a synchronization and a way to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "deal with with the latency issues uh also because most of these devices are on on wireless networks uh that that are very variable in their quality so so uh so yeah definitely synchronization and i think part of my point was it is the nature of the problem space that um there are certain things that you can split across nodes and there are certain things you cannot right so i mean it's the age-old problem of multi-parallel processor computing and shared memory and or messaging right when you're solving a problem what are the things that actually need to happen locally and what are the things that can be solved by synchronized communication elsewhere um and there are some things that just cannot be pushed off um again i didn't want a rat hole there but just in terms of there's a if we want to talk about the problem space in a means that is somewhat agnostic of a particular application focusing it on you know the level of breaking that breaking the problem the compute problem apart and what needs to be done locally versus not locally and therefore what video processing has to happen locally versus not locally and one of the implications might be helpful or as i said it might be a complete red herring uh no i think it's a it's a very valid point and if i just off the top of my head if i recall the uh uh satyanarayan and paper that we have referenced in the draft they talk about uh three tires so you have the the the actual device you have the edge and you have the cloud and the device actually represents the design considerations of mobility and sensing whereas the edge deals with the design consideration of network proximity and the cloud deals with the design"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "consideration of i think compute elasticity storage permanence and hardware consolidation and within these design constraints you i guess you need to consider synchronization and how it is affected by the special nature of arvr applications okay um so i think i don't see anyone else in queue uh so i think that the next steps are renin you're planning a more detailed response to the comments received on the mailing list on the mailing list um i will take this opportunity to observe that the document is now in github and thanks to you and kyle for getting that sorted so people who prefer to do github-based engagement can now do so and we've picked up at least one more person offering to do review it was karen who had offered to do a review of the document and please share comments with mailing list is there anything else that we should cover here today on this topic okay all right thank you very much reena and um we'll head to the mailing list kyle you were gonna say something no no i was just gonna i was just gonna say our our our next speaker is spencer who may need to extricate himself from his other meeting thank you everyone thanks thank you thanks renen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "spencer sorry for the delay we'll we'll we'll be with everyone in a moment we're just trying to get spencer's attention if not we can move on to the to the next item okay so i think that we probably should do that um we'll tell in the chat we will tell spencer that we've reordered the agenda um and if you can't join us then i think we can probably speak from his notes to the mailing list um i think there were some good discussion points there yeah okay all right uh lee if you could give us your update on the packet differences yes thank you should i if if you want to share uh slides you can click on the share preloaded slides button at the top left and then select your your deck presentation review which one okay got it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:06",
    "text": "yes so can you see my screen uh yeah we're looking at your screen as opposed to the slides that were uh that were in the uh uh that we uploaded from the data tracker but it's fine you might want to put it into presentation mode though so we don't see all of the okay right now yep that looks good okay yeah great um so um i wanna have a summary of the feedback that i received from the last meeting so the comments were i think in summary i think the comments are mainly related to how to review the characteristics of the microblocks containing the packets to the network and implement the selective packet dropping at the packet level so i want to emphasize on the packet level so i'm very glad that the concept is very um well received in my mind and we think it is beneficial to improve the quality of experience of video streaming by reducing the package dropping granularity from the current traffic class level to the individual packet level which means inside a flow each individual packet may have its own significance level and the router could treat those individual packets differently or even within the within the packet itself um yes and we need such information of whether this packet is significant or not to be reviewed network nodes for example api could be implemented to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "input such information or metadata from the application which might be mapped to the you know ipv6 extension header or ipv4 options or a dedicated metadata field in the ip header um you know and i want to thank um drake about the you know the for the reply in the email list um we will take a closer look at your your comments because we haven't gotten much time in the morning to read carefully about each sentence in the email um and we will reply you later offline um but um for the for the div serve i want to say is the traffic management is at the class level which means the ad router will look into some uh fields like source destination addresses and flow id to map traffic to map list packet to certain traffic class which means that inside of flow the packets would have the same significance if this server is used but yes i will carry the discussion offline in an email list next i want to talk a bit more on the major characteristics of video frames that could affect the significance of a single packet the first one is the frame type we all know pack 4 has you know have three types of frames iframe is self-contained so which means it will have no references to other frames and it is encoded by itself and it is the keyframe that provides checkpoints for re-synchronized synchronization or re-entry to support trig modes and aerial recovery um we we can think this is most"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "important type of frames uh in a whole stream and p frame is the predictive frame which means it can allow macroblocks to be compressed using temporal prediction in addition to spatial prediction so for a motion estimation keyframes could use frames that have been previously encoded it could be a proof p frame it could be iframe so for a b frame it stands for bi-directional uh frames which means i will refer to the frames that occur both before and after it so each macro block of a b frame can be predicted using backward prediction or using forward prediction so accordingly um the next characteristic i want to point out is the whether the packet contains frame that are referenced by other frames so according to this prediction relationship among different frames so each frame might be referenced by other frames um so for iframe the iframe does not refer to any other frame so is is at least but it is at least referenced by a keyframe after it so the losing the first iframe in the group of pictures would cause videos picture even missing a few seconds um because p and b frames referencing to i from it would not be decoded nor displayed either for a p frame it because it refers to a picture in the past um however you also might be referenced by a p frame after it or a b frame before or after it and for a b frame can i it can also act as a reference in the real case it's not a common case so if b frame is referenced by others it is termed as a reference b frame"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "but in the normal case or you know common case the b frame is not used as a reference so it is usually called as non-reference b frame another important characteristic of impact video packets is the movement level of the video sample contained in the packet the video things with the low level movement or less sensitive to both b frame and p frame packet loss for example if right now we are having a conference call my background or um my body if i did not move much it has very low level movement contained in the video so the the video things with you know were not very sensitive to the b frame or p frame packet loss but on the other hand if you're watching football uh video on live video um it is um you know the movement level is very high and you will be very sensitive or more sensitive to both b frame and p frame packet loss so for loss the p frame can impact the remaining part of the gop um or while a lost b frame has only local effects you know slowly moving content or very large stack background like you know my video right now if i'm sharing so you know think of dynamically moving content loose b frame has more true magic impact and scale can be as far reaching as a p frame loss so if we can have some level of estimation or indication of the movement level with of the video sample containing packets we can you know combine with other knowledge of the packet we can have more uh information regarding the significance of the packet um the last one i want to point out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "contained in the packet belongs to a region of interest or not um the microblocks that are identified to represent objects in roi are more important than other microblocks of non-roi regions for example we are watching a video um you are more you are paying more attention to certain object or certain person in the video than other microblocks that are representing other objects or background is not are not so important compared uh compared to the macroblocks of the roi um so based on those characteristics of the mempac video packets you we probably could use some um some way of calculating the import importance of those of those of the individual packets um i did not show here in the in the slides but what i can think of is you know based on the frame type we think that iframe is the most important so we probably give more uh weight to the eye frame frame and for those frames that are referenced by others are would be given more um weight and for the movement based on the movement level you know if the movement level is high then the b frame and p frame would would have more importance or more weight than uh b frame and p frame with less movement and then you know if would think the the pack leaf has roi uh object then maybe we have higher weights so we can combine all those factors uh into um a certain calculation method i i personally i don't have a good answer but we can think of one light by putting different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "weights on those important things then maybe we can come up of a significant level force or individual packets so uh here is the summary of the requirements of network and applications uh so we think the application needs to in order to make this work we need it needs to reveal some information to network to enable is selective packet dropping you know examples could be you know receiving any users rough preference on the media quality so what is your tolerance quality degradation regarding to the example uh resolution so if you are watching uh um before you know 4k video uh is it is it okay for you to watch uh um you know 480 uh p video or not if it is okay maybe uh some of the packets does not need do not need to be dropped um but those you know like the iframes should be maintained other frames could be dropped and other things like the characteristic of the media content i presented earlier and also um you know like are for example the ior the frame type um whether the pack contains frames that are referenced by others and correspondingly the network should be able to leverage above information reviewed by the application and then selectively drop packets or potentially parts of the packets from com from competing media stream flows um and re-transmission we can think in that way re-transmission could be maximally eliminated because some of the packets that are important have already received by the receiver and the receiver can accept this qualitative degree qualitative degradation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "then other parts of the packets do not to be retransmitted again so the receiving end user is able to consume in the uh deliver packets as many as possible in time with acceptable quality and this is the slide i added just now those are the references to papers we have published and the very first one which we will publish in 2018 and the recent one that were very relevant to this paper oh sorry to this uh contribution is this one the um the coded communication for emerging network applications with new iep which is to be appeared as a invited paper in proceedings of the um 17th international offers on mobility sensing and networking okay that's all for my presentation i would like to see any comments jake um the uh i guess i'd like to to clarify um i think you characterize the responses as positive so far i'm not sure i would call my view on this positive at this stage uh i think there might be potential here but what i'd be interested to see is um it so first off i think the the problem of differential dropping that you communicate to the network is exactly what diffserv can do and that's a that's a good approach that's a much better approach in my opinion than um uh option header ideas that you mentioned um but i think there are challenges uh and that you you'd have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "be looking at a controlled uh at a controlled network either way so i guess what i'm interested in is basically really what do you gain out of this i think this is a thing that you can do in experiment already i'd like to see quantitative results discussing it in terms of uh user q08 qoe before i'd like to see this um really given a lot more time but uh that's just kind of my view i think it's it's a potentially interesting thing but like the the fact that iframes are different uh does not necessarily imply that dropping them less often gives you a better qoe without the sort of measurement to that effect and i guess i'd like to uh you know there's probably constraints on that i guess i'd like to see an exploration of what do you actually get that's that's my main feedback here but thank you yeah um no i i did not regard regard your email as a very positive uh feedback but i do thank you for you know uh replying me through the email list giving me comments um for deep serve i want to point out it is a course-grained class-based mechanism for traffic management which means at the edge of diffserv domain the edge router would look into the source destination addresses and the flow id to determine the you know the dscp value for that packet so it does not mean the packet within the flow would have different significance levels or dsap assignment because the router would only look at the source and destination and the flow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "id we will not look at anything else to determine this vp value so within i agree if you use the router to set the value however i think you can set the value at the host and have it uh come in with the disk serv id which then would be treated differently by the router so i guess i'd encourage you to look at that instead where the sender sets it according to the sock up there's the iptos api in in linux for example and if you can set that at the host then i think you'll be able to perform experiments that do not depend on router understanding the class and just use the class just based on the incoming diffserv at the router layer when you try to when you try to go between different diffserv domains but just to just declare clarify that point um but good luck uh that it sounds interesting if it uh if it really pans out so uh you know yeah i would take a look take a look at what you mentioned yes okay thanks jake uh magnus uh yes so i i definitely have to support one of these comments here really about do you have any video quality of experience results for this type of work because i mean i think you presented a very simplified view of how the latest video codecs achieve their high performance and and you're down to ipm reference structures etc on macrobot level and then that's i mean that's all mixed up so for getting this to work properly to my understanding you need to ensure that you can actually separate out the data you want to drop for both that it works through both your security solutions and your framing solutions and formatting yet still get readable by stream so i mean uh i i hope you have some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "qe results that you really can show that because before you can show it that even get that with the framing in place for those applications i don't see a point of doing this because i think that's usually being when looking at this this kind of barrier so it's it's not worth it yeah yeah thank you for your comment yeah yes so um be honest i i my background is not uh um video coding sites i'm more you know networking side or mostly networking side so for uh here we want to point out the you know there there is um could be significance differences among package by using this use case we did some research on what are the characteristics could be could be leveraged but i think those characteristics could be you know does do not need to be revealed to the network uh you want one hand because you know if we could have the help from the codex or application by saying okay list packet because it has those uh kinds of characteristics so i would um indicate it is more important than the other packets in the stream so we will have the application or codecs to do that instead of you know network try to tries to understand those characteristics yeah sure but i mean the the the issue here is that you have a very interactive system is that if you drop a certain amount of packets your video quality will be subjected to different it will really get different results and that depends on how your system so you actually need to have it do both parts here to figure out and see what results you actually can get and that i think is is the kind of homework you need to go do here and you also say no there's some properties"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "here yes you can code those properties if you can determine which packets etc and you can actually cut out the data but i think you need to start from the application and then come to what you need from the network i think you're kind of starting from network here and going backwards so uh yeah yeah yeah uh i understand uh yes um i think your comments are very legitimate um so um yeah the application yeah we definitely need to support front application side because in order to have this information or the significance of the packet known to the to the you know network list information needs to be calculated or some kind of a revealing uh front application to the network and as you said dropping some parts some packets may result in the quality of quality degradation but if the any user is able to tolerate that then maybe it is okay right so um as i said if you know i'm watching 4k at certain point i'm only watching 480p i'm okay with that then the retransmission of those other frames may not need it but um i think what you commented earlier uh very legitimate that the application does need needs to support less kind of operation in the network and okay all right all right yeah i closed the queue because we're we're pretty much out of time but uh but i want to thank you for doing your presentation thank you guys thank you very much jake and others for comments follow up from the specific discussion points as this as outlined i think the thought people probably want to be putting [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "putting on the table is um if if this is going to go forward at the itf what is the appropriate place for it to go uh i don't think the mops working group would be the right place but um perhaps we can help shape it up to the point where it is something that can go to another working group that would be helpful definitely great all right thank you um all right so spencer is still busy elsewhere um i don't think we are going to skip right over the mock item um i think that we need to at least speak a little bit about the notes that spencer sent to the mailing list um so the media over quick side meeting occurred earlier this week i was not there um i'm probably not the best person to to present the report out from it um i don't know if you want to give it a go kyle or um if we want to see how much i can make up on the fly um probably not the i'm probably not the right person to do that um was anyone else there who has uh who feels confident enough about the uh about their uh their understanding of the outcome uh you could give a brief summary i guess not all right um so um spencer as i said forwarded the mailing list to point her to his notes from the meeting luke is in the uh is in the queue now okay luke would you like to take the baton"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "um so yeah i was uh i joined like 15 minutes late to the the media of a quick mailing list but also being kind of responding a bit and you know even even try to get it formed um really it comes down to there's a lot of different media use cases right there's a lot of different protocols out there you guys you guys know that there's um uh this whole swap and there's this new uh transport layer um uh quick and really this is just an exploration of uh what we could use quick for um there are some companies and some individuals that are using it already to um to deliver media but most of the meeting was about what use cases exist people speaking up saying like oh we need seeking support or oh we need you know i want peer-to-peer or all this is for real time this is for gaming and try to trying to explore what existing standards exist uh at ietf and and whatnot uh and also what would be a good use case for for quick and what changes would be required for quick but the meeting didn't really cover that too much so right now it's still in an exploratory phase it's still trying to figure out what working group or groups um uh could be created to deal with this um if they're even necessary uh and uh yeah it's it's it's it's it's a really rough state right now just trying to come up with requirements and kind of come up with what desired target use cases there are okay thank you for that and thank you for leaping in the last moment um my understanding from spencer's notes is that a large part of the conclusion is that it's important to sort of stake out you know what use cases people want to pursue or at least be clear about what use cases are in play um i don't know if glenn you want to speak to your follow-up on that point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "assuming glenn is still here ben is still here yeah either yeah so um and i can't remember which lists my comments ended up on you last night but i made the observation that you know this is a pretty big ocean and there's lots of different applications that something we we you know chewed through when we created mops in the first place right just because there's so much there's some stuff that's really well developed with some stuff that's sort of in the midpoint development use case wise and some stuff that's sort of like well hey this is really cool now that we have this we can do these new things let's explore and it seemed like you know and i by the way i should say i'm very supportive of the mock stuff so i'm i'm coming from a friendly voice here i think there's some cases um in particular i i suggested things like um ingest uh median just because we already have existing reliable protocols like srt that have said that they're playing with um you know going over quick uh and there's other you know applications and we've seen postings from parties that are using quick experimentally for ingest but the use cases for ingest are fairly well developed so i suggested hey for the very well-developed stuff maybe that's what mock could build a charter around and expand upon and focus on um and then for other things maybe it's time to come back into other groups like like mops mock mobs we name these things badly um but come back into mops for discussion because i think what mops is very good at is allowing things to sort of evolve to a more mature state and then find the appropriate home to go to um and that was sort of my take on on the two things and again very supportive of of the mock stuff so what exists today i can help illuminate so first off uh my cat's on the mouse hopefully it doesn't meet me um uh i'm actually i work at twitch and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "we're pushing uh releasing a quick based video delivery protocol um using web transport uh i know facebook is using quick for ingest already with their player um and uh in this case we've got two kind of production ready implementations and then people have been experimenting with um rtp over quick and also srt as you mentioned srt is trying to proxy over quick as well so there's a few different areas there's a few different implementations out there it's really too early to tell what works well um and what maps will as well too quick um because sometimes it's it's like you mentioned the space is pretty well developed and you need to have a compelling reason to use it like not just using the technology because it exists i see jonathan's entered the queue jonathan you actually wanted to ask uh uh to luke because he's mentioned his implementations what he's found you know what he's found so far like you know what what is quick giving him that you know existing like say tcp or udp based things wouldn't do for him um in particular is he taking advantage of some of the more complicated reliability and ordering because i think that's sort of where the interesting things happen for media reading more and more over time on the the mock mailing list um i already i did post one thread about uh the problems that we've seen we're an hls based um stack and uh with some modifications um but it really comes down to um headline blocking like you're forced to download a single segment you're downloading it sequentially and when there's congestion what do you do um quick gives you the option to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "things in parallel so kind of uh coordinate them together uh to cancel them better and stuff like that um and that's really what we're utilizing and we're also in a position that we have our own cdn so it's very easy to just push data over web transport but you could totally do this with hdb3 as well it's just harder so i think um i think that we have achieved the ambition of raising awareness and doing some cross-pollination uh between the mock effort and mops i think there are some suggestions on the table that mops might be able to help um base some of the discussions going forward in terms of taking some use cases but i think that we'll have to see if that transpires on the mailing list um and apart from that i guess we would like to see how the mock work continues going forward i think that's about as much we can draw from this absent a strong proponent in the room okay all right um so also keep your eyes peeled from for mock yeah keep your eyes peeled for mock meetings and upcoming ietf meetings join the mailing list get engaged all right kyle go for it all right so can everybody see the slides i'll assume that's yes so uh this is the the mops two-year retrospective can you believe it's been slightly over two years since the working group was formed um you can almost smell the benzene of the retrospecticus that's a simpson's reference if nobody gets it anyway so i'm i'm afraid that the that the first part of this deck is going to be a bit of a downer but you know it gets better i promise so uh so here's how it started um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "basically two years ago well up until two years ago there were some side meetings the the ggie meetings and then the video interest group side meetings that went on for for several years um in montreal in 2019 uh is when we had the mops buff where we got you know we essentially had a discussion about about whether it was uh reasonable to make a working group and what the scope of the charter would be and what not and so finally in november it was formed just before the singapore ietf um and so we had our first in-person session at uh in singapore uh and then in march the uh the vancouver meeting was cancelled and so here's how it's going now um note the the the highlighted virtuals there which is kind of uh it's so i think it's been it's been kind of a downer for a lot of working groups but i think it's especially been a it it's been a special challenge for for mops because of the nature of a lot of the work that we do right so um i just took a screenshot of the milestones quickly there's a you know like we we've this is this was a snapshot that i took earlier this week and i know that we've bumped some of these dates up or back i guess um several times as we have kind of missed milestones we have you know obviously we have a few done but we still have a lot of work that we intended to do at the beginning that is not done yet um these are the two documents we've adopted it seems you know it seems a little meager but you know on the other hand that you know publishing documents was not the main purpose of mobs to begin with it never was um what is our main purpose well if you look at um damn the uh this is in the wrong place in the slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "all right anyway there's some we i'll come back to the slide so if you look at our charter right i've highlighted kind of the the verbs the actions that that mops was chartered to take on uh solicit regular updates solicit input uh solicit discussion and documentation there are a number of things here and many of them are rendezvous functions right they are functions of getting people in the same room together to discuss common sets of problems and come up with either you know classes of solutions or direct you know figure out where there are gaps in existing standards and direct work to to other working groups within the itf and uh and outside sdos and so without those without those hallway conversations without the you know like the you know having a bunch of people in the hackathon room like working on the same thing or doing demos um without a lot of tourists coming to mops because you know because they just they're they happen to have a free slot and they're like all right let me go you know go into this room it looks interesting um without the you know a lot of the cross-pollination of having everyone in the same physical space talking about problems and seeing where there are where there's overlap and where there are you know potential synergies between work and seeing the the reduction in new work overall i mean that's been a real drag from virtual meetings and i think it's it's impacted mops more than a lot of other working groups which had which had explicit um work items in progress and moving but it probably has also impacted working groups that uh that have been trying to find new work as well i'm sure it differs from group to group but it's just this is just has been my observation based on talking to other people so um that having been said we've uh we've solicited a bunch of presentations"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "we've had a bunch of interesting talks will law talked a few meetings ago um new participants have come to us they've actually sought out mops talked to us and we've hooked them up with people in in the working group and have them come in and give give presentations and moreover there have been a lot of intangibles that mobs have provided right we're responsible for a bunch of conversations happening even though they're not having it happening in a physical hallway they're happening on the internet in virtual hallways um and so like i think that a lot of that things like things like uh like mock things like uh the the renaissance multicast uh work on reducing latency are all things that mops has assisted in in helping get more attention uh paid to these things um and uh assisted in bootstrapping some of this work and so i think that's that's you know that's a lot of what we've done now going back to to the earlier slide uh some other things that we've done um that that mops has done in addition to the you know in addition to kind of the the uh the work internal to the working group is providing external community engagement right so uh the smt smpte updates sympty updates uh streaming video alliance updates um we have a paper that we submitted to simpty earlier this year that we're going to be presenting on in uh i think it's in december uh but don't quote me on that um so there's there's a bunch of stuff that we've done and i'm you know i'm pleased with how the with how the working group has been has been going but i mean there are questions about how we can increase um the efficacy of the working group like what can we do to make ourselves more effective right i mean meeting in person yeah that would be great that would you know solve a lot of the problems that you know or or at least eliminate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "many of the challenges that we see today but unfortunately that's not actionable we're either going to have an in-person meeting or we're not and we don't have any control over that that's going to be a you know that's a kind of a shared uh decision uh among all the itf participants do we just carry on as is are things going well enough that we think that we're you know that we're on the right track um you know we should just make incremental changes from here on in um do we broaden draft scope or we talked before about uh looking at the augmented reality draft and saying well maybe this is maybe the the use case is much more specific than the problems described so maybe we ought to broaden the scope there it's another option um some things that we probably should do is figure out how to unblock some of the unmet milestones right i mean we have milestones that we added to the data tracker back at the very beginning and they haven't you know some of them haven't been finished yet right so what can we do to get those moving along um should we solicit feedback from non-participants are there people who have you know thought about participating in mops uh and decided not to or are there people who don't know about mops and maybe we ought to figure out maybe why they don't why they don't know about it um should we coordinate with in-progress standards activity uh going on elsewhere in in the ietf right so uh so uh we could have uh we could do something experimental like designate point participants for interaction with other with other working groups both within the ietf and other standards organizations and get you know either written reports or or just you know presentations at meetings uh so that we can kind of spread information about these things in a more efficient manner um having some forecasts about where we think the industry is going so we can foresee what what areas of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "bring that information to relevant uh working groups that's another that's another uh option um do we have uh do we wanna have some sort of vision or road map for itf contributions to the media ecosystem right so the media ecosystem is vast and confusing ietf participants may only see a small part of it and not understand how it fits into sort of the the larger media ecosystem and so maybe we could develop some problem statements for internet media operations to clarify some of the challenges that we're seeing um and maybe to use the the challenges to then suggest uh directions for future work um and finally uh you know uh should we solicit input from other working groups facing similar challenges right i i think one of the things i don't have a good a good beat on is to what extent other working groups are seeing engagement challenges uh resulting from the lack of in-person meetings and i'd you know and and whether you know if some other working groups have seen similar challenges what have they done uh over the past you know 20 months to to uh to help work on those so uh now i'm going to throw it open to to the floor for thoughts suggestions um looks like glenn wants to make some comments yeah and probably to peddle some of the crap that i've just said before we get there uh before we get there i think um we should ask eric to give an update on the iesg review of the working group since that was one of our milestones to request uh speaking so thank you for inviting me before i actually request indeed so you know the mops is a kind of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "time bomb attached to it right we need to kind of renew the working group for me uh it's okay it's doing uh i was really concerned the beginning of this meeting right when i saw at the top of the hour only 11 people attending the meeting it was kind of scary because mobs is basically to attract people sharing the same common interests right so now we we peak at 40 we are 33 so that's okay i think uh i've also heard a very interesting discussion in the last two hours or an hour and a half so i'm pretty satisfied i know that warren which is kind of the ops um area director right so i'm interior director but not using uh in synopse is also happy with the functioning and how mops works he's unable to join today because i guess it's a dns office at the same time it is of course more important for him than mobs the issue of other working group with these not in person meetings is everywhere right it's more critical here like you said guy because it was really met uh mean as a place to gather people with the shared interest but the lack of work is eating mostly everywhere specifically the lack of new work so we have a measure at the isg about the number of dash zero zero draft and this one is lower than two years ago for all the working groups uh we don't do it per area so maybe some areas are more uh impacted than others but it's everywhere okay and as leslie we talked also before when god and myself and and lastly we were preparing this meeting that you think i had no time to investigate further but you think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "the new zero zero uh only coming from very interested parties right so with a kind of a lot of small party trying to do new work um so for me i'm pretty fine uh we already discussed the mops at the previous iesg meeting uh and it was continuing right so everyone says okay go on and i remember what i said last time iot ops is very similar to mobs right and more and more when you do both for creating new work including sometimes say oh is it ala right uh is it a mobs like so mobs now is a an adjective somehow right uh in the isg slang so for me yes it is it's okay it's a good job and good job summary uh kind by the way thanks eric and just to close the loop my understanding is that the uh we were reviewed after two years and we are not dead yet so um just to be clear yeah two years it's maybe it's basically you know right there is a debrief of the isg and the iab next week uh i will talk about mobs there and say yes it's two years it's extended one year okay thank you everybody sort of damocles is still there [Laughter] ben i was wrong in that i don't want to correct anything he said i thought you did it really well thanks kyle um for running through that i i just want to add you know i've been a long-time proponent for mops you know going way back and and you know i think we've done a lot of good stuff um you know the core problem that was a lot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "of my motivation in the past is that we have the number one use the internet by you know data and scaling and deriving to add those bigger pipes is video and we've always had a sort of a historic slight disconnect with the representation of voices trying to do video stuff when we talked about things at the itf and being a video guy that was always a thing well we need to fix this and you know the reason why other groups of the itf you know are very active i think you produce a lot of zero zero drafts as eric points out is that we have a real established community especially if you look at transport i mean transport's been core at the itf for how long and and and things like dns has been core at the itm this is the home where those people come and they talk they have a community established um you know we have a number of parties from different organizations that all know each other have known each other for decades that come together and work on problems and i think that we're sort of the early days of reaching that gap between the itf and these video guys out there which are producing all these documents but i'm seeing a very positive you know developments you know i'm seeing that we have um you know when places like cd and i needed working group chairs you know sanjay was around uh to step up and become a co-chair of cdni uh which connects to like you know the real world and the real delivery folks versus just people developing technology uh you know and we have other things that are being discussed and thrown around that is creating a welcoming home for the people from that video world that are doing all these video things on the internet and driving all the traffic and all the scalability to come into the itf and have conversations and i think that mobs has shown through the parties that are coming here and i believe the parties that will still come um that you know when people ask the question you know i come from a video world i i need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "to engage back to you how do i do that but that now that box exists it's the place to say well you can talk to the box guys first they may not be the right final destination but they're the right first destination and they can you know help you bring in they can be a friendly voice a friendly a friend face and help things mature to a point where they're ready then connect with other itf working groups and build that bigger community so it's early days but i see that community developing nicely and and i'm very helpful hopeful that we're going to see you know this continue on and and and the relationships grow and so that you know 10 years now we're gonna have this whole room full of you know itf video people that have known each other for 10 years and when there's a new problem a new thing to work on this is where they come to do it so that's just my two cents i want to throw in all right thanks glenn uh sanjay sanjay did you want to go ahead yeah yeah i i just wanted to uh echo what uh glenn just said uh so well i think there's a lot of issues that are not necessarily well defined in terms of that you know i know i know i need some work on protocols so i i itf working groups are the right place there are many cases operationally where um mob seems like a good you know first place to start and bring the question that that may not be you know wanting to change the protocol but maybe you know the making sure that you understand it and you implement it right so some of those types of areas really fit well within you know what this working group can offer so i think there's a great deal of value"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "and obviously the as um kyle was saying that you know we don't have the luxury right now of meeting in person so a lot of those hallway conversations that may happen and that may lead to people that are attending a specific you know working group but they may show up here because oh yeah that's really an operational issue that at least we should bring it back into the mob's working group so we we kind of don't have that uh right now but regardless of that i think this is a good venue where um i know sva can benefit a lot you know streaming video alliance there are a lot of different operational issues and best practices that they are dealing with some of which might actually lead to some work in in the um within the different working groups within ietf but at least mops is one place where we can we think we can bring some of the discussions great thank you sanjay yeah yeah i agree and i i think it's i think it's clear that it's it's been useful to a lot of folks so i'm uh i'm optimistic um and i'm definitely supportive of continuing the working group um from the chair standpoint i think the only thing that's really troubling me in all of this is how quiet the mailing list is and as i alluded to earlier the sort of bifurcation between the people who come to meetings and the discussion that doesn't happen on the mailing list and i don't entirely know how to address that i mean i think the reality is a lot of mailing lists have gotten quiet and just because mail is so last century um and um it isn't helped by the fact that we don't have the sort of vibrant people know each other community thing going on but i'm i'm saying it here in my out loud voice just because i think it is an area that we're going to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "to find answers to um if we want to successfully progress through discussions of topics and documents and last calls and whatnot um as as we go along glenn are you wanting to say more or are you just lounging in queue scared him out of cue nope i'm not the microphone luke say from my personal experience i haven't known when to interact with this working group like even just a little blurb about media over quick earlier i i wasn't sure if it's appropriate to like say what i've been working on in this working group or if i should just go straight to like a more specific one like media over quick so it kind of means at least in my mind i discussions are either scoped correctly already uh or end up in like the catch-all and mops right well and i think it's it's a good question and and maybe partly because even if you review the history of discussions on the on the mailing list you're not going to see a lot of exemplars but i mean i would say at this point the mailing list is going to be what we make it um and speaking of this one one chair i would rather see more discussion there more ideas tossed out there than fewer so certainly please don't feel shy yeah if something's off topic we'll we'll let you know kindly and gently like in this specific example i can talk about media over quick and it's fine even if there is already another mailing list for it yeah i think that's a particular area where you know the ietf is trying to figure out what it's doing so uh i wouldn't want to get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "in the way of an organized activity of media over quick but if there are things that we can do to help in discussion we'd be happy to be see it happen on the mailing list all right any other questions comments suggestions complaints come on people have to have complaints all right uh oh jake one last uh not not complaint i think you guys are doing great uh but uh regarding the mailing list being last century it made me wonder there is a ietf slack uh room should we i'm not sure it'll be any better but uh and it's i'm in a couple of rooms there i think it's usually pretty quiet but i'm not sure if uh if anybody would prefer that and i thought i'd just ask um instead of leaving it in chat or i think you got missed yeah that's that's a good question and i would suggest if you don't mind dropping it in the notes that would be great too um i think that we may want to do that we're still going to wind up with the same question we had about the working group last call which is if it doesn't happen on the mailing list it didn't happen um so it maybe we need a slack channel and more comments on the mailing list one observation i wonder if part of you know part of the the work we're doing here is to bridge in culturally these folks that aren't traditionally itf people but coming from the video world and i'm wondering if we need to help uh them uh adapt to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "what's appropriate on the itf family lists you know if i'm new to an area i i probably want to adapt whatever the local culture is and since we're fairly low volume and fairly new uh we don't have necessarily like a demonstratable culture that they can plug right into and i'm not sure how to solve it other than say you know we're very welcoming and please post uh maybe those of us who are here already just need to take it upon ourselves to be a little more chatty on the list um to demonstrate sort of a culture of openness and engagement yep that's a good suggestion thanks all right well uh unless anybody has any other other business i think we are at we are at time and we are done kyle anything else i don't have anything else well then thank you very much jake for taking the notes and thanks everyone who helped thanks to our presenters and thanks to everyone engaging in discussion here as always it was i thought a useful meeting and great have a great rest of iutf to see you soon thanks everyone you"
  }
]
