[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign okay it's time it is time go for it oh yeah okay good afternoon everybody Welcome to jmap and in a little while extra um happy to happy to see so many people in person here so as uh uh as is usual we're going to start with the the note well slide I'm hoping that all of you are very familiar with this but I will continue to narrate a little bit about it anyway uh it's uh of course important that we make sure that everybody's on the same page with respect to things like intellectual property rights and definitely with the code of conduct as well and so if you have not read this in detail already many times I I would encourage you to do it again next slide so um we're going to start with uh uh updates on uh oh well this is the very top level agenda isn't it yeah so um uh we're gonna start with on the on the jmap side we're going to cover a couple of drafts that are in uh last call or otherwise submitted to iesg and then we have uh about a half a dozen uh different uh discussions about about various uh gmap drafts on calendars contacts quotas sharing and tasks and sender and S Prime Center extensions baby there'll be a couple days please hop straight up and talk if you'd like to is this a time for agenda bashing yeah oh I just want to say that the the the migration data portability is not on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "agenda right now it's on the copy the gender and not on my slides because I didn't perfect thank you okay and then uh I don't know are we bashing the agenda for you for extra as well at this point uh there's the agenda for extra which I am less familiar with not being yeah I think the only bashing we had for this is that stiff knows it's your process I'm basically have had no progress since last iacf but maybe president was supposed to go to last four so we'll we'll deal with that when we get there closer to the microphone sure um yeah so we we think that Civ process I met was probably supposed to go to last call and can't remember what happened with that but we have had no progress on either of them since last meeting so we'll we'll glance through the state of them when we get there okay did you catch the agenda bash for the minutes or I wasn't doing that yes okay thanks I hadn't uh realize that went by quickly we're doing this double X very well I mean should we get straight into the first item on the agenda which is uh blob I don't have any slides for blob I had one review from sector which I have replied to and I've submitted a new version with the fixes from that um I don't think there's anything else to say unless our area director has any comments on no I'm just I'm just getting set up and I want to if I say no now I might come back to it in a couple of minutes but if cool I don't I can't think of anything off topic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "excellent uh next item here is the sieve which is also has been Alexi please yeah so Murray uh had some AG review comments which one on blocking I'm sorry I didn't get to them but I will they didn't seem particularly controversial I think so Okay so yep we are we're up to save now yes Save action registration yeah yes yep no we're doing great here okay rewind Brawn is responsible for blob I'm responsible for safe actions with Cam really because started Alaska also this is kind of I think Alexi's getting ahead of himself I think Civic action registry is part of the extra session this is the jmap this is jmap for Civ oh I'm stealing your document I'm sorry Ken uh yeah so I don't know if people notice there is a an email to the list um someone had requested uh two other items in there which I think were probably better off as extensions uh I forgot to tell my head what they were oh one of them they wanted ability to uh uh recall failed action why why an action had failed through this protocol uh I think it's probably too far along to add that now it seems right for an extension if somebody wants that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "only other issue that was brought up that might want to be discussed here uh currently to uh deactivate a script you basically use the uh activate script with a empty string the request was to have a second another property which specifically disables a script as opposed to using enable with an empty string which follows what manage Civ did I have no strong opinion either way I'll leave it up to the group to decide if we want to add that at this point or just leave it as is it's it's functionally equivalent it's just a separate property anybody want to comment on this sheet is open Alexi yeah push the button if you don't follow the process we won't know who's talking okay so uh now I'm with you on the right save document um yeah I bought the activation that was a bit of a bike shed I think but I'm kind of I don't really care you know just tell tell me what either what's the meaning of empty string is or what's how to deactivate so I don't mind yeah the the spec as I wrote it was following the model outlined by manage Civ uh for better for worse uh and this model is exactly what that does again if people feel strongly about having another property I'm willing to do it but at this late in the game if there aren't strong opinions I'm inclined is to leave it as is Neil"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "hello first of all it shouldn't accept empty string the spec actually says or null it's ID or null um and an empty string is not an ID and it is not null so that that should be an invalid argument so if you sent that um the advantage to having a separate property you I could see would be if um if you don't want it to change you don't have to admit to the whole thing you can always submit not every argument uh which I could see being potentially a thing for strictly typed languages in particular it might be awkward to have to admit something rather than provide a default but other than that I don't you're too strongly either way but I would say yes definitely no rather than empty string if you're keeping it um sorry the chairs just disorganized here go ahead um yeah so it you're suggesting that we do add a separate property I could see the advantage of that for yeah not having um to to deal with this yet like you know you can consider like an argument to a method and there's no value you can pass here that would not do something um if it's with with the current spec which is perhaps slightly weird you have to omit it so I think probably I would lean towards adding a separate um can happy you want to take her home whatever it doesn't matter to me and well you're the author if you're happy to do it then yep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "that's Ken saying no big deal he will do it excellent um I don't think we're gonna need to do a new working group last call for this it's a small change yes okay go ahead hi assistant York um I remember Ken that is quite some time ago I think we had a very small exchange on a minor topic on this civ4j map thing and I just relooked it because it somehow went dormant a little bit and it's related to what we discussed in Vienna about Sif in um in non-j map context with um you know how people build safe rules together as a system from what's coming basically um and I think my concern with respect to Civ for J map was that it would be nice to actually have a mechanism to know which was the or is the underlying system which um you know owns a server software so I wonder if this is something that could go into a property here or is it something I'm not quite sure that could be derived from the jmap um overall response I'm not sure if there's somewhere seven meter data I think that isn't right now right yeah so the background of the question is so there is so the observation is that empirically in practice um Sif is um very much structured by the use of the underlying software so there is for instance certain web mailers that have a very clear structure of the Sif rules which they create and it's helpful for a consuming client to know that and typically when you use manage sift directly you have a greeting so you know actually this is coming from certain server implementation like a Zimbra or whatever kind of thing and you can do actually apply your changes sometimes you have it within the sift script but in case of jmap I think it might be the case that search for jmap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "might be wrapping existing underlying skim servers so that information somehow is currently not able to be retrieved in my opinion and it would be good to have maybe a mechanism for that ideally it would be the server head of via HTTP I guess but um if this is important we could we could add a another property to the capability which lists the implementation but my guess is that some sites might want to suppress that and not leak what their what their implementation or version is but I can certainly add it all right um can I ask maybe that we discussed this on the list is cool excellent then let's move on to calendar which is the next item on the list Neil did you want to drive the slides I think I think if you request slide control um you can just take them directly from the pre-loaded slides where would I do that uh top left hand side there's a share pre-loaded slides button is wow [Music] um yeah yeah cool clever so I think uh this was hopefully going to be fairly brief so we can um move us along uh I published uh version nine draft about a month ago um which had a few updates in it um so the probably the biggest one is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "um we've had this big discussion I've been calyx about adding schedule ID to JS calendar to participants um which identifies that participant kind of globally uh this would often just be essentially a mail to URI with someone's email address uh or something like that but basically separating out the ID of a participant from the methods of contacting them which is in the sanitary property uh and why this is important for jmap calendars is we need uh to be able to look at an event and go which of these participants is you the logged in user and before we were looking through all of the send to options and going would I received any of these but this kind of simplifies that because we can now just look at the schedule ID and go is this I'd ID one of the user schedule IDs you may have multiple because you might have like different email addresses that aliases they're all you but it's still comparing um you're not doing a nested Loop kind of comparison so it's it's a simplifies things but I think so um that was the biggest change we also added this uh is origin Property we discussed this at the last uh ITF meeting which is just the server notifying uh putting a property on the event to say it is the authoritative source for this event so if you make changes it's going to send out it messages to all the other participants and expect to receive RSVPs um as opposed to if that's of course then you've received this from someone else and you'll be sending out RSVPs back to them uh finally the other kind of bigger change was moving this Sherry's actors property which simplified the spec we added this originally to give flexibility um for kind of different modes of sharing but we looked around it didn't seem that the the two modes were not that different and didn't seem anyone actually needed both and from existing implementations and removing complexity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "is I think a worthwhile thing so we took that out uh and then I added quite a few API examples so with that I believe that I'll mute the next slide this is basically finished I need to fix up some editorial stuff including section references that are missing and just say section XXX rather than property linking but do all that and we're gonna definitely need to wait to ensure the JS Canada schedule ID stuff is finalized um because we can't have that critical to how a lot of this works so we can't have that changing underneath us if that doesn't end up doing what we think it's going to do um so hopefully though we can publish this soon probably with the JS calendar this um whenever that comes along um so I do encourage you to have a look if you want to make any fire you know further comments on it uh jorus hi this is Joe's bomb um yeah so um I recently synced the JS the Gemma tasks draft with your changes from calendar because yes there are a lot of um commonalities yeah so one thing I stumbled upon is the calendar preferences object for now I rev refrain from um tagging along here so um my take on this in in jmap mail there's a role property right what the folder is supposed to be is it an inbox is it a draft and for calendars this also was there do you have the role property of a of a calendar folder was it I think it was inbox only for now right um basically to to say this is the default folder of a user"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "and in the newest version you move this to a separate object so um I just wanted to to understand the so what I don't really like about this that we now have two approaches one is in in mail this is inside the folder object it's it's a it's a one property and in calendars this is a separate object yeah um I just wanted to know the reasoning behind that before I tag along here sure so I think we did discuss this at the previous idea the the big difference with the mail stuff is that that's immutable there whereas this is something that can move around um and so the trouble is you're trying to enforce that at most one of the calendars is the default because it doesn't really make sense if you had multiple and so you get um I think a it's kind of easier to kind of enforce that with a single object where it's just there there is no way of specifying multiple uh so I think that's why we changed it but um that's my recollection I don't know uh Robert you're NICU maybe you remember better you go and then I'll come back to it it's Robert yeah yeah so um regarding the in short Chase kind of work is finished part um and the dependency now of uh gmap calendars requiring scheduler D to be defined for JS calendar so on Tuesday at calex we were setting the deadline for GS cannabis to Summer next year um and so I and and this was done when we were under the assumption that there is no hard dependency of jmf calendars on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "JS calendar base um but now I think it is there is we might want to revisit yeah I think we agreed that we would just hold GM calendars until Jess calendar best Publishers but have it ready to go together okay yeah all right yeah okay well then yeah was the the role versus references um sorry I was not completely following the discussion shortly because I looked at another thing so what's what's the question there so it's about why we changed from having kind of uh a property for like is default or actually had roll its inbox but on the count object having the calendar preferences separate object the reference them um well we because we said we only want to have one default um one of the reasons was that it is that it was more straightforward to us to have one property where this is defined rather than implementations requiring to um look at all the roles of their calendars and make sure that their requirements are satisfied um I mean we do already need to do that for for jmap mailbox but um but other than that I don't I don't have a strong opinion on either um so if sounds like we'll have time if we want to reopen that on the main list that's a smaller yeah topic Josh so so one insurance so on um crazy thing one could do is basically have both you know like it's uh the calendar preferences object is already defined as an extension to the core calendar spec so the system could say Okay um I have this I only implement the core capabilities and I only have the role"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "inside the as a property inside the folder or you could say oh I also have this fancy Kanda preferences object and you don't need to go through all the calendar folders to find out what's the default you just fetch the counter preferences object it's I I don't have actually strong feelings regarding that just for our use case it would be easier if it's inside the folder for your use case probably it's easier if it's a separate object yeah it might make sense to take this to a list yeah but just an idea of mine or do you do you have any feedback on having both because it's it might be kind of weird as well definitely rather not have both I think I think one or the other um it's gonna get confusing people only look at one and not realize there's another one or which will only work in some places or something like that if it's in two different places so I think I think one's better yeah I'm fine with taking it to a list thank you thanks hi this is Sans York um I didn't have the time to look it up direct Kings back and I don't know it by heart maybe it's inside but it sounded a little bit like what Robert said like the default folder you see only role you have in mind here for calendars is it correct that there's just one such role which you currently consider yeah I mean we we it's not called roll anymore it's it's default calendars so point I would like to make is that Sam might also encounters be other roads like you know you have this kind of auto-generated birthday calendars um and there is I think two or three other examples I would need to look that up so probably that would speak more for World Properties and if there's multiple ones then you know having a fixed set of properties in the calendar preferences which you had to extend I don't know I need to look it up but just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "want to make the point already generated birthdays is something that's quite common a Fastenal has one as well so whether you need a role for instance matter but yeah if you did then yeah so there's a reason why is that neutral supplies that could be helpful to asset as a royal calendar it's because in some systems you are not permitted to interact with these calendars because they are just auto-generated uh well that would be exposed by the permissions you have like if you could be exposed as a read-only calendar yes but what I mean I mean it's a special purpose calendar so that means okay the ACLS are part of it but some systems also displays them differently and so on and so on that's true I mean I think that kind of thing right like yeah you know this is a birthday calendar and it's a synced from elsewhere counter I don't know like once you have greater than one like different options you kind of yeah I actually checks out how different systems do it like I can't but I need to look it up sure okay all right so that's what I have um for actions for this where I have role versus preference discussions to list any other actions for now for jam up calendars other than please review which is the the perennial topic no all right we might as well just keep going with sharing Neil since you already you already have the slides up great sure um I mean this has even less to say about it because um it's basically I did publish an update but it was mainly kind of going to and doing copy edits there was only one actual change I think which was adding this accounts property which is uh to the principal object and basically this was about I realized if you were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "the sharing um information from calendars and mail and like you know different things they were all duplicating this whole account object inside them uh which was getting messy and you know needless duplication so kind of move that up to top level property that the other ones could just reference the idea of um that's that's it and I think you know this is a fairly much simpler spec in some ways it was extracted out of calendars because we were so it was pretty generic across the different things you could do sharing with um I think that one's pretty ready uh to be honest um but again we probably want to publish at the same time as as GM calendars um we could publish in advance I guess but um yeah I don't know if anyone has any other comments in this one Q's Open nobody looks particularly excited is there any reason I guess to hold it up can joke was first actually yep go ahead this is Ken my only question would be if this applies to jmap email then I say go ahead and publish it whenever it's ready if it only applies to calendars and contacts the emails away so it kind of it's a slightly abstract spec it defines the things that are common that you also have to say I'm going to share this stuff because you have to Define some things um but you certainly could apply to mail but that would actually be a separate spec in terms of letting you manage your mailbox sharing using this model um but yeah I think it definitely could be published actually because it's it's not dependent on it's the other way around calendars one is dependent on this one uh then I'd suggest we probably should publish it first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "sounds good okay I'll look at fixing all the editorial stuff from that first all right so first action is Neil to fix editorial and then we go ahead and do a last call yeah I think so can I ask you to take that one Jim when it's sure cool um cool you mean Shepherd yeah did the working group last call and Shepherd sure ready cool thank you and with that I think thank you Neil that's that's your two topics wasn't it so gem for quotas is the next one in the list according to this Renee if you want to pop in line hello sure hello uh turn off on my screen yeah hello guys uh this is Renee uh so I've been about Gemma coupon actually it's in last call as well so it's gonna be a pretty uh quick uh uh so yeah there is uh some minor tapos to to fix uh Murray thanks for reviewing it I think I will uh I will push something before the end of the of the week uh [Music] then yeah we're just saying as well we started uh doing a first uh partial implementation of gmatical in uh in James so for no just could I get method uh the rest will follow soon enough uh if people want I could show a little demo I mean that depends on you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "sure we've got time sir all right uh questions cream yep I'll just unslide and then go okay all right so I just recorded the video I want to be sure to not have problems and make it fast because we know how it goes right during demos in real time uh so yeah just a user with his mailbox uh uh just uh so getting his quotas uh he has nokutas for no defined the list is empty uh doing a good uh so checking with the uh just a web admin uh uh from the server side that there is no quota setup then we're gonna set the coton sorry this user yes can you probably Zoom it in your application because it's very hard to read here on the production is it uh uh I mean I'm sharing my old screen I don't know how it works okay so if it's a browser I don't know it's a video here sorry yeah uh yeah it's great it's clear it's clear on this one [Laughter] uh so yeah okay I continue so we just set up a cuta for that user and then uh then we check through the server the web admin there is uh then yeah we we do a Qatar get through J map again and so yeah we see that we set it up two cutas uh one with count in the account and one with uh octet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "on mail uh and then I just like send a quick clear mail to show that uh to myself to show that there is an update in the in the quota content size this is just quick but then yeah checking again and then we see that the Contour increased so yeah that's pretty much it would be good thanks uh and then that's pretty much it for good so after I I wanted to uh share something with identities but I don't know if you want to wait uh at the end yeah let's do it let's do it now okay yeah uh sure so uh regarding gemap identities uh when our front-end team uh started uh implementing uh the identities uh with their with the mobile application uh uh they ask us uh yeah we don't see uh anything to get the foot identity to show it like the users have multiple identities and after checking against the spec realized that Yes actually there is a nothing defined in jmap for that uh so we pulled it a little bit and uh what we think uh is just adding uh salt or the field uh like for the mailbox for example where uh I mean the lowest number would be uh your first identity so it would be the default one to show and then the higher it goes and you get the list of identity depending on the of the ore uh so uh so I mean that that would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "the proposition uh uh we want to make I see some people have questions yeah just I actually didn't want to interrupt I just wanted to get in the queue but um yeah we also had a look at that and we also saw the same thing that there are okay a lot of systems that have a default signature um so actually we also came up with our own thing I'm gonna post it in the chat um oh sure okay yeah it's just an in that you know there's not nothing ITF it's just our own extension um we actually have identified signature name um that sometimes that's missing in the spec and there's also some systems have a default for new signature for a reply signature forward signature uh yeah just wanted to say that there are there are additional properties missing as well for some systems yeah could maybe discuss that more under this uh I mean we did as well have uh we do as well have a custom extension for that sort all the field extra property hmm thank you as well yes Neil yeah so just joining the I think saw order may not be the right way to do this because if okay if you have to order property that would imply to me that you expect me to be able to manually order these things I mean we can do that in your product but that would be surprising to me like I've not like I've seen lots of things let you drag and drop mailboxes around to to find a custom sort order but when you have a list of like things or identities generally they just sorted alphabetical or whatever by a client um so if you're not going to support that that seems adding I guess I mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "I guess maybe the the the like the client who could want uh to have as a default Identity or something that is not alphabetically uh sorted you know or sure so but so specifying default is fine but that would just be like we were discussing with the calendar stuff like a single property as opposed to a sort of defect means that every single identity you have has some you know ordering that's strictly defined and that starts to quite context I think probably more than it's that's very important that's fair okay cool and yeah dkg go ahead uh hi there just wanted to um plus one the last two folks and sort of synthesize them a little bit there are potentials for multiple types of defaults right like the default for a particular reply I think was mentioned before but there's other like I might want a different default when I'm replying to a particular person um I mean they start to get a little bit fiddly and I'm not saying that you want to specify all of these things um but but but really what you want is you want default and non-default in a given context and so I think you could say here's the generic context if you don't know what context you're in here's the default specify that here it's just a flag and then that leaves room for somebody to say oh I want to fly I want to make a default for some other context they can figure out how to specify that in a separate document thanks for doing this work okay uh yeah that sounds interesting as well um I think just a flag for the default and I guess for the for just at least soldering it uh like Neil said could just be by alphabetical order for the rest or uh certainly has more complex ability to say um if you're in a particular folder to use particular identities or replying to particular people to select the identity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "that matches the address that you was sent to so if you're applying from a particular just something of a central particular address it goes back to that Neil yeah briefly say the reason I believe we didn't specify this in general mail this because it can get complex and different clients quite recently want might want to do different behaviors and so it was hard to specify something that really kind of would be universally in trouble for people okay yeah okay I get it it can be like different uh uh ways uh someone would use the the identities uh but I think maybe yeah just at least a flag saying like this is a default one like something simple uh then if you want to do something more complex maybe an extension I don't know uh we can I think it would have to be an extension anyway like you can't I don't think we can add this property as navrata it's not a okay okay I I didn't catch what this was mentioned or not but a very common case is uh in in the same organization in the same domain or outside where inside you might have you know an extension number listed and outside you might have a full phone number or something of that sort huh okay okay okay all right thank you what action are we looking at here do we take this to the mailing list to discuss what to do right I mean we can I think we can take it to the mailing lists uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "sure is sorry I just wanted to mention one thing for for user as it is right now in jmap you you could just come up with your own extension right your own capability and then uh yeah do that um but yeah of course if there's interest that makes sort of I think it makes sense to discuss it in the IDF context to come up with a well-defined thing yeah just want to mention that possibility in case some people all right uh so do you want to start the discussion on the Middle Eastern Renee okay I will maybe send something to more in a minute for you all right uh thank you if no other questions and um that lives to sit to the next cool all right we'll connect on our agenda I believe is gemap for tasks you can come up to the front microphone if you like you can see the nice screen oh yeah and much nicer from seeing the other one we're doing we're doing great here but the microphones like this okay okay probably pick the microphone hey okay so tasks yeah um version five is the current version so next slide please I'm George Baum from odriga by the way um so yeah as a reminder like every time um the idea here for tasks is to make it a common standard not only for grouper systems focused on mail but also for kanban boards or issue trackers this is one of the core things we're working on but of course we also want to include grouper next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "yeah so what's new in the newest version as I said before I tagged along with most changes in calendars then I worked in some feedback from the last ITF one of them was that estimated work should only mention the direction and not I don't know what did I have Fibonacci scale or something um so now it's only defined larger means more work for the estimated work property which is a property of a task another thing that was mentioned at last ITF was that there are now we the the tasks back now has a bunch of new extensions defined or or capabilities defined that's brexit or that's a bit different from from in this respect it's a bit different from jmap calendar um so we have a bunch of groups um for use cases that are using a common feature set and basically the ideas that implementers can then choose which group they want to implement and last ITF there it came up that there was some some clarification needed so now the text also includes um it or mentions that in case a capability what happens when a client is using an unsupported capability then the server should throw an unknown capability errors or it's just as it's defined in the in the jmap calls back already it's just mentioned again in this spec um yeah and what happens if a client uses extensions that the server doesn't understand in this case the server should store those properties and just ignore them that's yeah how I extended the spec"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "or that's I clarify that in respect okay next slide please so one thing I want to discuss about today is what could be new in Jama for tasks version 6. um here you can see a task from Trello um and it contains actually two checklists that are inside this task uh one checklist is called keep in mind and then you see two checklist items that are not done yet and the other one is another checklist with two other check those items here so you there are actually systems where you can have this as a feature and actually widely used systems next slide please yeah so it would be nice to have that also in general tasks um we see that in Google workspace Microsoft to do planner Factor click up a lot of systems use checklists not a lot of views multiple named checklists assigned to a single task so as I here I have the observed features um in those systems for now I only found those that feature within Trello but Trello is an important server um most most systems have a title for checklists or that's actually a checklist item that has a title or all I'll check this items have a title actually so all Checkers items have a simple done or not done State there's a position last modified stamp that's only visible in the UI usually and an sine is also sometimes used so we have a bunch of features for this functionality that are very common common or not so common but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "still important next slide please so the question here is how to actually support that um here is an example how to do that in I calendar somehow um this is from feedback that we got from one of the task list the task system vendors so on the left side we see the first vehicle in the item which is basically a checklist um that is in relation to another um another task uh another oh sorry it's not a v event that's my mistake it's a v to do um that's in relation to another to-do item which is a checklist item so what you can use in iconetter right now is to have related to basically and then you have the checklist as a special kind of task that is actually a folder that's related to much simpler tasks in a parent-child relationship okay the question is can we do better than or as and also there's this X type thing that also defines is it a checklist or not um so the questions can we do better than that and basically the idea here is to find out how do we do that in jmap tasks if you have some opinions on that so next slide please so my first proposal is to since checklists are so simple basically and check items are also very simple we could just have a tasks on the right hand side um and we could just say a task can also contain most one or more checklists basically which is an own object"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "and this checklist can then contain all objects on itself on its own which are check items and so both of them are very simple objects and the task can have those inside the checklist property basically first suggestions or you can see there's a task has a checklist with the title this is a checklist and has a one check item with this is an item on the checklist next slide please I have another one another proposal very good yeah so this is basically to model it somehow like I calendar already like it's somewhere already possibly with an iCloud Calendar just use the relation deal related to field and uh in this case I add I added a new relation type which is like a checklist child or a checklist parent or a check item parent check item child um to the relation um so on the left hand side you see a task in the middle you see a checklist and on the right hand side you can see a checklist item yeah so that's like basically the second proposal um yeah I also there's also an alternative that you could add another add type maybe as well so it's not just a simple task then it's it's the whole the whole task object then gets uh checklist object as an as a type or a checklist item object as a type just yeah but I'm not sure about this idea just put it on there so next slide please now the question do you have any preference between those two things I hope you were able to follow um if not okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "so I I haven't Robert said but I haven't given much thought on which which of either I would prefer uh because I haven't um um thought through the use case fully yet but for the this example with the list I want so I wonder like if it's already a list why is there a sort order property and it's the list rather than this idiom that we typically use in chain map like a map of ID to something um was that on purpose not chosen here well I don't know I think it's a bit simpler if it's just a simple list so um there can be good reasons why to use Listia I just wanted to understand if if that was a deliberate Choice um using this more this key value um idiom that we use allows for simpler patching basically so like removing uh or adding stuff because you don't have to send the full list again oh yeah um well that makes sense yeah that's a good suggestion if you want to preserve the order then in the list then I think the sort order property would um wouldn't be of use anymore right so yeah yeah but as I said in so in terms of preference the second uh proposal um looked more familiar to me in terms of how other types are specified in in jmap objects but um as I said that can be very well reasons to do it like this um okay that's nice feedback thank you very much foreign so Jim Fenton is participant um less about the representation of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "multiple checklists but more about how they're going to be handled as a under if I understood the introduction properly there are some clients that support multiple checklists and others that do not all I was talking mainly about the service server software um didn't try to use clients with a Trello right so right but but yeah they have an API as well yeah so yeah but but we we need to consider in terms of the server capabilities need to consider what the what the clients can render yes and definitely so if you have a client that only that does not support multiple checklists yeah do we have a way of determining the client capabilities and somehow handling that or does do like the the second and subsequent checklists just disappear or or what I mean that that would seem to be bad it would be better if you could even take them multiple checklists and and merge them together somehow for representation if the client doesn't have that capability you don't want to just lose the lose the other checklists yeah that makes sense well that I would say that's up to the client how to how to handle that and yeah so yeah I'm I'm not clear on whether that's a client responsibility or or a server response you know you could kind of think of it as a an interoperability capability to interoperate between clients that do and do not support multiple checklists I think the question here is how fine-grained we want this capability mechan but okay what we could do maybe is have uh like like a flag of the capability to say oh I'm a server and I'm using multiple checklists by the way so please um make sure make sure you handle this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "somehow this is what I can imagine here in this scenario and then the client sees that that flag and then says okay or or does the client have uh okay advertise its capabilities and if it doesn't say that it supports multiple checklists then you know we do something magical in terms of not trying to uh force that on them foreign but yeah it's a valid point definitely Robert stapping again um the other thing I was wondering about is are the assignee and is complete properties um in your proposes um so what's the difference between an assignee uh and a participant that already is defined for tasks it's just yeah that's the thing like a checklist item would then be much simpler right so I try to keep it as simple as possible in this checklist item um to not pull in the whole complexity of big blown task basically so yeah um well it's just much simpler the assignee is just a user I uh user ID actually needs to be a participant then right yeah you're right that's or it's a yeah anyway the goal is to make it much simpler it's not perfectly written down yet I didn't put it in the spec yet it's it's uh yeah try to gather some feedback on how I approached it so on the on the left hand side I'm not sure if I actually explained that well um each"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the task the checklist to check this item it's it's each a full-blown task basically you know the big difference is the relation between them and on the right hand side uh the checklist item is much simpler it's not a full-blown task you cannot do all the things with it that you can do with a task you know that's the and typically that's how it's implemented and you don't want all the features of a normal task in a checklist yeah that's that's one of the main differences here right hand side much simpler left hand side full complexity so that's why the assignee also is different and the is complete is also different it's just a Boolean it's not a progress yeah so um I'm biased obviously I would think that um the left hand side so using a full plan task um would allow for all of that that you want to achieve with checklist minus the uh Simplicity or ease of implementation um but probably there is a middle ground where um one can Define what parts of the scheduling of a task must be implemented for uh to achieve checklist for example so maybe one could still use the the already defined scheduling properties and um just not require applications to implement all of scheduling if I understand this that this might be too much for some applications I mean yeah I mean if you already Implement scheduling for normal tasks and you should not be far away from it from using it for check items as well that's my thoughts yeah there's a capability that you can say I have the scheduling I support scheduling or I don't that's already in the tasks back um yeah I understood that you might that you might want to support checklists with the signees for applications that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "that do not Implement scheduling but still would like to assign checklist tasks to to someone for example yeah yeah okay this is santiarc um two Jim's uh question um I think actually the Trello case was a multiple checklist seems to be like yours at a little bit of a particular special case within those supporting checklists at all um I probably personally not over engineered here in that extent so I don't think we necessarily need to have a capability or something like that in the standard I think what you need to consider a little bit we are typically coming as Rodrigo from the portability side so we see this also as in from the data format as an exchange format that you can use to import export data from different systems so interoperability um between different systems is obviously something you can also later on the news with that what is actually where is initially coming from um so we sometimes might have a slightly different perspective where we think about um I would then see this as an issue for the client so if you are a client supporting checklists and suspect states there can be two checklists either you extend your product or you write a message to the user how it works I would say I mean this is then maybe a little inconvenient what would happen in our portability case typically is you know we are even a third party usually in the middle so we have said very often that we migrate from systems that support whatever infinite number of phone numbers whereas many systems only support three of them or something like that um and then we do something like you suggested we merge it together or something like that so but this is nothing that strictly I think needs to be within the spec it's it's up to the import export mechanism at stage stage okay that was to Jim um to that slide yours just one or two short comments so first of all I think it's necessary to have definitely a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "checklist type in a way because otherwise client might be tempted to add properties for tasks which are not actually for checklists tasks dedicated I'm sorry and with respect to if to reference it or if to group it within one item um probably not a strong opinion but um the problem I see with references sometimes is that in order to put it together as a client you need to have more or less a full list from the server in order to make sure you have all the items returned and find your references within it so that's a similar thing sometimes in a calendaring when you have modified events and so on in the Stream of all instances so that's sometimes a little bit tedious from a client side I'm not sure if the jmap batch API would support for instance currently to retrieve something like a task and its related items that would be an interesting question to people that know more about the nested gmf stuff here okay thank you next on this list um so yeah what we've done for similar types of things I think this came up in JS contact for the names as well if you don't know what all the different parts are there's still an array of items kind of in order and it seems to find us as what they are the the idea of again having if if you have multiple checklists in a single document having this a single list of check items with a grouping information with them allows a client that doesn't understand about them to to still see it just as one big checklist with all the items in it from all the different checklists and then if that client adds a new item it appears without a grouping because it it gets added without that grouping parent ID as part of it but they can patch an item so Mark something as checked without affecting the representation for for clients that are more capable because you're just patching that one item I think that that's a good reason"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "to use the object and ID rather than the full list is that you can then patch an individual you can say I'm checking this box but I don't want to change anything else about the representation because I don't know what everything else means that I think that's a good good design pattern to use yeah so you're referring to the right hand side right the check item as a as an more more generically to yeah this style of apis right so no no so no big preference on either Solutions right okay just to double check thank you ah there's still one all right thanks for all the uh ah Daryl Miller go ahead I snuck in one extra data point um for supporting the multiple checklist because initially I was like yeah why do why would you need that but uh GitHub issues would allow you to create multiple um checklists within a single issue which matters to the task and list of checklists thanks a lot all right thanks for all the feedback um next slide I forgot what hey it's been a while is there us oh yeah future work yeah right so I didn't yet touch the task list um still need to refine that that's the future work um also the icon the task spec brings a grouping mechanism um that might be beneficial for the jmap tasks back as well um uh yeah still wanted to to keep track how you know I didn't want to redefine it and look how it so and kind of waiting for it to to settle here um also comments are still one major thing um I want to add and yeah got them gather more feedback and gather more information on existing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "systems so still a bunch of work to do is what this slide is basically wants to say thanks cool [Music] uh what's the next that's all what's the next action that's going to happen here um yeah basically work on the future tasks I would say the future work um see how far I get I would say cool I guess we'll come back to this when we get to the Milestone section to see where you're expecting to to move on to thank you anything else on this before we move on to the next section last comments on tasks cool uh let's go back to the chair slides and see if we've got anything else I still have my um it's the the migration thing is still yep so the migration thing and there was s man sender there's is there anything new on that Alexi uh s mime sender extensions not cool all right then let's do the other thing let me share the slides so how are we on time not so good right uh we're fine okay perfect we've got so I don't need to hurry yes so last ITF we already teasered um Gemma for migration data portability um we don't have a draft just yet I just wanted to give you a short update that we're still on it we want to make a draft and here are some things that we think about including in the draft and you might have some feedback on that next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "yeah um so again from last time basically what is the motivation why are we doing this we um basically when our business or our use case is moving existing user data between systems or virtual generic API this is or this is actually what we're looking for so yeah we found J map which is really nice for that um what would we also want to do we would like to give an apis back to developers of Legacy systems which currently don't have a appropriate API for doing exactly that um yeah and also we have ran into some migration portability related problems here and there and wanted to provide some guidance in General on all those three things so what should the spec provide that we still don't have yet guidance on how to develop a jmap API in a very simple way so we want to have low requirements here we want to have propose a reduced jmap feature set like the minimum that implementers need to do and also some further extensions for migration rate problems next slide please yeah so first of all uh the the we call it the central profile um for Rapid development basically um the idea is how do you quick start gen web API development so we want to define a bare minimum for like the one time use actually so it's um it's a bit weird word or a bit weird wording so our use case sometimes people have a legacy system and they won't just want to migrate the data away once and then they want to shut down the system"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "so for this they need something really simple uh really easy to implement and we want to give some guidance on Basics to start with so people will more easily be able to dive into the jmap world and then extend upon this bare minimum um yeah so rough outline is here as I already had it last time basically only focus on key objects skip a session object in case the username equals the account uh introduce a simplified request as already teased last time and also no batching uh yeah for now as a first step basically okay next slide please yeah so again here's the simplified request from last time last time there was a suggestion from prawn to to have more like a path based approach for now I would not go that route because it would add another requirement for people to implement which would be like a routing mechanism when we just use queries and a URI it should be even simpler to implement all right next slide please yes and there's um one of the extensions that we think are also good in our in this um in this informational draft which is uh jmap debug is what we call it so basically we already have like uh documentation about about this extension on our own website so the problem we ran into we have an API software is running also the jmap API software is running that that you write yourself is running on a third-party infrastructure but the log messages"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "from this third-party infrastructure cannot be sent to a logging service that you can use yourself so um but what you can do you have a clearly client that has access to the Gmail API so how do you get access to the logs or to more information to see what's happening on the server side you can just send logs alongside the response to your Gmail client and then read those yeah sorry my Wi-Fi dropped off for some reason so I guess has just logged me yeah yeah I'm reconnecting now no worries it's pretty impressive that it drops the slides I guess that makes sense somewhere so it's basically the idea is basically to send logs to send logs alongside the Gmail response no that's so yeah so yes so there might be some other use cases so here you can see how we currently implement it it's it's like an initial start so we have actually uh log lines here um um in the response and you see files like a file a log level which log line message and so on as you can imagine it's like need to take care that this is a secure Channel with restricted access because it's logs it's sensitive information um and yeah it's it's for now it's just our own extension but we might want to include this like a more generic more a better version in in this migration draft and there might be other uses use cases for example the in the thief case uh you could also say uh I run the runtime I'm I mean the runtime errors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "that were an issue with a thief draft you could also expose them via as log lines maybe uh with a J members within the jmap response maybe yeah okay so next slide please um yes so backend info is basically to what Hunter was saying before uh so no no so we have the issue as a client supporting a lot of servers that no server software is perfect even though they say they implement the same thing they they have their own quirks and we want to be able to handle that in an automated fashion so we need to identify which server is what I don't know is a version two is it version 2.1 things like that and so basically to be able to handle also like small bugs in server-side software that people will not just not fix themselves um yeah so what what do we need to do before we can do that we need to get information what software is actually running on those servers without that info we cannot do that Next Step please so here's a proposal basically how to do that within the session object one could just after login server could just expose which back-end uh which software basically is running on it or which so which software versions it's using so for example we have PHP we have harder versions here or then we also have the sieve script type this is just a very rough first idea we want to include in this draft and I think the main question I have is does it make sense to compile everything in this initial draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "I probably as a first iteration yes I would say um if you have some feedback on that feel free if not yeah I'm also fine so thank you yeah this is my check um I've just one clarification for explanation I think houses came into place during the discussion in itf114 um so the motivation behind this or what we are doing here mainly is we consider jmap a very good choice to wrap an existing Legacy data store yeah and we see that probably other people want to use it as well yeah so we see very often customers coming to us with some dump of emails somewhere some mail dear folder something like that and um we are increasingly considering a list of Sif files stored there and we are increasingly seeing jmap as a very good option to lift those on an HTTP level for migration purposes and so that is basically the background of all these proposals here you know that for people that have a similar use case in a similar situation um that might find that also very useful um obviously like Ken already discuss this is not necessarily for public exposure of a jmap service to normal customers but for restricted usage in a very specific scenario foreign what do we want to do with this I guess is the next question create a draft cool excellent we'll we'll uh add an action point for that too I think that's the end of the jmap stuff so let's do the um the jmap Milestone work now just so that we can then move on to extra without having to come back do we have any other business pajama before we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "waiting around here I guess not here are the milestones submit gmf quotas document to iesg that is done submit document for blobs to ASG is done submit sieve document to ASG is not done and we will do that in hopefully December this year submit S9 sender extensions document to ASG Alexi uh like in March and I was very good cool that would be great um there's a bunch of interest in s mime out in the world at the moment um a lot of the big companies are planning to do stuff with encrypted email there was some discussion at morgue about that and they seem to be standardizing last time so we might see it becoming a lot more popular we've got things like dance for key distribution as well yeah uh a document defining gem access to address books we don't yet have a document for this um oh sorry Jaws bomb isn't a German context isn't that the JS contact is there Jammer jam it for contacts as well I think Neil posted it in the work in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "the mailing list okay let me see if we actually have that in there yet maybe maybe I've been paying so little attention to my own working group I don't even know what documents we have Neil so it is resolved done informational document let's kick that can down the road to along with all the other fun stuff submit Jammer calendars document to ASG we're thinking is going to be happening along with everything else July next year jam up sharing document we're going to do do you think we'll have that ready for next month Neil um maybe yeah maybe all right let's say yes jam out tasks it's currently February 2023 do we think that's realistic July as well cool all right and then we have I think some extra Milestones to add to this um adopt uh draft for migration and point something like that next month early next year probably next year because you have to ride it then we have to call for adoption that seems reasonable uh what else do we have in our list here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "tasks is a thing that's got stuff already uh identities we're going to start discussion on mailing lists I guess we can we can add a milestone for that when we decide to do something quota sharing their all things we already have milestones for calendars we have math stands for I think good then I think let me move that's everything any other Milestone things people want to add no review changes looks good yeah okay I'll just delete that one I know I can't have that review changes again foreign thank you everybody that's the end of the jam up section let's start the extra section do we want to switch chairs or just hang out where you are to both look happy all right rolling into the extra now I think we only have a couple of sets of slides for this so let's just go back and have a look at go away keep using at the chair slides and see what was on our agenda for extra all right I'm at partial is with ISJ I think there's nothing Alexi on these two documents yeah so there were some minor comments from Murray and I believe I addressed them in my copy and they replied the editorials so I think that's fine so next step is uh for Alexi to to publish"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "when the last call finishes then I'll um and there was uh no that's the other one never mind um but should be finishing kind of now I think yeah okay okay that's great cool all right um and the other thing with Civ action registry that's the one I was talking about um an hour ago when I was confused yep what did you say then I didn't copy the notes down um I just replied to Maurice you know he asked about the one column and a table uh again kind of editorial thing but we'll need to decide how to handle this um I think his comments are non-controversial cool so again YouTube publish changes cool um yeah I think I got Jenna's review uh on it with no comments so that was good yeah all right so next thing on here is message limits you again Alexi right uh let me show your slides don't want me to be in the front sure coming up so next slide so yeah um I think the history of this is basically bronze started last call in July August uh Barry had a look and said oh there is a bunch of comments that you haven't addressed I said okay partial seems to be done let me split it off and this is the other part of it yeah which still have open issues we'll need to discuss"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "um so yeah basically the idea here is um message limit is a way for mail stores that have limitations on how many messages can be handled at any given time for you know performance or workload reasons to be able to express this restriction so next slide please so one of the main thing that we still need to discuss uh is um is the issue with message limit changing requirements on copy in particular and uid copy saying that the base spec says that copy and UAG copy are Atomic so either all messages are copied or they'll fail to copy and message limit deliberately was saying that well you ask to copy 10 000 messages and the message limit is 1000 you will only copy 1000 and then kind of give a partial error so um because the requirement on copy and uid copy is the base pack basically for the client to support this client needs to opt-in and I think the mechanism for the client to obtain is to use enable yeah um I think there is quite a bit a big desire to be able to do this without client opting in but you know if we can find another way um and probably next next slide would be better next slide yep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "right so um basically uh previous version of the document was saying that the top example is what's going to happen so the copy command still succeeds and there is untagged no with message limit saying that some messages won't copied and this is what will happen now if enable message limit is issued if enable message limit is not issued then the second case should happen yes uid copy fails with no and you get message limit Response Code so um what I really struggle with and I keep kind of uh flipping back and forth on this is this extension is very useful for the servers because servers have this restriction what's the motivation for the client to opt in and I don't have a good answer to this yeah because the difficulty is that if copy is not atomic and the clients support this extension then the client can it has to do more work basically it does copy 10 000 messages get a partial response it's nice okay so I need to remove this thousand messages that got copied and keep repeating the command until it succeeds eventually obviously it's more complicated code more difficult to debug and all the rest what's the actual benefit for the server right this is uh this is barely but that was why I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "got into the queue um a client that wants to copy 10 000 messages when the message limit is a thousand is just going to do it with 10 copy commands so where does the server win on this uh you wound up making the client more complicated and the server does not ultimately have to do any less work in the process so I don't understand the benefit of this I hmm maybe the crime he should be in uh in the call will reply to this I think copying might be a kind of outlier and maybe we decide to do something else for that the uh more more useful cases might be Fetch and search absolutely that's fine that I get but but Fetch and search don't have this problem of atomicity that which is making everything more complicated so if we just say it only applies to fetch and search then I'm I think we're all good and uh primarily we do need this on uh Fetch and search but we also see problems on copy so the problem happens is clients most of the time don't understand that uh they have like a large set of messages they give this one colon star always and that ends up uh creating timeouts on the server I'm sorry I just I did not follow that just so usually the client some most of some of the clients that we have are really really I should not say that but it's a dump they end up saying okay uh oh let me copy over this uh 20 000 messages but copying over 20 000 messages takes a long time for us and that is not really good for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "clients so you want the client to have to do that using 10 copy commands they happen in smaller batch I get okay I get it I get it so can I actually if we just want to solve the copy timing out there are other mechanisms right we can send untagged response in the middle of copy and actually I know that some servers do it every within a minute to make sure that the client doesn't time out Cyrus server does that so if we just want to address this that is fixable in a different way okay sounds good I we were primarily interested in pitch and search copy was yeah we can do it uh yeah yeah so if we don't make copy um sorry yeah all right if we don't do this bit to copy and we just make them fetch that's a lot safer yes and and what I'm thinking that we might do with copy is have it sort of a checkpointable uh it might be part of this it could be a separate uh document but um where the the server the server just sends a checkpoint every thousand messages or something that says these were copied okay these were copied okay so the client doesn't have to retry it but if there's a problem and it crashes in the middle the client knows some of the messages were successfully copied so we can have that kind of thing that doesn't require the client to go keep sending command after command but lets it be recoverable okay so in order to work on something right so the proposal is not to break copy command atomicity and invent the different mechanism just to report the state partial status yeah we might think about that and so then this would only apply to fetch and search and we'd come up with a different solution for copy yeah yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "anyway let's say so I've said what I need okay yeah this is kind of I I want to clarify we are still going to allow a server to return no message limit on a copy if it's too large for the server to handle correct I know we're not going to do the client side weirdness where we can do part of the copy but the server can still say I'm not doing this because you've asked for too many copies and return this message okay I think we we are going back to the second option uit copy will fail with no message limit copying nothing correct so the atomicity uh promises not violated and it's much quicker to abort the yeah I just want to clarify that the the Response Code will still apply to copy yes I think for consistency is right it has to right and then it's just that the client would have to figure out how to get around it yeah okay that's right and and we will think about an alternative for copy that works out better for vikram's uh right and in theory we can probably take out the enable message limit because it's no needed if we go this way okay so what we are saying is we are just going to the copy will either fail or succeed copyables fail right with message limits so the uid copy no message limit so it will always fail and it will fail quickly and the client will need to to do in smaller chunks it'll be up to the client to send smaller copies which if they're using uids may be a little harder for them to figure out the range the size of the range but it shouldn't be a big deal okay no no client should be able to figure out with for the uid ranges is what we think because McLean should already have all the uids downloaded so they should know the range when they are asking for it well not necessarily the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "client may not have fetched all of it so the client knows the client knows how many message IDs there are but it doesn't know uh the uid range is necessarily most of them do but they don't have to but that's okay I mean the client will just have to be able to figure that out sure okay okay so hold on I'm just trying to make sure that we all uh recovered all the basis um basically unextended client will be unable to copy Lodge message sets right and that's annoying but it's kind of a safer Behavior anyway you okay with that yeah we are okay yeah we can make that we need to be partial it's easier for us as well and then independently we can also do the thing that for but that actually can be a separate thing anyway because it's it can be used without without message limit foreign okay yeah I suppose so well more drafts you know great okay uh well thank you all I think this was useful there are actually a few more things that I just discovered okay well we kind of covered this uh uh next slide please after that after this one yeah already uh said that yeah keep saying um well this is something strictly speaking we don't need to do this but this is kind of cute Maybe um and guess what I found this keyword uh actually such criteria in imaps"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:03",
    "text": "version three um so somebody already thought of this you know years ago next slide well there is example ah okay it might be a bit obscure but um basically at the moment uh if there is no uid before uid after what you need to do is uh let's say you want to you know find the message based on criteria and then do a page from it either so the bottom of the mailbox or to the top you can you have to do this by doing a search getting uh the uid back from the server as a number then constructing another search obviously you cannot pipeline it um with this you can actually pipeline the two searches command you say first you get the you know whatever you're searching for you find your message uh using the save option you say that dollar becomes this message that you found and then you can say well I want all the uids from the beginning of mailbox up to this one but actually because you say partial you you only say I only want 50. of these so it's kind of a you know slightly funny way of doing the range um do we want to do this yeah but do we want is the question I I probably can construct an easy example than this you know it looks clever yeah is anybody really going to implement this and care about it so that's really the question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "all right what happened um I'm writing Webmail server and actually the way we do it is sometimes I find actually the lowest message which is non-deleted non-junk I get your idea of it and then I get a page from it that would be an easier way of doing this again it's kind of cute you know can be a separate extension uh what do people think I I don't object to it if there are clients who are going to want to implement it but that's that's the question are we going to just write this up because it's cool and then no clients are going to bother with it in which case I would say we shouldn't waste our time okay how about um I'll play with this and if I find that it's useful with my you know server and the client then I will write it up but at the moment not as a part of this document so maybe it will be a separate one cool next slide oh yes the wonders of IMAP there are so many extensions there are always so many interactions between them so as it happened actually I just realized after writing this example I realized message limit and search res or IMAP 4f to have an interaction because What's um the way message limit is written at the moment if you do a search and include partial but the range is bigger than the message limit the search will succeed actually I'm missing some results you know returning um but it will return message limit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "Response Code I think basically I would like to say that the save option in this case interact with message limit by truncating the result to the message limit to make it clear again if you're only implementing message limit and not search rest then you don't care or vice versa yeah it seems to me that you save what you found so if you return to partial thing you say if there are the partial thing that you returned right and if you reject if you fail this uh the search then you don't save anything but so it's very consistent with how search was written so yeah okay next so obviously the the last thing I just talked about needs to be fixed in this pack um are people interested in implementing well I know that Yahoo has an implementation but uh I might play it play with the client side as well but it kind of would be interesting to know if do you get the client said oh you want to do the server side will have a use for this or is it again like kind of performance thing this is Ken we could certainly have been letting the Cyrus server I don't think we'd be using it as FastMail at least not in the short term unless some client comes along that's just bombarding us with huge requests so inside us is just going to be an option that you enable and then you say message yeah it'd be admin configurable option that says you know we're gonna openly limit it to a thousand or ten thousand or what have you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "yeah if you if you can't do it uh reasonably soon and provide some feedback whether you find any uh anything wrong with this pack that would be great I think I'm gonna have a fairly light load between Thanksgiving and Christmas so I can probably throw it in there just make sure you ping me and remind me okay is your boss agreeing to this yeah sure it's awesome it's boss's boss I've got eight hours on the plane back I'll make a little do it then okay sounds good to me yeah uh the action is for Alexa I guess next do another revision then wait for implementations yes so um I think I suggested to Vikram that uh we do some interrupt testing in early December yeah we already scheduled one yeah so uh and I think some other companies will have client-side implementations right if you want to announce it more widely you can but or not or later we'll figure it out okay sounds good thank you okay all right all right thank you back on chair slides again I think this we should at least briefly talk through Civ snooze and see if process imip uh uh I will address process I'm at first because I don't think there's any else any issues we've got running code in production I think at least functionally it does what we want it to do um so I'm I'm ready to go to ask a call on that unless there's different opinions in the room um as far as sifts news goes I don't see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "Pete in the room but he he had an issue with a presentation of my colleague Rick did about implementing snooze via IMAP uh in regards to having a special purpose mailbox and that is kind of what Sif snooze is doing and I asked Pete to review that document I don't know if he has and if he has I haven't heard back so I will bother him in email core about that and see where we stand that's all I have on those unless there's questions on either of those two dress all right thank you I've got an action to do the last call for process Summit uh the last thing that we had on the agenda is from me which is the jmf upgrade pass so I have created some slides for this and I'm just going to do it from here so basically the problem here is that there's millions of existing IMAP clients out there which connect to IMAP servers and people are accessing their email through them we would love them to upgrade to Jam app and we would not love them to have to read credential re-authenticate refiddle with their settings ideally also for quite a while probably people will have these clients connecting to servers that may support both IMAP and jmap and may want to add new features by making a jam up call to access the new feature without replacing their existing IMAP synchronization code which is working perfectly and beautifully and has zero bugs to that end I've been looking at what you would do here if your IMAP server had object ID support and you already knew the IDS for every single email which there might be some things that you would want to do via jmap to manipulate those messages while still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "keeping the synchronization code and that means you need some way of of saying how to access this same mailbox you can take this thing off via jmap as well um another good use case here is that IMAP doesn't have a good way to get changes across your entire set of mailboxes uh so you could use jmap just for the push connected by jam up say credit push subscription send me messages about changes this mailbox and then if you get a triggered through that saying something's changed then do an IMAP synchronization rather than having to keep an idle connection open and obviously the final case is the full upgrade if you have a server that supports both IMAP and jmap and you already have an existing IMAP connection to it you might want to change that to a jam up connection I know there are clients that already do that kind of thing with some IMAP servers where they switch from having a password to having an oauth connection and they ask the server using proprietary methods to say please convert this password into an oauth token and then I'll save that and go ahead with that um so there's a few possibilities for what you could do here you could have a a URI for jmap that has all the entropy in it already so rather than having to authenticate against it at all it's just a secret URI um you could require oauth for the IMAP and just say use the same token via jmap as well or you could have the connection return both the URI and a token and say connect this URI using this token and do jmap with that and then this question of whether you need to pop up a consent screen um and have some will you allow this client to connect using the same way that you do with any other OS connection um because it may actually appear as a connected device in in the UI of your server if it depending how it stores things so is there any confusion there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "that's kind of an unanswered question at this point for that Barry just uh what what's the benefit of basically the URI is a bearer token yeah so what's the benefit of having two Bearer tokens uh if you don't give a special URI per user um and you just send people to the regular jmap URI and give them a token instead there's some examples that's that's two right because what what is number three number three is like number two but instead of saying that you have to use oauth via IMAP with a bearer token that you're using for IMAP connection use that same token instead in number three you return a token and say use this one which may be the same token or it may be something generated specifically if you have a password connection number three is certainly the the most flexible of the token based one and number one is the easiest because you're creating a URL with a token in it um then the client needs no smarts at all just go here and and make a call all right so one possibility is to separate things out and to say um in the IMAP connection or via some other endpoint I have this username and password please convert it into an oauth token for me so you could just say get oauth or whatever in your own connection and it returns saying this username this token you have an oauth token and then I've done some examples for gmap loss if that's readable up there you could say no you could say yes here's that example number one his his uh a path with the token at number two I see a rather than just giving the the gem up URI I gave both which yeah okay that's wrong that should just be slash Jam app in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "that case and then the third one was just use your same token please so that those examples are reversed this is what I get for writing the slides five minutes beforehand some examples anyway different ways this could be done do people think this is worthwhile work um should we do a separate get the oauth token or should we return both together uh should it be inbound in IMAP or using some different endpoint these are the big questions can this is Ken I I think it's worthwhile I don't want to do too much bike shedding here I'm just wondering is there any reason to not just put the URI in the capabilities post IMAP authentication as opposed to having a separate command for the client to fetch it that it's a good question certainly if it's if you need to generate something for it um then it's an expensive thing to create if you don't know if it's wanted or not uh if someone's logging in with a username password you may be generating an oauth session for them at the point they request one of these things you don't want to do one of them for every single IMAP connection hi assistant York um yeah this is kind of interesting I mean I um and it rang a bell with me I mean I have actually a different use case for that I mean of course I see your use case here but you know you have generally the use case when you have a platform migration and people switching um for instance to another um migrated server or something like that so I wonder a little bit if there is actually a little bit of a bigger picture to this than this very specific image to jmap use case and if it's worth thinking about that in more detail do you have any more right now or is this whoa no I I need to maybe first question is so what is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "goal of this so I I guess I mean you you made up in the slides a little bit of a bigger picture but I assume it's rather smaller particular changes to the IMF protocol like the gmap or also what you suggest as an outcome of this right so the the motivation behind this is that there's a bunch of clients now who support IMAP and would like to enable some of the features that are J map only but don't want to replace their entire synchronization stack straight away so this is a step in that direction so I can add jmap support and create the new features using jmap calls without replacing their entire IMAP stack immediately yeah okay but I mean the general idea here is not so far away from what I was thinking about maybe I just need to think about it and come back it on it on a meeting list or something cool um aleximonic of a couple of random questions uh comments one is uh IMAP had the referral extension which has a URI that was like from 20 years ago yeah there is a server and there is a mailbox and if it's a server one we can just say https URI is now legal go there um so again I don't know whether it's a good idea or not but we can have a look the other thing is if we are going there you automatically generate all token when requested um I'm kind of a bit worried about this because I think it goes against their old philosophy because if there is a user interaction that is needed How uh what you're saying you always will get a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "token or it will fail and then the user might never see the nice page saying that you're connecting to this branded service and all of the rest so I'm kind of um I'm not entirely sure whether it's in spirit with oauth to be honest yeah that was my question of whether we needed to pop up the consent screen that you do this in which case in which case you are actually what you're doing is you're implementing just such a loss and you know and if you do then you will get a token anyway so why do you need to stick it there in in the first place unless you maybe need to want to put some or specific configuration information in Amma protocol because it's not always available and you want to make it workable with lots of clients and yeah which like that sounds like an argument for having the case that you have to be using an oauth via IMAP already in which case you can use the same token via jmap as well yep yep all right hunts York again migration enthusiast um hey we've got it's a very enthusiastic iotf isn't it yes um so um what Alex said just said yeah um maybe there is a slight relation to that draft presented in the I think HTTP API working group by Benny Derry Schwartz I think about or off um by command line applications yeah yeah just I don't know maybe keep in mind yeah um and to your further questions you know like what could this imply on a larger scale so for instance what I mean here I mean you look at the very specific thing now like getting from a password based to an auto space author"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "so the question would be what if for some reason another provider would change from X to Y authentication scheme so would it be worth thinking about supporting that in a in a general fashion um and for instance also in terms of like for instance a provider deciding to shut down the iPad um service or whatever else service and this is also something that might be communicated so that for instance a client then can say the user okay you need to know do that or something like that and question related to that also I think I didn't quite understand that from the slides is that something the client needs to be or you envision that the client does do this implicitly on behalf of the user or is there any um you know confirmation the user needs to do for this change I I think that's an open question still whether the the user needs to explicitly opt into this uh ideally for me a client that adds say snooze as a feature rather than trying to to back Port snooze from Jam app into IMAP they could just say if I'm going to snooze this message then I'll make a snooze call with the object ID email ID that I fetched via IMAP and say please snooze this message to the server and the server will then make the changes to mailbox and then the regular synchronization code will notice okay so that's that's how I Envision it working whether the user needs to opt into that or it's just this client now supports snooze your IMAP connection will automatically support it if the server supports it I mean the problem I see here if so it is supposed to gain adoption with clients which is certainly is a goal in a certain way yeah um I think there needs to be some clear guidance I mean on on the first or second slide you've had there was quite some different things you proposed and I'm not sure for instance if clients were willing to implement all of these like you know just a tiny bit of JM app it's a full switch to J map or at least that needs to be somehow explained to them in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "a better way but yeah of course not something for normally yeah this is this is kind of I think we're getting a little bit too far in the weeds I think the question still stands do we want to adopt this as work and I'm still in favor of doing so it sounds like there's other people in the room that feel the same way anyone want to speak against adopting I guess um okay I will carefully board this um I think there is enough interest in the room to investigate this problem it's you know the reason why me and once you're arguing is probably because we're kind of interested in addressing this sort of problem but I don't think the proposal on the table is cooked enough to be adopted is this Fair yep um oh hell with it too fussy to do the thing uh this is Barry uh I don't agree with that because I I don't think things need to be fully baked to be adopted I think that the idea is that there's enough here to get us thinking and then we can use that to develop the document there everything is still up for grabs the whole discussion about oauth might be you just don't need to do anything you already all the mechanisms already there so it's like kind of pointless sure and so then it can be removed from the document you know if we just if we decide that we want to work on this it doesn't matter I'm I'm I'm battling yeah in which case just becomes an advice document server should specify"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "jmap is found here somehow because there needs to be something that tells you where the jam up place to connect to is to get the same mailbox okay let me throw it to the phrases is there a draft no do you have enough information getting there okay so I I think we can talk yep okay and uh I think um you certainly alerted me to the interesting problem so we'll be paying attention now excellent um anyone else want to work with me on a draft too all right we will chat straight after this I believe we are down to milestones any other business for the extra working group before we do that all right uh let me share my screen John foreign I just have a question um I have a draft to revivify the expires header for mail messages and someone this morning asked does that mean we can have an expires keyword in IMAP so that people can tell it can ask for the messages that are expired or not and I said I don't know but we have a meeting and I can find out so assuming that people use this header which I think is fairly likely because there was a lot of interest in it MOG um would it be worth adding an expires flag expired flag just so you can pick the messages that have expired or not and if there's some interest I can write a draft uh she's open anyone want to comment on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:05",
    "text": "well it's complicated the problem is that thanks Murray in the Bayside map flags are Boolean things and what you're asking is not Boolean oh is it yeah we are it is yeah I mean the expired the expires header has a time stamp so you're basically asking for oh are you going to are you trying to make the server annotate the messages that beyond the expiry with a flag with a Boolean flag yeah it's basically once it's expired maybe server sent or even clients that you Market as expired and then it just stays is it what you're asking yeah I think that's what I'm asking um that will be doable yes so if you're asking for something other than the Boolean flag it depends on other extensions that some some implementations might or might not have yeah the point of the expired header is just like it's either you're past the date or you aren't it really is just a Boolean cool yep to the list excellent uh Milestones very very quickly yes I don't want to share my screen no I've not changed my mind let's roll allowed it's really quite a theft takes three or four seconds documents extra yeah come on data tracker you can do it edit milestones done done done adopt a document for air I would save"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:00",
    "text": "and submit a document with AIA are the only things that we have in our Milestone list that seems really not what's going on um submit message limit when's that going to happen Alexi um uh there isn't one February data tracker really is going particularly slowly at the moment this is this is uncomfortable it isn't like you're the only person yeah well yeah but who else is it's just the end of a session all right uh other Milestones Ken yeah I uh I think back in September I submitted a draft for uh uh returning metadata in the list responses I don't believe I received any feedback but um can we have a call for adoption soonish on that I think there was interests at 114 so that's why I wrote the draft all right we'll call for adoption for that now November there's many things called metadata here maybe I should search for like Murchison or something draft purchasing lists I'm at least metadata I've done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:00",
    "text": "all right [Music] um if anything else what else we've got that's got IMAP in the name that's that's been proposed and it's not many many things that say I'm up okay that's ridiculous uh let's have a look at our notes and see what we said we're going to do a sessional shut at some point but that's fine as long as my screen's still uh process imip we don't have a milestone for process IMAP so submit that to last call is going to be a thing where are we yeah yeah G is going to happen in November is it one word or two that's the one got you um Steve snares to OSG December January cool sneeze clearly we didn't get around to this last meeting although would it be additional milestones in there already message limit we've got a thing for already action registry partial's been submitted already migration we're back in German"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:08:00",
    "text": "now good and there's no Milestones yet for the is expired stuff or my thing because we don't have anything ready to adopt yet cool then I think we might be at the end of our Milestones list fabulous review changes cool anything else we're well over time thank you everybody have a great rest of your ITF let's go have some snacks and I'll see you all an email call No Doubt yeah all right foreign"
  }
]
