[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:30",
    "text": "so there\u0027s a moment you the first time this week that you see me no well statement what you today come you shouldn\u0027t either these take some time at some point how they look at it and also this actually gets updated kind of make it very simply so they did so with respect to I\u0027m the artist larger the ITF has a policy which is described in artist 81-79 and it\u0027s also described on the wiki page they\u0027re clean we are ttwz you it\u0027s all be changed process to help notice possible so we require the dominant authors and contributors state whether or not they\u0027re aware of any IBR elephant in question and we do this at that the two main gates in the workings of document process at least the main gaze doing work working through the ducts and individual draft and we also do it before working West is meant by the night miss G that\u0027s all so if you have administrative past and I don\u0027t be blue sheets are circulating at this point that\u0027s one of the administrators take care please sign these new sheets because they determine what size of room to get next time it\u0027s not silence can be granted smaller obviously don\u0027t have that problem this confidence way so I want to thank you no takers for this being our literary inkjet achoo and he must announce our bouquet it was a tribute to the Venice we are living for a garis drive I should be blocking rear with a check yet so I couldn\u0027t do that but it\u0027s a month with Tyrion terribleness happy thoughts you\u0027re a dream and an immediate end go to the working group document status please feel and don\u0027t know how to promote the participants the ABF oh yeah don\u0027t really stop you jump it so women "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:35",
    "text": "listen we have two sessions one today one on Thursday and I\u0027m not going to repeat this agenda but we\u0027re mainly covering me do your work for - for the porosity wg8 decision and then on the third day session some of me more good of the roles of this working through as a possible intake area or talking about potentially work in the rocky area and this is this agenda is subject to change we are going to do a few things around forever clear day that\u0027s life telling its version exactly Oh also there is a off occurring Kamala Wednesday during the morning session focusing upon and gays in a rally a lot of the discussion about data routing happening place within the party gwg point mean on discussion related to that and the agenda and so on can be found at the links shown here so you should join that mailing a list if you are not already on it so now I\u0027m moving on to the documents that are that have been part of the working group these documents already passed working group last call and we\u0027re sent to the iesg for publication the micro loop delay draft and the routing types draft and they\u0027re basically ready to be published the yang models for rip and brrp are also believe they\u0027ve made it through through the isg they had some modifications to be nmda compatible that is making them compatible with the new data store architecture so that that took a lot of you know pick some work to to modify them but thanks to the authors for being tolerant of those changes so these documents are in working group last call they they basically competed work completed working group last call we yeah and they also had changes as well but so anyways will I need to discuss it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:38",
    "text": "with yes Jeff but we\u0027ll probably be you know sending out an email soon you know acknowledging that that there\u0027s consensus to to pass those on to the IAS G for publication the you know there wasn\u0027t a lot of vocal support but I think given that this was a design team that was you know housed in in the working group and they\u0027re doing sort of thankless work and it\u0027s it\u0027s part of a you know general project for for the IETF to publish yang models for IETF technology I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a whole lot of debate over whether or not there\u0027s consensus to adopt them and no one objected so I think we\u0027re we\u0027re docking them or not dotting them but passing them on to iesg for publication there are a couple of documents that are existing working group documents the micro loop problem statement document BGP pic and two other documents that sort of I grouped together the desk source routing document and the enterprise PA multihoming document there was discussion after Prague related to kind of bringing these into alignment there\u0027s some changes in the PA multihoming document to to clarify and actually make make the two descriptions of the routing agree and I think Jen\u0027s going to talk about that in more detail other working group documents the multihomed prefix LF a document Jeff and I are both co-authors of that document so we will not be conducting the working group last call for that but engine jus will be in the case of the RTG WG back-off algorithm I\u0027m a co-author of that so Jeff will be conducting that one he\u0027ll be doing it soon I believe not that I\u0027m pressuring you or anything but that was what you told me before and there was a document that has started I think work started on it two years ago or more and it actually reached a pretty good state pretty quickly the encapsulation design team recommendation document and it expired but it\u0027s probably still a good thing to get it published the last status was that it needed more details on MPLS encapsulation I had a conversation with Stuart Bryant yesterday and he should be contributing to that and getting that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:38",
    "text": "kind of wrapped up recently adopted working group document is the routing timer parameter sync document as well so that\u0027s that\u0027s all I have for the review of the current status of documents if you have any questions we\u0027d be happy to take them otherwise Greg mirskiy is up first so Greg should come up here and if anyone has any questions we can take them while we do the transition it\u0027d have been some unclarity with regards to IPR so if he could provide short history what happened last six months yes so this is update on that proposal that was presented I think like two or three meetings back I don\u0027t see the prompt we don\u0027t see anything what one it\u0027s working that i guess i\u0027m unity so do we have a navy person accessible because we we\u0027ve just had a bit of a navy problem here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:55",
    "text": "that\u0027s a problem I can just talk without video because it\u0027s very very straightforward okay so we have some back ok anyways at any rate so this work was presented and it\u0027s - proposed use of VFD in the multi point networks often referred as point to multi-point environment are too fast detection of master there are P router failure and faster switchover in there are P yes vrrpv3 allows for sub second intervals but it seems to be redundant and unnecessary if we have BFD that can do and provide the failure detection and at the same time so the scenario how and what is being monitored in vrrp its nicely with the BFD multi-point networks specification which is unidirectional because its uses demand mode and that hits that back up where appear router monitors the well-being of the master so again it\u0027s a unidirectional environment in the original proposal we propose to use just out of box BFD with excellent we have it back so we propose to use specification VFD for multi point networks and there was a IP are associated with it and there was some concern so offers went back and thought of okay how we can improve and at the same time create differentiator with existing IPR and so here is the proposal so that we can use ERP control messages to advertise be if the discriminator of the master because unlike in point-to-point BFD where there is a three-way handshake to exchange discriminators between peers in multi-point BFD there is no handshake because its uses demand mode from the beginning so thus the remote peer are the tail of point-to-multipoint if this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:55",
    "text": "session has to do the multiplexing not on your discriminator in a control packet which is locally unique for their receiver but on remote my discriminator source of the message and source a address of the message so by providing information in the RP control message we enable auto discovery of existing BFD environment so if some some backup router comes later it doesn\u0027t have to be explicitly provisioned either through configuration or a control plane so there are P control message does that for us automatically and that introduction so that change we believe offers believe that creates sufficient divergence from existing IP R so then there is a way of implementing this without really discussing the IP r so in red that you see that our proposal to add to extend VRP control message by adding optional master discriminator information that will be received by the backup router and so that can help to do the multiplexing and that includes that included in each and every control message that send by the master so at any time we have a new backup it can join and start monitoring the well-being of the master almost instantaneously that text explains the mechanics and read is what\u0027s been introduced in the current version so that\u0027s an update next steps we appreciate your reviews comments questions suggestions and we just wonder if working group will consider adoption because now we\u0027re not really changing anything in BFD and all the change is in the air RP protocol so probably the RP protocol now belongs in RTG VG or if it\u0027s not the case then appreciate your suggestion where to anchor this work that\u0027s oh yeah so it would be good to get some more clarification on the IPR issue and and yeah I I was yes the the maybe we should just discuss it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:55",
    "text": "afterwards I make no no okay I PR is again III cannot give a authoritative opinion it\u0027s my personal opinion that with this change there is a sufficient way of implementing this solution without affecting existing IPR okay I suppose we should look at the guidelines then if that removes the need to disclose it for the to do a disclosure because I I\u0027m not positive well those rules but I don\u0027t think so so but we need to look at whether or not that yeah of course I don\u0027t need to disclose it I think I think you know one\u0027s always very careful when discussing IPR but I think the rules are weak the working group can take that into consideration but it still needs to be disclosed so that the working group again okay decide whether or not the the workaround is acceptable okay to best of my knowledge the original disclosure was done timely and promptly and I can try to reach to their IPR holder to do some consideration but I don\u0027t think that they are capable of withdrawing their IPR with it to the latest version so so I think the IPR was disclosed for draft nitish right no originally okay so historically yes thank you for pointing we had this draft and there was another draft with a different proposal to use a DVD point-to-point then we merged some concerns and questions about IPR I was raised and this proposal was moved from the current version of draft Nitesh right but the the IPR disclosure that occurred was for draft niches not from Roth murski draft mirskiy for this yes so it\u0027s still it should be there okay we will take this offline Oh calm in terms of putting it up for working group adoption we should get this ironed out before we before we do that okay very good thank you thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:58",
    "text": "morning everyone my name is uncle the way I work with VMware and today I\u0027m going to talk about using BFD to achieve active standby redundancy when there are multiple set of services running you know some set of services are in reverte mode while some set of services could be in non-relative node mode so let\u0027s see what that means you know let\u0027s straight jump into the use case so as you can see here there\u0027s a you know the diagram is showing three nodes over there each node is having a PFD session with the other node and there are the control and the Network Controller is provisioning a set of services these are l2 l3 or a 12-7 services and you know again some services could be in riverton mode which means that if the primary assigned primary the preferred node if that is up then that is going to serve as the active well some services could be in a non-relative mode which means that you know whenever lower happens after that if if the previous active comes back up it\u0027s it\u0027s not going to claim the active station as status so essentially what we are trying to do is that if a certain node when it goes down the other node which is taking over the non revert of service it needs to indicate the the node that it went down that you know I was alive and I have taken over the non revert of services so that that\u0027s a that\u0027s sort of the requirement there and you know some of the details regarding how we can do this is in the next slide so essentially what we are proposing is the you know this two-step solution that you\u0027re proposing one has to simply use a dye code which is used by the node you know that went up for example in this diagram if no.2 went down the node one is going to set the dye code to set to say i outlived you and there is going to set that dye code in the Beauty session between node 1 and node 2 so no two when it comes back it\u0027s going to know that okay note one has taken over me so I should not claim for the non-derivative services the node 1 will be acting as the active so that\u0027s part one of the solution the part two is if you have you know a bunch of services where some are non-relative and some are revolted you probably want to do granular level failover which means that you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "certain services or node one could be active which are non derivative but certain services on node two could be active which are you know non reverter so how do we do that is is is basically the controller it\u0027s going to set is going to create a unique bitmap which in which every bit is identifying a unique service and the same bitmap is pushed to all the nodes so the node that is setting the die code is all can also use a bitmap and it will set those bit positions which will identify the services that are running is active on that node so by doing this you can you can achieve you know the active you can you can tell the peer node that which set of services are active on me so essentially that\u0027s you know that\u0027s that\u0027s the in two step solution essentially and you know next is you know we are seeking comments on you know you know any any suggestions or you know any comments that you may have in this regard general comment I think would have been really usable if you would have included more details about solution in the presentation so the services yeah so there\u0027s that but it\u0027s difficult to do unless you have read the draft is difficult to derive how this really work just for next time oh oh sure second command you definitely need to include be the working group and perhaps they\u0027re the right place to do this work sure sure thank you all right thank you now we have Jen link over moaning so it\u0027s a quick update on enterprise multi-home and graph just a quick refresh in case you have forgotten what\u0027s all about we trying to solve problem of enterprises network using p address space from multiple providers without using this quadruple technology called not and the main problem is there how to send a packet to the write a plane because providers might lose a good think and implement BCP search aid so there are two parts of it is how to send packet to the right uplink which is perfectly in scope for routing group and the solution is to use source address "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:02",
    "text": "dependent routing when next hope is chosen based not on just on the destination as in traditional and inference but also based on the source address and then there is a second part of solution which is more related to ID v6 Astrakhan host and stateless out the configuration which I\u0027m not going to talk about because there is no changes there so the main change that should only change my attends 0 1 version is that there were trumpeter brought to attentions effect that that if we have two routers which one one of them is implementing source address dependent radical and another one is using destination source routing then we might see routing loops in some cases and it\u0027s related to the fact how as ad our router populates forwarding tables so let\u0027s look at the example ecology let\u0027s say we have router B which implements as idea and entrance to scoped forwarding tables and one on scope forwarding tables for everything and let\u0027s say it advertised to scoped prefixes to router a and received her and called default from router a so far so good then the old text it was the last step of how as ad our router populates forwarding table basically basically what we do we take prefixes from unscoped table and if those prefixes do not exist in scoped forwarding table we put them there so basically my those tables consistent so for example in the above-mentioned scenario let\u0027s say router B has to scoped forwarding tables 1 scoped for blue prefix 1 for green and please note that in this case those prefixes actually overlap blue prefix is more specific to red one it\u0027s exactly scenario when we can see some interesting side effects then blue routing table will have one route scope 2 blue prefix red one also has one route and then we populate both forwarding tables with default which is coming from unscoped forwarding table because we do not have default initially in those called forwarding tables it all looks good so far but then what\u0027s happening because blue and red prefix a because blue prefix is actually more specific relation to red one but blue forwarding table doesn\u0027t have any a next hope for less specific prefix if router a receives a packet which is has a destination in the blue prefix and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "source is also in scope of the blue forwarding table it obviously will send it to router be ok but then when router B receives a packet it looks in the scope and scope is and based on the packet source it looks in the blue forwarding table but blue forwarding table has no route for the destination so it will use default and send it back instead of using any routes from red table which is will be reasonable thing to do so we get a routing group here so the proposed solution is we can we make the the last step of populating scoped forwarding tables more generic because basically unscoped forwarding tables table could be considered as a scope for 0/0 for any are out so what we do so instead of just populating scoped forwarding tables from one scope the kind of going from less specific prefix to more specific and populate tables one after another so the main change would be first we look in the ants code forwarding table and pop in adding default to read table but then we also look in the raped read forwarding table and find there is a entry 4/32 which do not exist in blue table so we populate blue table there and now we have a forwarding country in blue table which allow us to route packets choose a read destination and in this scenario forwarding route and groups do not exist anymore so we have consistent behavior between serve destination as a dr so it\u0027s a main change but i think it\u0027s quite important because it\u0027s changed the way we populate forwarding tables so questions comments if you Larssen need to solicit comments in six up and other working groups or the change oh no I think this is purely related to router behavior in terms of populate the forwarding table so I would expect more comments comments coming from routing group right because we do not change anything which is actually its call for v6 hops well indeed all comments are welcome but I expect more people who might be interested a and the Z\u0027s change I in this room and just smile in place so please do so please ask for comments it\u0027s a good diplomat good shape and there\u0027s no reason for it to sit much longer in the key yes or I posted so in the my linked list like on 29th of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:02",
    "text": "October but yeah probably people field people filter emails too aggressively so any comments appreciate it and like we can discuss it in the in London thank you hello everyone this is shooting who from China Mobile today I want to introduce something about the sales operation DMZ protocol this topic is relative to true news laughs why if the co SP requirements and that another is the serious operation BMG deployment okay and first at first there are some basic principles and backgrounds need to be introduced like SWAT is serious operation BMG and the why we needed a serious operation BMG well as you know with rapid development of new services such as okay LT the number of broadband service subscribers increased by ten times it also causes a lot of challenges for traditional BMG the most serious issues we confront as our even resource huge and complex management ensuring the left figure the traditional BMG acts as a gateway for user access authentication and IP networks Larry edge it tightly coupled the control play with the you\u0027ll play a sing since lack of the overload we love resources and the users information the traditional BMG may cause our even resource usage especially cause the even session or IP address distribution and are even physical patrons usage "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "problem is the traditional bng is difficult to manage and maintain due to the last number of traditional Benji\u0027s we must config each device one by one at a time during during deploying a global service policy obviously it brings difficult management and maintenance and it also means that any new earth service has to heavily rely on the multiple PNG devices which should be updated or synchronized this wrath in long service TDM too solve these problems we set up we propose the serial separation BMG protocol architecture and protocol mmm briefly the sale separation P\u0026G is made up of a centralized cloud-based the city and set of a set of high performance distributed ups the city it\u0027s the user control and management component weights supposed to manage UPI\u0027s resources such as you lunches and IP addresses the since their centralized the control a can provide the capability of unified managing the UK\u0027s resources it has the overview of the sauces on the care distribute the resources as required obviously it can significantly improve network resource utilization and this the centralized the control/play can provide the unified management interface to the outside system such as the radio server the DHCP server the EMS and center it can simplify the management and because the control play and the user play can extended separately according to different situations it can also help to sort in a time to market ok what we want to do unite have the architecture of sales operation BMG "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:04",
    "text": "already got accepted by BBFS WT 3 a 4 and the ITF were also proposed a set of drafts to standardize the sales separation PMG interfaces there are three interfaces between the city and yupi that it\u0027s the service interface the control interface and a management interface the servicing surface is used to pass the pppoe IPO a dollop package between the city and yupi the management interface is used in sending static configurations from city to UV and the control in her face it\u0027s used for deliver user forwarding entries from city to UT and the report and the reporting the users that informations from yupi to CP and we have some ideas about the service interface and management interface and way how propose the two drafts about them why it\u0027s in the own way all three and another is in the RTG WG we how we also have a document to introduce the information model for the control interface our there isn\u0027t a standard protocol to introduce the attributes which described in the information model document to fill this void we set up a July team cui speedy write him to prepare the CSP protocol as so far the Tier I team includes China Mobile telefónica de far way ZTE under three as we see at Central our work Messrs okay we work together and we\u0027ll meet area to mix to discuss and did I the still SP protocol and the progress will be published in the idea of mailing list on time and the important issue can be proposed in the mailing list for discussion finally a data page will be used to solicit more comments and input the delighting and the relative works "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "are open and welcomed more people who are interested in this topic to draw us to contribute to your idea and your talent welcome currently our delighting has presented some early research about the requirements of CSP the SIL estilo garments include words in negotiation have a be little port city primary backup car ability the city\u0027s core ability to stand the unit\u0027s information table to you peace and you end notification you liability secure communication these two pages briefly Illustrated if you have interesting please review the document and the provide your important feedback and the police reveal our another draft that is the CSP deployment and any suggestions questions comments and inputs are all welcome at last welcome a new member to us thank you thank you very much any questions could you please go to slide 5 so the service interface user speaks on GP encapsulation and via tree had long long discussion about encapsulation I believe Geneva has been chosen as the primary one do you see do you see this could work with Geneva instead or if their particular reason to use leaks on GP I think the interfaces between the city and the UTS are very complex so we set up satellite him to solve this problem and other standard has a different architecture or architecture and other different different architecture from our Salafi faithful so do you expect reconciliation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:06",
    "text": "some point in time ideally would like to come up with similar architecture that could address all the issues hopefully take it offline we could take it offline if you wish the burka Liu ending your turn so before they start it\u0027s not always obvious how to use young models to form a service so as chairs of routing working group we think it\u0027s really important to help you to understand how to build a service so it\u0027s not only an abstract service or device model how do you put this together how do you make them work from ourselves BSS level up to working device so this presentation is going to talk about it we\u0027ll be conducting more research and more presentations on usability of data modeling not on the data model themselves but how to do well while the slides are coming up good morning I\u0027m actually presenting this okay can you hear me great can\u0027t move too far here that\u0027s I\u0027m actually presenting for AC he his plane was delayed so he won\u0027t be here until this evening plan was for him to present and then Dan to follow what I\u0027m presenting here is first an update and then we\u0027re going to go a little bit into usage of the LNT model and in the past we focused on ni the work that I\u0027m presenting is of the routing area yang architecture design team I think I got the right name yeah good thanks for use and we have a whole slew of people on the design team the ones in bold are the ones that are sort of active now but different people have been active over a different time where we are is we\u0027ve done work in different areas I\u0027m going to talk about each of these before we go into the example one of the important things to note here is that last bullet we think we\u0027ve done that the heavy lifting that we were chartered to do and so we are targeting sort of shutting down shutting ourselves down with the 80s concurrence before the next meeting if you think there\u0027s a piece of work that we really should be paying attention to bring it up on the list like the working group list so that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:06",
    "text": "we can figure out whether we do it or it\u0027s just done in the working group so first document we have which one is this okay so we as I mentioned we have a bunch of documents one of the important things that we wanted to accomplish was to have a common set of types so that we didn\u0027t each in each of our models redefine the same things that work has progressed well it\u0027s now in the editor queue and I don\u0027t have much more to say on that as I said these are AC slides I\u0027m going over here the next one that we\u0027re in good shape on is the logical network elements this document is dependent on some work that\u0027s been going on in that mod that\u0027s also gone through last call that scheme amount and the version that we\u0027ve most recently published really had some minimal changes after last call we noted that the Shepherd asked for a change oh we identified one change there was just something missing it was in the body but not in the appendix so we\u0027re going to copy it into the body we\u0027ve we made that change on github if you look watch what we\u0027re doing on github the other change it that\u0027s been requested is to be nmda to show an nnm be a compliant model for LNA one of the things that we intentionally wanted to make sure that we supported was not an NMDA implementations why do we care about that there\u0027s been so much talk about off state solutions and NMDA yeah that\u0027s important but we also have things that are being built today in the field that don\u0027t have all this work for NMDA so we want it to work both for a non NMDA and NMDA so we can add another example if the Shepherd wants and so we have both an NMDA and non-nba but I think it\u0027s important that we not lose the not NMDA one I\u0027ll look to the shepherd who\u0027s sitting right there do you want both the you think actually the whole work do we want both examples or just the non @mb a loaded question to see if people are paying attention the example young of Hyundai right now only have the man and I\u0027m da version so maybe if you can add the and I\u0027m Thea version that will be even better how expected answer we\u0027re gonna have we should have both versions nmda and non MBA examples will do that and once that\u0027s done we think we\u0027ll be ready to for the Shepherd to submit for publication request so that was elleny we also have the anti document turns out it\u0027s basically in the same state everything that I just said for lne applies also for and I so what else do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:06",
    "text": "we have going on in terms of documents we are I\u0027m gonna actually take the second one first early on we were looking at how to represent a whole device that\u0027s a routing device in yang you have a bunch of what\u0027s called top-level modules so there\u0027s no relationship between these managed objects basically we thought it would be good to try to show a relationship of those on something that you\u0027d see on a routing and we got a bit of pushback about trying to come up a formal organization and in the end I think we the design team all agree that that pushback was actually valid but what it meant is is that we took a document that we thought was gonna be really important said hey this is just informational and it\u0027s not it\u0027s not clear how important this construct is to be able to to identify routing protocols as routing protocols control playing other control playing protocols is control plane management protocols as management protocols and we sort of let that draft sit around because we didn\u0027t have a good mechanism to represent it Chris came up with the idea we lost Chris came up the idea is hey we just use like hashtags to to model the different to represent the function of the different modules and more than that we should give the user of control of it so while we may define what we think the sort of attribute of a model is and a vendor may think something else it\u0027s actually the user and Chris represents a user user provider these are should have control and he came up with the hashtag and that\u0027s the first graph that\u0027s listed here so in order to support sort of this device organization we now have its new mechanism that\u0027s running through the process in that mod and hashtags so we have that first document it\u0027s going through the process we\u0027re now back to the device model what do we do with this if hashtag gets accepted as a working group document in that pod and it progresses we think we could do something with it but we also think this is just informational not so important right now we\u0027re just letting it sit there see what develops with tags if tags go through we get accepted they progress we\u0027ll revisit the device model by the way you don\u0027t have to know the answer before the next meeting the authors can still work on it even if the design teams not around one of the topics that we spent a lot of time on but didn\u0027t author any documents on was an MBA so we\u0027ve been tracking those treating making sure that the work that\u0027s going on there will line up with with the area that\u0027s happened we\u0027re still watching what\u0027s going on making sure now the protocol document support that but more importantly we\u0027re also looking at the documents produced in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:07",
    "text": "area and making sure that the art those RFC\u0027s line up well well it turns out we really only have one routing config and also turns out it wasn\u0027t produced by this this working group it was produced in another working group but we still have the right people in the room who care about this we so we made sure that that work was taking place of updating that and we have it RFC 8022 bists now in the net mod working group AC is a co-author on that youko exams also and there was some nice discussion on how we handle yang revisions turns out yang doing versions and obsoleting old versions is something that\u0027s still we haven\u0027t really figured out as an organization and that\u0027s gonna be a hot topic in that Mott we do think that that\u0027s something that this group should pay a little attention to so the other documents that we\u0027ve been involved with and have really been outgrowth of the design teamwork but haven\u0027t been driven formally by the design team or include scheme amount we know that\u0027s the new mechanism to allow yang models to mount another yang models so a yang model excuse me so that if you have a module that needs to repeat the same information from another module you don\u0027t have to right now just it or really list the whole thing you can just say go use it import it right here we also recognize that there was some differences in how we represent trees how we document yang models so we spent a little time there to clean that up and that is now a document and that not on that and what else is left the big thing that we have from the original list when we were being chartered when we were talking about what problems we thought were important to solve for the area the only one that we really have left is the revision problem and in particular in yang you have a way of updating them a yang module but only when it is completely backward compatible so if you have a module you want to make changes to it the only changes you\u0027re allowed to make while keeping the name the same is to add things to it you can\u0027t go remove you can obsolete it you can mark it as no longer used but you really can\u0027t remove it it\u0027s there the sort of guidance on you know really don\u0027t need to implement or you should not implement but it\u0027s not gone and if you want to make something that\u0027s not an incredible change you have to change the name of the module but then we have all this great tooling support but we don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:08",
    "text": "have the tooling support to do the equivalent of what we have in our documents of a baton obsolete we had that we probably would be done you know that\u0027s confusing statement we\u0027ll talk about it in that lot but that was the lack of that ability is the one problem that we had talked about during the formation of the design that is not yet solved we think that that is now come to the as a top issue in that mod that it\u0027s going to be work they\u0027re that they\u0027re the right people to solve it as long as there\u0027s a solution to it will be good so again something that the design team doesn\u0027t really have to spend a lot of time on other than just make sure it\u0027s going along well is that enough to keep the design from around probably not it is worthwhile to note that this issues out there and do we as an area want to have a position that may be different than what comes up organically in the in ops area working group we\u0027re throwing it out there but to some degree hoping the answer is no we don\u0027t need to do something formal here we can let that we can let that just run the normal process in that mod we\u0027ve seen in the past that that doesn\u0027t always give us the right result and sometimes we have to push a little bit to get different functionality and scheme amounts an example that uh sue Harris in this case IDR chair BGP model as a non NDMA provides data store model and then a previous one from open config so I\u0027m giving a little trouble hearing you just I\u0027m sorry it am I not swallowing the mic far enough okay um so here\u0027s IDR co-chair in this case so I\u0027m facing some of the questions of model revisions in IDR with the base BGP model did you have any could you just review the current thinking from net mod and provide a little insight on that thank you sure so when do you stay there cuz I\u0027m gonna probably end up asking a question the the current guidance is was first documented in the yang one auto specification it\u0027s been it\u0027s repeated I don\u0027t think with any really substantive changes in yang 1.1 so if you want to look at what the hell what the guidance is about module updates that\u0027s the right place to go look and basically what it says is if you make a change that is non backward compatible you have to change the module name so you have to basically say it\u0027s a whole new module that\u0027s what it currently says oh and by the way it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:08",
    "text": "identifies exactly what an on a non backward compatible change will be so it it helps you out to understand what it means the that\u0027s what it says the problem people are running into is that let\u0027s say I do routing config - - how do I know that routing - config - - replaces routing config - the original one just routing fake eighty to RFC eighty twenty two version in in our documents we have a document header which is provide some metadata that says it obsoletes the old one so we have that that\u0027s good but yeh models are designed to be consumed by computers not by people so the document header that\u0027s in an RFC doesn\u0027t do a whole lot so we need something there there\u0027s a couple of different versions there a couple different approaches to solving this problem that are being discussed I\u0027m more focused on here\u0027s the problem what the actual solution is that\u0027s something that\u0027s going to be worked through the community so there\u0027s a proposal out there to use revision numbering sort of what you would see in software there was another one on the list talking about just mapping what we did on the the headers with updates and replaces that\u0027s the the actual solution I don\u0027t know what that\u0027s going to be requirement is we need something that supports a tool based approach supports tooling and supports computers figuring it out rather than people to the now in terms of IDR if you\u0027re talking about versions of drafts that\u0027s not really envisioned in this part of compatibility between versions of interim draft internet drafts that\u0027s not really part of this problem space because that\u0027s viewed as sort of those are working things and you make it not make a non compatible change that\u0027s okay because that was just a work in progress it wasn\u0027t a final thing yeah I\u0027m not considering the drafts I\u0027m considering excuse me I\u0027m not considering the draft case I am considering the implementation case so thank you oh yeah Atlas so one of the pieces which relates to how do we which is correlated to but not the same as how do we handle yank module revisions is how do we as the routing area continue to update and extend yang modules and what that management process looks like and I don\u0027t think that piece has been really nailed down yet we probably should be talking about it at breakfast on Wednesday a little bit because that might come and inform some thoughts on what the module revision process if there\u0027s any impact there okay what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:08",
    "text": "breakfast on Wednesday hey batting group chairs right sorry though we have other topics scheduled there so it won\u0027t take the whole time thanks 101 class so for the people who are interested Lu as a chair in nad mod has got like maybe 35 minutes on this topic in that mode so if you are interested and if you want to get to a resolution that not on Thursday is the right place then bogdanovich so from be it will be very good if the routing working group to specify the use cases for what modeling should be done instead of working on the actual models work work on the use cases and the workflows that have to be done because then we can come much faster to an agreement what has to what has to be implemented and then the implementation you know can be done in a much more rapid way burn workers are fine but it\u0027s not a routing specific issue this is like a yang slash industry issue so I I think so what I interpret from Dion is that we as a group have to make sure we inform net mod of our requirements for handling revisions so the fact that we\u0027re thinking about having a model that our module that it replaces another one we should handle that we have suze case we should handle that the mechanisms by which it is handled I don\u0027t think belong in this working group I think belongs over a net mod I think that\u0027s what Dan was saying I hope that\u0027s consistent been well with you is from your ad perspective I think it is but I\u0027m wondering okay let\u0027s assume there is like a different area dealing with yang modules and hopefully we would have the same set of requirements otherwise there is something which is broken somewhere yeah I agree but I\u0027m not sure that it\u0027s the scope of this working group to worry about the other areas requirements so I feel that I\u0027ve gone through most of these updates already there\u0027s a couple of important points though at the bottom of the slide at the last meeting we had talked about trying to make sure that the users of our ni model were gonna be aligned and actually use the construct that we\u0027ve come up with in this working group so the first user we\u0027ve looked at was in best the l3 VPN yang model we worked with them at the last meeting and got good alignment on how that would be handled and we talked about a little bit in this working group and more inside "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:09",
    "text": "best what didn\u0027t happen was the end and the l3 VPN model has been published and is well aligned with the NI model and it in fact augments it as we in exactly as we envisioned so that\u0027s great what didn\u0027t happen is we that we didn\u0027t do a similar process for the l2 VPN Andy VPN documents and again these are documents and bests so we wanted to make sure to take the opportunity this meeting to get that alignment turns out those authors didn\u0027t travel here so instead we met last week in just the informal conference call with some of the authors it\u0027s not all of them just some of them to get the ball rolling and we feel we\u0027ve made good progress there\u0027s still some confusion on how to use this what we\u0027ve defined like what is goes inside and I type and what goes inside the root we now and we have some slides later if we end up having time that we can go through that again just to help get people to understand it so I again we talked through these details there wasn\u0027t a similar it this the LNT doesn\u0027t have similar impact on best so we didn\u0027t have a parallel conversation tags I gave you pretty much gave this update already chris is going to be presenting it in net mod if you\u0027re interested in it come there read the draft so what are we doing next so as a design team well the question is what do we do with revisions we\u0027ve talked through that at most we\u0027ll try to document some requirements I\u0027m not sure there\u0027s anything unique to the area as benoit just said although it would be good to talk with su and understand if ID r\u0027s requirements are a little different than what\u0027s already being talked about in that mod that is we\u0027ll try to coordinate how that those requirements are brought in the next thing we really are focused on disbanding as a formal group but that doesn\u0027t mean the work stops we still have to make sure that the documents that we authored contributed to our tracking that those have progressed through the process and get published as RFC s but we can do that as individual authors you\u0027ll see there\u0027s a good list there so I think we\u0027ve been busy so the next that that\u0027s the design team update we\u0027re now going to go into what that area that the chairs asked for is that provide a little more background on how we\u0027re actually using things so Dan is going to go through an example of an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:09",
    "text": "early implementation of villanies and just as a refresher to people what\u0027s in lne logic it\u0027s a logical network element it\u0027s a way of partitioning a system into partitioning its resources to be used by multiple logical systems logical routers VMs whatever you want to call it and if v\u0027s but it\u0027s a way of managing what essentially are multiple independent routers living on the same physical device now one of the interesting things is we actually made sure that the model was recursive so you can have some bare metal you partition it up put a bunch of routers on it and then those routers can position themselves up as many times as they want into logical routers that\u0027s the ll any part that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to go through just as it for context and I that\u0027s all about births and BS is what\u0027s the big what\u0027s a big difference there is sort of the management structure with a virtual router logical system you always do full partitioning with a ver fin v si that\u0027s always managed within a single context Dan you can start coming up wherever you are before you\u0027re still in the room so the module tree for L\u0026I is what you see here we do have the ability to do sort of top-down management in those cases where our system supports that and that\u0027s what the I think we have a pointer here that\u0027s what the root is all about yell any root but that\u0027s only Matt and that\u0027s only accessible when managed equals true if you were building let\u0027s say NFV style routers where they\u0027re running in VMs you would just set it to false because it wouldn\u0027t be able to manage it from the top and that\u0027s going to be a pretty common use case we also have some air events to deal with late binding problems I\u0027m going to turn over to Dan talked about his implementation pay attention it\u0027s not theoretical work it\u0027s real implementation that\u0027s working hi Dan Bogdanovich so this is a work that Raymond and I did and we\u0027ll share some of the experiences and some of the problems you might be facing if you try to implement this so this the example we are covering essentially where you have an L any spanning on two physical devices as well when you are doing and Elleni on another physical device the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:12",
    "text": "some of the problems that you will run into that will be you know with the interface naming especially when you are trying to do it over to physical devices and as well how you will do the IP management addresses so when we decided how to add interfaces to an elleny we when implemented we did it three standard times and we were using groupings in order to essentially be able to add interfaces to the felonies and in that case the physical device manager cannot manage the interfaces once they are assigned to an elleny they cannot be managed outside of the you know outside of the scope of the potential in this case is the virtual router so we an interface naming when when you\u0027re defining that you have to come up with a pretty good schema how you want to name them because you can have an interface on a device one and an interface on the device do they have exactly the same name and the question is now how will you name those interfaces when there will be you know essentially bound to your virtual rather one and virtual rather two which are the two instances of an Elleni and essentially you have you know you can have now two ways in the schema that you just use the device the physical device name with interface name and for that one so we had we were thinking bit between both options but we went which with enough that doesn\u0027t requires changes in Yanks so in this case it is pretty easy to find out which physical interface is on which physical device but you know the whole point here is that you also have to figure out how you can take you know the multiple leaf wraps in order to get you know to the new value because it\u0027s a whole panniers but how can they you know combine the physical device ID with the ports on the other part when you are you know having a essentially one Elleni across multiple physical elements there is a question if you want to have capabilities like an aggregated Ethernet interface and the questions are rising when you have different capabilities of a data point so how do you want to support the that when your capabilities and the resources of a data plane are not heterogeneous or you will just go essentially with the same types of Asics then you can easily track the capabilities and resources so this is something that you have to think upfront how you want to do that because it is not just enough to track the capabilities because the capabilities and resources if you\u0027re not tracking the resources while tracking the capabilities you can come up into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:12",
    "text": "resource management issues and that you will not be able to create some of the services across multiple Hardware units and the also also one of the other issues is how you will create out-of-band IP management network management of the a Landy\u0027s so the you might have on the same device running multiple SNMP demons so how will you make sure that all of them can you know can use the same SNMP port in and that you will be able to differentiate and make sure that is a correct binding there are a couple of ways you know how you can do that what we decided was that people have essentially an IP pool manager and that IP pool manager be essentially using the actual assigning the IP addresses during the orchestration time to you know to each Alan II and then it would be essentially providing the outside connectivity to the NMS system to the Ella nice there we were thinking maybe you know dynamic that might do the work as well but for some reason you know we have decided to go with the setting up here is a specified pool of addresses with you have to know how many you know Ella needs you have to address upfront and then essentially take it from there from a performance and the scaling point of view this works pretty well for us so we you know had a pretty good experience with this one how we did it essentially is you know that we had up in essentially a public IP pools and we were essentially saying how many nodes there is one IP per node and then which services are you mapping to that and then which physic and then which ports are in the map to those services essentially that would be it so these are slides from the previous ones but actually I\u0027m curious from the operators how many of you are thinking about having essentially actually how many of you are using logical systems or logical routers on your existing physical devices today few hands and are you using what so next time would be you know and and for the verse and then I would be really curious to hear what is the main use case for your logical you know for your logical rather you know logical system "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:12",
    "text": "Rick Taylor I\u0027ll give you an answer at the mic to why we\u0027re using Ellen YZ and it\u0027s to reduce complexity the hardware is getting increasingly complex and it means that the end users who were actually having to use this kit it becomes much simpler to talk about logical constructions and then they don\u0027t really care about which model they bought and how many internal back planes and stuff it\u0027s it\u0027s in there so it\u0027s it\u0027s really ease of use we found some real advantage to going down the LME model Stephan caste from a range I mostly agree with what has been said here we are not using logical system now because we don\u0027t have the exact separation that we want so especially on some specific cultures that are supporting logical system today it\u0027s we are only separating the routing path but not the management and all the other processes but we are looking for this kind of full separation including all the processes of within a router so we are doing some testing on new features today because yes we want to reduce the complexity of our routers because running a lot of services and VPN layer 2 VPN layer 3 VPN on the same device is really complex today and it\u0027s not really maintainable over time so we need to split so it\u0027s clearly interesting it\u0027s not doable now it may be doable in future so it seems like for in your case it simplifies the config management you know among different services it\u0027s not only a question of configuration management it\u0027s just a question and when you have a router one engine but tons of features it does not work because there is a lot of bugs and one bug and one particular service will prevent you to install a version how to say that yeah let\u0027s say that I have a router running VPN layer 2 VPN a of European Internet services and you want to great business you may fall into a situation where it\u0027s not you are not able to upgrade it because you are not able to find a version which is back free for all the services at the same time so you want things over in thank you for sharing care implementation so more comments are always welcome again at the request of the chairs we brought back some material that has been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:12",
    "text": "presented a pre or private previous IETF s we\u0027re happy to go through this at the level that makes sense for the room if what we\u0027re saying people feel like we\u0027ve done it already I don\u0027t need to say it again so we can get some time back for an early lunch or we can spend the rest of the time going through these few slides it\u0027s really the chairs call your call so what that means is ask questions and if I\u0027m just talking to a quiet room everyone just typing away and no one\u0027s really interested we should stop but your call so most of these slides are taken from that discussion that took place the last meeting in the l3 VPN context in the best working group there are one or two other slides at the very end which from other or from other meetings so generally when we\u0027re talking about how do we do VPN support we want to look at our logical network element model behind me so you can find that in graphed ITF routing Network instance model the version here is wrong because this is from the last ITF there\u0027s a new version on it but there\u0027s not anything really major chain just a couple of syntax changes but those aren\u0027t material for understanding what we\u0027re doing the key thing that we\u0027re doing is we\u0027re creating a list to represent each birth or vsi and we soever every layer 3 VPN layer 2 VPN we call that generically a network instance we also recognize that some instances or bridge router instances so they do both layer 2 and layer 3 and we cover that case as well when looking at how to model a VPN we have some set of information that ends up actually most of the information for controlling that VPN ends up inside the core instance really think about it as it belongs to the PE alone it doesn\u0027t have any information that ends up at getting communicated to a seee so think of that as your Artie\u0027s your RDS some of your label management policies those those types of things are really belong to the PE where do those go what we have is we created a place to hold that type of information but we ourselves didn\u0027t instantiate that we think that belongs to the VPN specific technology so what we do is we have a place for augmentation called ni type network instance type that\u0027s where the PE information is that\u0027s related to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:14",
    "text": "related to a network instance for the information that belongs the Cee most of the time what it what goes there there\u0027s some information that is routing protocol specific or control plane specific and those what we have to represent is actually really just an existing model or 98% it\u0027s just existing information for example if we want to run BGP to between this as Darcy eep-eep protocol we need a whole BGP model and we need a place to put it if we\u0027re running let\u0027s say an l2 VPN and we want to instantiate I don\u0027t know some I Triple E model that supports the ce2 PE communication we need a place to instantiate that and we it\u0027s that we place that underneath are different types of routes so we here we have CA information here we have PE information I have a little more details on that so we had talked about at the last meeting likely impact this is now actual impact on l3 VPN and likely input that impact on l2 VPN and evpn so what\u0027s the ni type for l3 VPN well it\u0027s just like in a new container which is augments the anti-type and has all the information that is specific to configuration of an l3 VPN if you\u0027re interested in what that actually looks like we can actually bring up the individual and bring up the draft that\u0027s now published as draft IETF best l3 VPN yang and I don\u0027t remember if it\u0027s yang model or just yang it\u0027s just yang and that\u0027s you\u0027ll see that that draft actually does that so we have all the PE information sitting here and then for within the context of the l3 VPN we just mount a new instance or per anti instance of existing models the same thing the same models that you would see for the core but now you have data that\u0027s instantiated just for that specific VPN and there\u0027s no modification there to those models at all in the rare case that you actually have a modification and we haven\u0027t figured out one of those yet by the way we keep thinking we\u0027re gonna have them and then we know we go through the details but if you do you could just look you can just augment the model that you have as as you need and instantiate it only for the l3 VPN what does that all mean that sounds a little confusing I think I have nope "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:20",
    "text": "so models when you code in the actual model you represent as a vendor or as implementer you represent what models you support through a couple of mechanisms in yang at the top level the most important mechanism is something called the Eng library basically a device or router can expose to a network manager to the client the list of all the modules at sports and the list and that includes all the augmentations and it does that at the top level as a library and that describes what the schema looks like inside a network instance you have the same thing but instead of talking about at the top level you want to talk about at a particular mount point so in this case the mount point called ver fruit and we need a way of doing that because a new way of doing it cuz laying library doesn\u0027t have it the mechanism that we\u0027re using is something now called schema mount so in schema mount you can identify a mount point the way you do it is you identify the model well the model is missing here but that we have our model name which is the network instance name and then the mount point within it called were fruit and then you list exactly the same information you would list for the top-level in that lot yang library in fact yang library defines a grouping and we just scheme them out just reuses that same group so you describe on the router describes exactly what\u0027s going to show up here so it\u0027s an implementation time decision how you\u0027re going to how a router is going to represent its verse or vs is to its to the clients of the network manager so most of what we\u0027re talking about here is a framework for implementation and giving implementers vendors the tools they need to go represent the the logical partitioning of the system the verbs in a way that is consistent for operators or vendors of network management software to go use I\u0027ve talked so far about where PE information goes that\u0027s per network instance I\u0027ve also talked about where si EPE information was there\u0027s actually a third class of information which is because you are a core router there are some system-wide configuration parameters that are specific to the fact that you run VPNs where does that go doesn\u0027t make sense to put it anywhere on this page because this is per instance that\u0027s it\u0027s perverse but what I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:22",
    "text": "talking about here is a third class of information that is box Y where would that go it actually doesn\u0027t belong in our model it belongs in either an augmentation to an existing protocols such as BGP or in the case of like pseudo wires it\u0027s actually a new model completely and that\u0027s what we\u0027re gonna see we don\u0027t have that case in for l3 VPN it turns out but we are going to have that case for l2 VPN and so that\u0027s some of the discussions that are going on and what you\u0027ll see hopefully in the next graph of the best document the l2 VPN knee VPN drafts again we\u0027ve talked to some set of the authors the ones who are not here is at least one author who I don\u0027t see in the room of those documents that we were hoping to talk sync up a little bit more on I have two slides on Elleni this is what the model that Dan was talking about the difference between what I\u0027m showing here and what Dan showed is Dan actually built a early implementation based on our work this is theoretical so you know this is sort of more generic it\u0027s more applicable to anyone his is an actual example but which one is more applicable to you maybe whether or not it depends on whether or not Dan\u0027s example is close to your example or not if Dan what Dan talked about didn\u0027t resonate with you then this might so in the LME all we\u0027re really about it\u0027s providing a construct for partitioning resources in this case it\u0027s not it\u0027s not tables but it\u0027s actual resources and distributing those resources to multiple logical systems now these may be implemented sort of how router vendors have traditionally done logical systems or it could be VMs or could be containers or could be with any way that you partition your system we think that there\u0027s a multiple pieces that are going to be important like for example if you had QoS resources we think that\u0027s going to be an important thing to partition but we had we don\u0027t have any really good standard models that identify resources today inside the ITF other than interfaces so the only thing that we worry about partitioning at the moment is interfaces so we have the ability of taking an interface and basically assigning it to a logical network element we do that through an augmentation that was on the previous slide the other thing we think is important to be able to support is the ability to support different management models that we have in logical systems in a vert based approach sorry a vm "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:22",
    "text": "based approach typically there\u0027s no way for let\u0027s say the hypervisor or the host to manage what\u0027s going on inside the VM there\u0027s no visibility across there so we represent that with the man in flag being set to false in a more traditional router based system the top level the core router for instance actually can look in and change things that belong to the logical system we support that as well we support it using two P two items use that MANET equals true and then you have a route mount point in that roof mount point like we talked about in the NA case that route mount quite could be instantiate can include any of the modules that the vendor wants to expose underneath that route so it allows top-level management down so what we have here is an example of that think of it as the metal device the base device it\u0027s got a piece of hardware it\u0027s got some interfaces and it\u0027s got a list of logical network elements in this case we instantiated two logical network out actually sorry three logical network elements the blue logical network element the Red Lodge element and the green one inside from the top level you can actually in the manage true equals case you can see all the information you\u0027d fold less on the left side of the page so if you\u0027re coming into the core manager you can see everything but if you\u0027re within the instance let\u0027s say I\u0027m inside the red I\u0027m customer red and I have I come into the network management interface in the red space through an interface that belongs to red this is the management channel but Dan was talking about earlier you wouldn\u0027t see everything but only the pieces that belong to red and likewise vice customer green and only get to see greens information so we would start out from a top level where you have a system that has a full set of resources the full stand ident understanding of full set of resources in and also a full set of all the parameters and then we have customer specific views that are coming in through the system management protocols and interfaces that are configured for that customer that\u0027s all I brought so hopefully that was helpful there\u0027s some definitely some subtlety here there\u0027s a lot of it\u0027s a new way of representing something that we\u0027ve done for a long time so we have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:22",
    "text": "help each other map our old way of doing things into this new network management framework that provides thank you so like to thank you outing young design team for taking diamond effort and helping everybody to better understand if you\u0027ve got any questions and especially does that we are going through implementations and you could provide feedback what\u0027s working what\u0027s not working would be extremely useful you know and I have you request to design team for the next eighty eight meeting probably talk about interacting with service models so another or hope is there isn\u0027t a design team at the next meeting so what we\u0027ll figure now who you are right there one thing I forgot to mention is we have talked to a few people who are doing implementations of both LME\u0027s and N eyes by the way you don\u0027t have to do both you can choose which one is appropriate for a platform and we\u0027ve talked to more people who are doing n eyes and it definitely is if the first few implementations are going to be I think a learning process and but once we have a couple of implementations in the marketplace that it\u0027ll be much easier for the the next set of implementers to figure out how to do it yeah perhaps if there are more implementations will be lower second wiki page and describe what\u0027s been done what\u0027s working what\u0027s not so yes we know vendors are always a little cautious about what they put up there though so done by the individuals of the design team are willing to talk to you so if you have questions please just contact us there\u0027s a guitar contact the whole design team were individuals as you see fit thanks again thank you very much we are wrapping up Monday meeting and we\u0027ll see on Thursday you\u0027re going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:08",
    "text": "you "
  }
]