[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:08",
    "text": "Alright. Smart man that microphone off. Hello, and welcome to Mo. We're one minute after time. So let's get started. I'm Sean turner. Next sullivan. Is the Working group where I one sixteen. Let's go on. It's not the working group Id status. I'll have to change that at some point. This is the note well. Again, it's Thursday. So hopefully, you see these a little bit. You know, this is the... If if you know about patents. Say see something say something. But some manny harassment procedures and policies and code, etcetera. Luckily, we've had none of the problems that we sometimes have in the."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Group has been very and very point. It's been Nice. Alright. So meeting tips. We got a meeting tool. Please scan this Qr code so we make we have a room that is the right size for people the next time. Otherwise, we will get a closet And if you wanna get in... It's also how we're gonna manage the queue to work with the remote participants. So if you wanna get in, you make sure you get in the queue. And we'll I will manage to give from care. Alright. So more resources. If it gets there, it's little lag. This is from the template. I meant to delete this. Alright. Our agenda. Is pretty straightforward. This is the minister of the blue sheets again, scan the Qr code. We do need some scribes or he scribes to use the tool to take minutes. Anybody, we don't need a blow by blow description, All we need really is action points, I see there's some arm twisting going on. I really appreciate that. I'll buy a coke at the break. Alright. I think we found a scribe I appreciate that. There's a note taking tool if you log in Appreciate that. Are there any revisions that anyone would like to make to the charter. We're basically gonna try to talk about each one of the It's each one of them the drafts that we have. We got some slides as maybe not organized the best but it's your probable status update on the implementations and each one of the drafts. And then some other individual drafts that rowan is keeps to pump it out for us. Alright. I hear anything we'll do all typical case you don't know how this works, this is where we are. So this is our status document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "So even kinda going around this chain. With protocol, we are approved. Is in the Rf editor sku. We have a successful protocol because we've made t shirts and stickers. It's not yet have a sticker, you can see me at the end because I got a whole bunch of them. Yeah. So that's fine. So that's great. So we're basically in a wait. It it usually takes about two months for the r center to get to the queue because you start at the bottom and you work way up. So in about two months we'll probably end up with a number. That's great. And there'll probably be some kind of minor editorial corrections are... You know, do they copy it at the draft to make sure commas in the right place and stuff. So we'll we'll have some minor changes. And then for the architecture draft, not quite as good. So the little thing at the bottom is what the ballot looks like. And so we need ten of those little boxes under the if you can see my cursor over here. We need ten of those, and they all gotta be green. And no red. We got some reds. So we gotta fix those. There's one steam and that's fine. But we're basically... We have a group of people primarily, I think led by Decker, who's gonna try to provide updates to get the document done and out the door. T for three of those. Great. Great. So we just have to get them reviewed and the Line add. Great Echo. If you wanna get it something that be awesome. Thanks. Thank you. I so are is the this document was part to like be a clear position of how worked. And over the years, there's more paid protocol less architecture brought it into not, like friday's clear expedition as we were hoping. You know, we went and took the pieces that we throw reps was critical to make the protocol document but explanatory, properly, you probably off. In the protocol and I think now we're present time of the rating of architecture. You can see some of the sort of complaining. Some of those sort of not as awesome as it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "on this, you know, if I can discuss, but we're hoping make a complete pass through to be sure it's like, actually clear in places. Fair enough I mean, there was twenty revisions of the protocol document I like, half as many for. Yeah. Sector. So it's just clear. And is just part of the normal growing pains getting a document through the process. And I think the the difference is the protocol people could really dig into it because you could, like, describing the protocol field where the architecture dock is a little bit more free flowing and describing of ideas we'll get on that and get it done. They're... At at one point they were couple, so, they one couldn't get published without the other, but we've kind of done some decoupling so the protocol document to be published without the architecture document. And that's all great. So sent back in here. Alright. Richard. You're up. Typical pink slides. Alright. Perfect. Yeah. So addition did you did you pick this car to match the shirts? I did not I I did now. I need it rotate rotated it a little bit so it's a little more purple instead think this came out of ugly slide valve between Martin Tan, and I like somewhat to kept it. So do you want a driver or do you want me to drive? If you got it up already you you go drive. Okay. Skulls forward the slide. Sean already talked about In fact we've gone through a two revisions. The major one was this draft eighteen it resolves scott's positions we got when pure evaluation wasn't anything major in those. The more major change we made was this grease thing. Our colleague david Of the architecture report. Came around just we do this grease approach to maintaining building avoiding notification, which has worked well and this other protocols the Etf."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "Which involves, you know, inserting random values in some fields the receiver of the field is supposed to ignore unknown values. So we wrote that in. And then published the new drops and Brendan promptly found a bunch of errors that we needed to fix and how we didn't go with that And so we cut draft my team right after fix those those. Both in draft being draft twenty We fixed a few minor consistency things and ambiguity that we got all into introduce testing. But basically it's been a bunch of minor changes in those last few drafts that can showing right now. So so richard should interrupt Issue before you go... Are you gonna talk about inter internet testing? Nope. You're the next slide. Great. Yeah. So I got these minutes ago. So none of us have reviewed these. This is the thanksgiving getting about them. We started taking a queue up of the implementations that we're out there and verifying they all operated And the cool like, top line headline here is that we now have full inter up on pretty much the whole spec between the Ml P stack that we using Webex and the wicker stack that that they're developing for their application. So We've got lower levels verified as few other stacks, but we have, like, pretty full spec up among those two. So like, that gives us pretty good confidence. That this thing is is ready to roll. So so that really pleased that result. Just to get folks an idea of what we're doing here, we've got six different implementations got. I think roughly half of them open source off of the not open source a variety of languages between c plus plus rust. Java one just came along. We're kind of doing two different styles of inter testing. We got a bunch of test vectors as kind of the first level of testing. That cover the deter parts of the protocol."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "The idea is that you can take these test vectors that, you know, we're generated off of one of the stacks different stocks implement generated different test vectors. But are all implemented by one of the stacks. But you can take these test vectors you can run it against your stack, you know, put it in your tech you use it as unit tests and things like that. So it's kinda one party you you you tested on your own. We also have a G c based framework for doing live tests. And what we've done is we've devised a collection of of test scripts that cover all the functionality in the protocol and we do some deeper programs to make sure that quarter cover as well. And then the way these work is used you spin up, you know, two or more stacks or one or more stacks that you wanna verify or interrupt And then those the exact G pc server, so you can send our pcs to to do protocol operations. And then there's a a test runner scripts that runs these scenarios across the two or two or more implementations turned your chest? So basically, we've got a bunch of progress in across several implementations. I think. There's at least four of these six implementations that have up lapse and test covered. And then T p and Wicker and open loss done. A bunch of the live testing against one another. So I think, the hope is to get more more folks implementing more more testing going on among folks. But I think overall, the the testing has been pretty clean. We've found a bunch of implementation bugs. We've found Like I said, a few minor things in spec, but nothing major but most folks are pretty much on the same page. If you like to participate, there's links at the bottom for the repository where we're tracking all this stuff. And slack channel. Where are we having ongoing discussions? So I think that's Was that that's all I had to say I shouldn't to show my my celebratory new slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "our approval and say we are off the our now. To go get our number. As Sean said in a few weeks here. I'll I'll use the tool to join the queue. Just to please keep track of these inter interrupt tests Richard you might not care about Internet standardization levels, some people do this does get the deployed widely. If you think it will, we can use all of those to just ask the Is to update the the level of standardization. You can go from it default. Yeah. We've we've got a like, a Google spreadsheet we're tracking at least test vector results in I can drop that and chat here in the mailing list. And that... And that's all we need. Okay. I I can write I can write the wrapper that goes around it. It's a little... So test vectors are easy to explain the live testing is a little bit harder because that's it's a it's a protocol. It does groups. And so we have this confidence we're opening like, which x do you have involved. Person our tooling generates all the combinations we need. But you know, it's it's a little harder to say here, we tested these in combinations of of clients together. But I'm sure we can find right now. Okay. Thanks. Sure. So the next document we were gonna talk about is architecture, but we're gonna put a pin in that because I don't think rolling through each one of the P r described whether it's it's it's gonna make any sense right now. So the next one is actually the next set of slides is Rafael already gonna go for both extensions and federation. Thank you, Rafael. That's much more appropriate. Wow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "Okay. Yeah. So I mean, I think the really important part is richard that. We were really focused on the protocol in the past weeks and months. Glad we're there. So the efforts regarding everything else has been much lower. Yeah. Next slide. So yeah, we have this federation document, the status is still same. It's stable. There's new version uploaded to keep it alive. So we are waiting to see what happens in the me working group, and I think some of you might have attended this morning. And probably noticed, but it's very much live. A lot of discussion happening. So, yeah. Again, the is is to wait to see what happens there and then see how we positioned this document. So just for context, this pre mimi and the was to open the field bit regarding federation. That's not the core mission of mimi. So we'll see what we do with that. Yeah. Next slide? Richard. Briefly on the federation doc. Just to put the idea out there. There may be some non mimi cases where having a standard Ds api would be useful. Folks doing kind of interrupted between sign conferencing systems, for example. But happy to discuss those those later on... I I don't think there's any special urgency just Yeah, that's a good plan. So mayan general, I should so I'm happy for any sort of feedback in that sense. And also As you said, if it's stuff that is not going to be mimi, then it should actually the federation, but we don't know whether it's going to be in mimi or not at this point. We should wait for that. But happy to start any any discussion. Regardless."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Yeah. Next slide, please. So yeah. Well then as of fairly recently, we have this extensions document, which started out as a place a bit of a dumping ground for stuff That didn't make it the protocol. And so we looked into making this a little bit more formal and and try to see what structure we stood up here. So on on a very practical level, there has been very late addition to the protocol document regarding Aya, so we have flexible wire formats now we have labels for the main separation for signatures, public encryption and exporter. That is, of course, something that extensions can use, so that's very irrelevant here. And in fact, the targeted messages extension now has on wire format it. Which is... I think it was initiated by that extension, but others will certainly I could imagine. Then we have added the content advertisement extension and Ron is gonna talk about that in a bit. Also so that was propose as an independent draft initially and that made extensions document. So this is a dynamic that works. Obviously. Anyone is unsure can always publish a draft and then we can have some discussion. Alternatively, you can to file a P against the extensions on we can discuss it there. Both ways work. Another draft in the same vein that has been proposed by Ron as a group and draft. He's also gonna talk about that in a bit. And then finally, more about extensions in general. There has been some discussion between Joel Mart, Conrad and I to think a bit about Giving some guidance on how extensions should be structured, what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "security implications are And so none of that is in the document yet. So this has not been discussions. And, yeah, I try to talk about that. And I think that is already on the next slide. And track Yeah. Sure. Four zeros. Thanks. Oh, great. Yeah. Okay. So safe extensions the idea here is We wanna to build an extension which provides an Api. We're calling the safe extension Api for lack of imagination. And the idea is to bring a bit of sanity into how we build extensions. Because right now these extensions like there's a bit of a free for all we can final kinds of extensions. And so there's no They can break things that can interact in weird ways and that makes it hard to analyze and to build these extensions because you kind of you really have to analyze them. You have to think about how they're gonna be used in, like, anything... Anything else you're gonna use, you're gonna have to think how that interacts. To make that whole jobs simpler to make it easier to build extensions, that's what this idea of safe Api is. Right? So... Yeah. The purpose is kinda of twofold. First, okay. First terminology we call a safe extension is an extension that only interacts with the Ml session via this Api. Right? So there's a safe extension Api, which is an extension that gives us the Api And then you can build extensions that interact with the session via this Api. On call these safe extensions. And now the guarantee that the Api gives us is two. The first is no safe extension is going to harm the core security properties that we that the no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "has has been analyzed to give us. Right? So a safe extension is not gonna break anything in Ml s. Is the the clean way of saying there. And it goes further, they're also not gonna break each other. You can... And and from the from the designer's perspective, that means you can design your safe extension and analyze it in isolation. Like analyzing in a setting where it's just ml s running with the safe extension. And whatever properties, especially security properties, you conclude that it it has you're guaranteed that it's gonna keep those security properties Regardless of what other safe extensions it then gets composed with in an actual session. So that these these security properties are comp with each other. So makes it much easier for us to designed these things and analyze them. So we can work in isolation. And it extends to however we actually end up using them. So that's the goal of this Api. Next slide, please? Run. When you say session, do you mean group Yes. Okay. Thanks. And really. So just some ideas of, like, you know, What could you do? What what kind of extensions can we hope to build from this Api? Not everything we ever want is gonna be able to we can we can make it as a safe Api. But still it looks like already, there's some pretty useful types of extensions that we can implement as safe extensions. So a good example would be role based access control for. Right? That means basically the concept of a moderator in a room, for example, You know, we can build... We can build extension that implements role based access control. A relatively generic way actually. So that's something we could do with as a safe extension. Liver bit more technical, also you can have a safe extension that allows applications to import data into the group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "And so we inherit all the nice properties that this Ml session gets Right? Like so crypto photographic agreement on this data that's imported from the higher level application. So this import feature, this is also something we can do by yeah, safe extension, exposing some of the keys that are inside the crypto traffic state. Right? We have these ratchet trees We've got all these signature keys. Everybody's got their own signature key already and H keys at their leaves Sometimes this kind of stuff is also useful for higher level applications. So you can we have a safe extension. That safely exposes these keys. So it it doesn't give the keys because that wouldn't be safe but it gives an interface to the key so that higher level applications can use them And again, the guarantee is it's not gonna harm the session. So it essentially enforces key separation. In fact of the things you can do with this is exactly this one on one messaging. So you can you can use the ratchet state that you have and and and these keys in this route should say two to also do one on one messaging. That's something you could build on top of this extension to safely expose keys. Another one is sort of a smart idea for post quantum, how to do post quantum, which gives you a little more flexibility than just saying, oh, we're gonna use a post quantum camera or something. Because they are kind of The point is you you have to pay the price for every single operation. That you wanna do at the ratchet tree level, you always... If you... If you're gonna use a post quantum cypress suite, Every step you always paying the price of the post quantum primitives. You can separate that out. And so you can say, well, I wanna, like, only every tenth commit is actually gonna be a post quantum commit. And so the other ones are more efficient classical and and, like, every tenth one, you're really gonna pay the price quantum. This sort of separating out post quantities. Another thing you could do is a safe extension. Else got. Yeah. Application triggered custom event injection, And then alternative message application message formats."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "Again, one on one messaging is such as an example once it came across a use case that were signatures on application really wasn't necessary. And and, you know, you'd have to modify Ml less to to actually strip off the signatures, and so instead you can do that with a safe extension you have to worry about affecting anything inside less. So these are just examples that demonstrate the viability of Api. It's actually capable enough to do some stuff. Yep. Michael? Yeah. Michael Bay Uk and. It's supposed to be a dumb question you say the say such can't interfere with each other. So they just gonna be there's a list of safe extensions that anyone can pick from, but something's not gonna be add list of interface with any of the others that are on there. No. Actually, it's it's more like every extension you register with anna. That's sort of the one condition. Extension has to register with Ia and gets its own number. And so that that gives us domain separation. And then the safe extension Api relies on that. But it it's not like there's some... There's gonna be some list. In fact the kind of the point is has a designer. You don't have to care what else exists. You might end up getting your extension composed with extensions that haven't even been invented yet. And it's still okay. Okay. The Api takes care of the separation for you. Okay. Thanks. Alright. Great. Thank you. I'm looking forward to this because I'm trying to figure out how this is gonna work because it's safe extensions is an extension that tells you list of extensions that are safe or is this rules that go to the designated expert when they're picking when they're being defined and they get, like, a tick in the and the In registry. That's that's the only. I'm trying to figure out. Is that how it works basically? Mean, I taken in the eye in registry, sounds like a good idea. So this is when they get registered, we can define the rules. Like, if you're gonna get this, you you have to... If you're gonna say it's a safe extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Right? The designated expert pool has to agree and then they can get that tick and then they can essentially, it's... You know, I hate to say it's it's almost like a critical flag that was in in in x five nine right. It's like this extension is safe. Mh. Is that what this is... So you're basically, you're saying this field is gonna be included in every extension. Yeah. I mean, it's... Yeah. I guess okay. Yeah. Okay. I mean it's relatively easy to verify, because all you gotta do is just say, is it only using this Api? Okay. Okay. So... Okay. Cool. Alright. Great. No. No. This is where. This this is working progress don't. Yeah. Mean, I can't wait to see it. I can just add one more thing robert again. So we didn't bring this to the list yet because it's so much working progress, and not fully has yet, but Obviously, we wanted to presented it today, and it's very much open. For comment, and we will bring that un Hopefully soon. One quick question. Is is the expectation that extensions need draft. Or an Rf to be registered with Diana. For the safe extensions. Don't... Isn't that a rule for Aya in general? Yes. So it's it ends up being specification required so we can write the rules for what best vacation is, but, yeah, any internet draft could work, but you have to publish something. Yeah. Because otherwise, a new own call works. Right? With Tls you have an extra check mark for recommended, which is if it actually has an Rf. Right? Right. Yeah. I mean, I I don't see how I it would work. I mean, if if you just talk about it, then it's probably not substantial enough not persistent enough. So so the idea is that the the going through the process of getting It theft consensus phrases the bar. Significantly. Right? But that maybe is what's required to make sure that people think it's safe. I mean, I mean, there's still the two options other, it is in the extensions document, and then we don't need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "to adopt that document because we already adopted it. If it's a separate draft, then there's this additional step of getting it adopted. But yeah in terms of safe extensions, the bar should be the same for the two so that be independent. Then other case, it is other draft or a P towards the extension document. The other thing to keep in mind is that Ml will still have to be a working group we would need to have new new rf. Right. the... What do we assume. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or so that Okay. Hi. I'm really may. Alright we have we have you have fifteen slides and we have thirty minutes. So You. No problem. Okay. Next slide, please. So We already have this section two dot three of the extension draft is content advertisement. There's nothing... There there's nothing that hasn't been already available for people to look at yet, but we haven't really gotten any I haven't gotten any feedback. On this. Next slide, please. Briefly There are two extensions? There's one accepted media types, which goes into leaf nodes. So those can be in leaf nodes in your in a retro and so you know what the What media types are supported by each of the members of a group and in key packages in the leaf note in the key package so that you when you're when you're touching a key package to go and add someone into a group, you know what media types they support then? In the group context, you have a required media types extension which you can use to say these are required for this particular group. And that was also That's optional. You don't need to have a required media text."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "And of course, you can use media types that are not included in the required media type as long as it's clear what the clients, the members who do not what those need to do. And, of course, there is the the standard and most mechanism for how do you change how you change extensions inside of leaf nodes and how you change extensions inside of group context group contacts you use a group contents. Group context extensions proposal, and you use an update or update path for leaf nodes. Next. Okay. Probably the most unique thing about this extension is that it has an application framing mechanism So if there is a required media types, extension and we're context, then the application data is assumed to use this application framing mechanism, which is just this up here, which you provide the media type. And then you provide the application contact content with the length. And charcoal. If the media type is a zero length of vector, then you assume that the media type is the first type in the required media types. First. Next slide, please. Okay. So if you have not looked at this, And you feel this is interesting, please, have a look. Mimi is Is basically gonna reference this. So I would appreciate some some feedback, even if it's... Yeah, that looks fine. Okay. Grip trust. So really very short. Oh, yeah. Ted."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "Sorry. The microphone is kind of... I will stand at a slightly different angle so I can see that part of the screen. Thanks. I I had looked at this before and I looked at it again. And I think the one thing it's a little bit odd about it And right now was the discussion of multiple alternative because it's not clear reading it whether you mean multi part alternative to be used where each of the various clients is selecting a different alternative out of multiple alternative message or whether the presumption is that any individual client that gets the multi part alternative will do so. So it's it's not clear whether what you're sending is a of all of the types which might be used by the different clients or some subset that's appropriate to the center. I think that language needs to be cleaned up a little bit. And I will tell you multi part alternative has had a long street of doing surprising things. Yes. Not necessarily pleasant surprises either. So you may you may wanna consider carefully whether that's that's actually a useful long term path or whether you wanna do something else? I would definitely... In general look at all of the multi parts and go let me think carefully. Multi part max, all of them are a little bit odd. And so... Yep. It that... That's when you where you might wanna look at the language and and see if you can tighten it on on how the different clients are expected to use it if it's going to all the clients or how it's being constructed. And the the intention was that for example, if I had if I have twelve members in in a group, and some of them support markdown and some of them support Html and I wanted to put something more fancy with using Html that I would send a alternative that has both I would have a single encrypted message that has both the down and the Html, and I would put them in the in the preferred order and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "would expect each client would look at it and would use the most preferred the most preferred part. Yeah. That is supported. Yeah. Okay. So that's the the the kind of tricky that is, like, you do this at intersection has never been it is something that is kind of specific to to different usages of it. And so if if you're actually expecting that the Alternative order is being set by the sender and that the client kicks the first occurring alternative based on it's accepting that media type. Surprisingly enough you may need to say that out loud. Because, well, you might think you've read the mind specs and that... That's what they say. A lot of times that's not what actually happens. You may wanna say it that? Okay. Thank you. Okay. Trust takers. So our next slide, please. This was a very short internet draft that I sent right before the deadline So the problem we are doing federation right now. We're doing federation with them less. And one of the things that we noticed is that we wanted to do start using identity and news certificates for for user identities. And we needed a list of trust anchors to do validation of identities and you know, if they were all of my trust. I had a bunch of trust anchors in my operating system or in my application? That's all that's great. But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "I really don't wanna trust the, you know, several dozen any of the several dozen trust anchors and any intermediate certain certificates that may have been rooted in those to make an assertion about every domain that I fed with. I'd like to be able to restrict that and make up more more precise So this is For example, let's say, I have Atlanta dot a, which is fed with block dot b e and chicago dot c h. So I should be able to say at atlanta dot at is using the intermediary, know, C at atlanta dot at, which is rooted in such as such certificate for identity in that domain. So even if intermediary C atlanta dot At is compromised, and or and at atlanta dot a, the service tries to send something It cannot imp val dot e or chicago dot c h. If those use different different trust without being... Without being detected by the clients. From the other domains. So I hear I see you All not in. This is good. Okay. Next slide, please. Okay. So the mechanism on my proposed was pretty straightforward. So this is a group context extension with a list of domain In this case credential pairs, but inside credential if it's x nine, it would be a searching. And so I could put a root search"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "I could put an intermediary cert and its root search. So I could validate that This is Four anything with the domain block dot b e in this group. This is the search chain that I want to use for Dot. For atlanta dot at, I want to use this searching shane. This is a And for this two... The the way I envision this is this would have to be Whatever this is rooted in would have to be in you're already in your Os or or application routes certificate So it's not like we're introducing a new way to create list. brand new red. Oops. Richard. And so it seems like there's a little bit of a definition issue here. And that you're trying to define validation rules per domain I don't feel like we really have a notion of which you know, which am ml which client and then the loss group belongs to which domain. Do you have a a a theory on how how I evaluate which of these valuation rules to apply to which member of the group. I have my own answer to that, which would be that if I have a Url that has that has a a domain portion in it. However, that happens to be constructed that it would match that domain. So blazing about the matching actual matching algorithm. But yes. Yeah. I think it's you we just might need a little bit more definition in terms of how a leaf node gets marked as belonging to of the management that's like a certificate profile or an extension to weekend. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "that claims which didn't answer part of or since I don't like that. You got sure? Yeah. Correct ahead. So So as I understand that the concept here is that I am. I am Alice atlanta, and I thinking gave me the certificate that has the subject subscription alt name I suppose. Weather dot com? And or signed by some trust anchor? Yep. So mean, like I think first of all, like, that like assumes, like, the existence of some x extraordinary profile for this doesn't that is but so... And and so the idea would be that that Bob has a list of, like, C that he think is acceptable for my dot com? And he provide... I mean, that it would particularly be provided in this this group context. So if you're fed with, you know, three domains that there would be. Yeah So I mean, like There's a bunch of power here. Should not work out well? Which I mean, it was better in this frankly and did not work at well. So I mean, like happens when I like, my cert gets updated is like, question one. Are during your search chain and the guy like rei issues. And like now, like only works. So so I think like, I mean, like, having searching like this is, like gonna be disastrous. But like there's like, a bunch our here in web Contacts with Hp. And like it was completely abandoned basically, it was. And so I'm like, very skeptical this in this case. So I mean, you mentioned the specific case of sorta chain being updated, and we have a way to update update group context extensions and leaf nodes. Yeah. But like but, like, the the the the use case you on with Hp, whereas you create a situation where these were workable for a while. And there's precisely people are concerned about. People... Like we're routinely managed to put the web for this. And so I mean, yes. Principle is all fixable. What my point is this is like a it's like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "second card like coordination and and like, you know, on chains, like, evaluation of signs of all things like Ai chasing. Just like, he's really, like this is like a very brutal that that you're trying to a very brutal system your to concerned. Yes. So I think I'm sort of, like, you know, like, I understand, I understand why you might want this, but, like, I'm just saying, like, this was like, This is like something the web website and might could be. So I think that like That feel to just real requires doing this. Well, I I think there may be an interesting difference here from the web in that and and the web certificates kinda just show up you know, one tls transaction to another. In, in order for a certificate to come into the group, leaf to us to do an operation. So in principle, we could augment the validation rules for the operation. So a if an operation was going to introduce an invalid certificate in in all according in these rules, then then it would fail, which would mean would be forced to update the rules to allow your certificate for But okay. There's already language in the within the dust. Actually that's. So my you're here. Who just wants to me rolls? But could what which rules are you referring to? This list of significance. If anyone changes the group context they are required to... It's consistent. So absent any application larry know, rules about who can do what. By default, allows anyone to update the group context extensions. And so any member of the group could update these rules. Right. So this just seems like a great opportunity for these go... They're a very copy one. Right where, you know, you know, you got you you had some... You you know, you you you add somebody, you you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "like, might somebody the group and then and like you can figure the the extensions, and white this like a searching chain change and then again making joining which are gonna read the person who can modify the group wine, It just takes take a lot of things in your wrong here. So like, I I guess, like like I run seems like like minimum moon what you need here. Is like now it's like go back and, like, read the literature Hd Hp and why it was def. And like, explain why this is not gonna have all the same kinds of problems. Okay. Any other on this? Okay. So the... Anyway, I did get two suggestions about this one for martha? Which was that would be nice to be able to use a hash or a reference of some kind to the cert. And Okay. In a trivial fast search. I was not able to find a sort of canonical, this is the best practice reference for referring to Go ahead. Sure. What... Hp P p date was used S p I. Mh. Which is like strictly like west. So like I think if you're... Again, like, I would like use if you're anything. So there there is an extension called Hash There was an next five nine extension, but it's just it's just a hassle of the. So or just the key, I think actually. But event, we can find pointers for that stuff yeah. Yeah. The hash of the key would not be particularly good for this. So Richard also made some comments about know that this could be used for distribution if there were other way if they're specific very clear ways to authorize new keys. I wasn't comfortable with because I have been thinking about the use cases and very narrow scope."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "I was not comfortable with adding any of those, but I'm just adding that. Oh, Anyway, I encourage... I will you know, I'll post something regarding the the literature that Sp and the things that I mentioned? But if anyone is interested in this, please make yourself known. Okay. Next slide, please. How are we doing all time. You got fourteen minutes. And it sounds like the name of an art film. Okay. So I didn't submit a draft on this, I didn't have time. But this was something that Had been bothering me since. We got back got back comments and discusses from the ids on the protocol and architecture documents. And so here's a quote, the issue of inability for quiet to remove itself from the group by itself seems un unstoppable. I would like to see recommendations of the document for clients wishing to exclude themselves in situations. When other members for some reason, don't operate in the process. I could not agree more. This is a royal pain in my butt. Implementing implementing leaving it just is really, really uncomfortable. And the reason for that is external commits. Cause spirit we have specific language in external commits that say that because you can't properly verify pending proposals. And probably didn't have a way you know, any defined way to know about pending proposals. That you ignore pending proposals and may become invalid in the context of the external commit. And then any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "proposals that have been pending in the previous epic once that commit is accepted, the sender of those proposals is expected to magically cause those things to be resent. So effectively what this means is you have someone who tries to leave they're on a, you know, a slow device or a full link Yep. And you have a bunch of people joining and they need to stick around in the group for several epics waiting until someone finally commits. Their leave or the remove proposal. It's really ugly. Next slide, please. So One possible way we could solve this is something like a a a leave proposal which only would apply, it would be like a remove proposal, but it would only by two to the member sending it themselves. Who would sign it in a way that can be that can be verified by an external joiner. In other words, you don't need to be you don't need to use material from from inside the group in order to be able to verify the the leave proposal as you do with our remove proposal. And the semantics here we would there's a field when you define a new proposal type, whether it is allowed an external commits. Currently, external commits say that you can have a remove proposal. But you can only remove a previous version of yourself. And that's not what we wanna do because the commit is not the person who wants to leave it's a person who actually wants to leave. So the lead proposal would have different semantics. And the change that we would need here is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "it would be expected that the leaf proposal would be included in external commits. Any external commit be able to verify the signature. And presumably when they get the group info that they need to do the external the external commit that they would also get the leaf proposal or proposals that were pending for the group at the same time. So I find this problem to be really annoying, and I would like to have a solution for it. Regardless of whether it resembles this this particular proposal in any way. Are you do you all think? Rafael. Yeah. Robert speaking. So first of all, I agree with you, this is generally not really compatible with external commits realized of myself not so long ago. And probably something which should addressed earlier. And also what I actually wanted to speak to is to the third proposal you're making here, which didn't explain. Yeah. Because I think that that is already the case. So if they are pending commits, you cannot send application messages. You have to commit to them. And so what I'm wondering in general is if, you know, in in real life, whether the is really going to manifest or not. Because assuming that there are some clients that come online at some point, And well, they're programmed in a way that's As soon as they see a leaf proposal, then the issue commits. So statistically, this is much more likely to happen quickly than someone joining with an external commit. Not all it's not guaranteed, obviously. But there might be a very good chance but you rarely run into the problem that you stick around longer than you want to in a group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "So with... I mean, more guidance for implement that this could alleviate most of the problem. So the the case where where we saw this was when implementing conferencing using where you have a bunch of people leaving and a bunch of people joining basically, on the hour the half hour. And So as a bunch of people are trying to That like, basically, bunch of people say I wanna leave and they can't commit. Pending proposals and the people who are who are joining, can't commit the proposal side. And you have you might end up with, you know, in some of our cases, you might end up with fifteen commits. That go by and the you know commit... Oh, I need to send need just res by remove... Oh open no. No. There's new commit. No. I can't do it. Again, again. Again. And so it particularly it's we also have cases where, you know, somebody wanted to leave and then they crush you know, And then they end up coming back, you know, a few, you know, a few hours later and there's It it just says It's a very una appealing situation and I agree that it's not that in many of the sort of most normal situations that don't involve, for example, conferencing. That there a lot of things you can you can do that that caused this problem to not happen? But in this particular use case, It it's it gets really ugly. Yeah. That's a good pun. But just to put that more in context already started doing. So Was initially developed for a synchronous messaging. We wanted to work for time communication as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "But there's a bunch of things that are more challenging when using Ml for real time communication. This is certainly one of them. But yeah. I understand that in in the particular scenario, you you're describing that might be a problem and you would have to come up with an entirely different solution to address that. So and maybe just to conclude so what you're proposing to sorry. To include the the leave proposal, in the external commit. It slightly changes the logic and and the security we have around that because for now, you needed to have proof that you are part of the group and I only proof that you own the private signature key to the public key, you have... So it's well, it's strictly less in terms of security. And I'm closer to external proposals in that sense. That doesn't mean that's It's it's a huge problem. I just want to come out it's different and probably need some more consideration. So I'm I'm curious in general if the folks think that this is worth writing up writing up an Internet draft concrete proposal doing a security evaluation for we would implement it. Existed. I think a draft is needed to solve a problem, but maybe we can iterate a bit on that design in particular. Have some ideas I wanna share with you too. Okay. But the only question that I wanna ask right now really is Do we... Is there is there interest and energy solving the problem? Okay. Any other thumbs up other than as well? Okay. I'll tell I'll take what I can get. Alright. Next slide, please. Alright. Yeah. Time we got, like, five minutes. Yeah. Alright Will be one minute for."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "Okay. Next slide, please. So the architecture document has a list of operational requirements. There we are. You can imagine that being able to use the agreement of an S group to make sure that everybody particularly in a federated environment or inter environment. Was operating off the same set of policy knobs might be kind of useful. So I just wanted to flag this as a... You know, could this might be an interesting Kennedy for an extension. Next slide. And so It might be interesting to have the machine readable way of communicating some of these policies. Whether or not it... You know, even if it's like an out of band, something that's used out of band, And then it may be interesting for the same or different subset of those of those policy knobs to be able to pro agree within an s group that those parameters are the same. That was all Oh, okay. Great. Alright. Great. Next slide. Thank you. Okay. Well, thanks. Remember, before you leave, you came in late scan the Qr codes so we get that appropriately sized room. Thank you for all your work after anything else paul? Okay? Awesome. Thank you very much. Yeah If if you want stickers, I get stickers."
  }
]
