[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "e e e e"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:15",
    "text": "hello everyone we'll get started soon uh just as soon as some of our um some more participants show up to the meeting though in the meantime as usual it would be great if we could get a volunteer to take notes e e hello hello"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:14",
    "text": "okay we've got a note taker now so I think we can get started um so welcome everybody to the uh latest Mimi interim meeting for June 19 that's funny the slides just disappeared on me okay um as usual please note well the not well in particular the itf's policies on intellectual property and the code of conduct um we already have a notetaker thank you very much Brendan it's much appreciated um so let's move on to the to the agenda bash so the only thing we have on the docket is I believe Rowan wants to present on updates to the content format draft um and pass that go ahead R yes please yeah um and beyond that I guess the floor is open in case anybody wants to say anything more about uh metadata privacy those discussions we started last time um it does seem like there's been some motion on that on the mailing list just this morning or rather just before this meeting um and I saw Rowan you have a couple of changes up uh for um encrypted handshake proposals so um if anybody wants some time to speak to either of those questions we have plenty left over so yeah anybody want to Conrad just sent a a a summary to the list just just a few minutes ago well yeah that's what I was referring to um it seems like that's pertinent to the metadata privacy question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "yeah that's just a summary essentially of the two approaches we discussed so far the sud based approach and the uh encrypted HC messages based approach it's quite short so um if you just want to glance at it but not sure we want to discuss it further it was more meant as a kind of cheat sheet and overview to give people an idea of what the two approaches entail fair enough well let's get into content format and then um after that we'll see what's up with metadata privacy uh one sec R there we go Grant okay so real real briefly on the Mimi content format um there's an 04 version which I submitted uh not long ago a few weeks ago week week and a half ago maybe and it has um so basically the big thing is that we now have a uh concrete seore syntax with the a cddl schema all the examples are Seaboard instance documents they all validate with the schema the ex the examples are all in the GitHub repo and the examples also include more complex multi-art uh you know multi-art body type things that look like multi-art alternative multi-art uh mixed multiart uh alternative uh style uh things that would be familiar to people who have done stuff with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "email uh and since uh the 03 version was since the last ATF I'll just mention that I did add a hash of the content the external content array that was something I'd meant to do during the O2 for the O2 version and it just had just fallen off my plate i' forgotten to do it um so um I'm curious uh yeah maybe I I'm real Curious how many people have actually looked at this so I um I know that there is not a t there's not there's not a lot of experience with people using seore um and I basically feel like this was the sort of the least bad option that we could have gone gone with um because they're not really off-the-shelf valid validation tools that we would have been able to use with uh with TS presentation language and and extensibility model it just gets kind of complicated um we have had a couple of people from the cabore working group who've had a glance at it but so far I think um I'm the only one who's been you know who's been like running validation on these on a regular basis Rafael go ahead hey yeah so I have not looked at the the latest uh draft but we did Implement an earlier version at least you know partially and I was wondering who else is actually implementing that are you maintaining an implementation run do you know of anyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "will have an implementation by the next ATF okay because I think it would be nice to uh compare noes going forward and yeah and see what's what's hard to implement or what maybe doesn't make sense um yeah okay is there anybody else here who is planning to implement that is willing to speak up uh and um maybe we could even do a maybe we could even do a show of hands tool if there's anyone who wants to remain anonymous but wants to express their that they would actually be implementing this Tim Alissa are you guys willing to do a show of hands for this uh sure I guess I mean we're small group um but if you think it would be helpful I think we can do that uh let's see can you see it I can see it pretty exciting I like no opinion thank you thank you no opinion it's slightly better than watching paint dry right oh oh shooting up look at that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "anonymity doubled our implementor pool here well there's 17 of us here and there's seven responses we're getting a pretty good response rate too nobody has said no so there's potentially 10 additional implementers right here in this meeting okay going once going twice so it looks like oh Rowan if you're speaking I cannot hear you no I was just speaking to my granddaughter who was who came up to ask about breakfast so uh there you go it looks like there's okay potentially forent all right go ahead Alissa just another thought if you if you feel like you're at this point in process um we could ask for an apps area review which might get us a reviewer who's dealt a lot more with seore if you wanted I mean it's not not a required step of the process at any point but it's something we could potentially ask for or I could ask Orie what he thinks okay do you think would be useful or you want to wait longer let let's see if we get more comments from people on the from the C mailing lists okay maybe give it two weeks and then we can if we need to ask we can ask in two weeks okay okay all right uh so all right just going to the open issues real quick so we've got um there are three three issues um related to different cabore options which I'm basically looking for input"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "from the seabo community um the most interesting of these is for this group is that we have we have some implied uh values so they're values that you know we would have extracted from the MLS message um so the message ID the Tim stamp you things like that so this may not even really belong here these are more things these These are values which which an API might get access to but they're not conveyed in the content format they are just values that would be useful um and are used specifically the message ID is used extensively by the um by the content format um it's just assume that it's delivered by the by the MLS layer or by high higher level protocol uh the other two issues are the subject field and so I propose that we close this one because it can be handled in the extensions map Ron Peters who opened the issue he said he was fine with that um but you know that he was fine with that in principle uh there hasn't been sort of a concrete you know here is how you use the extensions map but I think it's pretty straightforward and pretty obvious how you would do that um unless there's any objection I'm going to go close that uh after the meeting today uh and then the last then the other the earliest oldest one is Matrix extensible events um which no longer seems particularly relevant um Travis I don't know if you want to speak in favor of preserving this or some aspect of this for uh for any reason uh I think if we do want to maintain it then we'll either open another issue or pursue it via the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "list okay all right so you're okay if I close this issue for now and you can add something else uh yeah I think that's probably fine for now okay okay great um all right so I'm just going to bring up one more issue here so in the context of working on Mimi protocol um you know we we we I did a PR for abuse I did a PR for you know a bunch of other things and um we ended up with using an implicit a message ID which is derived from the hash of the cyppher text of the MLS message um and we already know that we're using this message ID inside of the Mimi content format to refer to other messages extensively and in some cases a client is going to be receiving a me it might receive a reply for example which refers to a a message ID of the original message which occurred before the receiver was a member of the group um so this this means that uh already we have you know I I was a little bit uncomfortable with this because of that um but for Abuse Prevention and in the case where you know I think uh there are a number of people who want to be able to share history at least among different clients of the same user in a consensual way um the decrypted message that you know that we may have a content of the descripted message but not have the contents of the cipher text and so there's no independent way to verify the message ID um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "so we can we can go forward with this and just take the assertion in these two cases um and require that for abuse pre uh prevention that somebody is keeping the cipher text of a message that they that they're going to report or that assume that the Hub has the cipher text around somewhere um so just wondering if anybody wants to comment on this um you know the the I I will mention the old solution no the solution that had been in the 02 draft I think was1 draft it was that the client basically chooses a uu ID and it exposes the message ID in the MLS additional authenticated data of the private message and so the provider would have the copy of the message ad um this could be you know this could be a even encrypted or ausc in some way uh but basically the clients would be responsible for detecting duplicate message IDs among the messages that they received and the Hub provider could reject messages with duplicate message IDs but would not be required to um now in some ways this is not as strong as using the a hash or the cyppher text um but it did offer a lot of um it it did offer the sort of binding of the of the inside of the message and the outside of the message um I think my main concern here is if we do message franking that we need to be able to Frank the message adid um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "I was yeah Richard Richard and I had some conversations about this unfortunately he's not available today um uh I don't know maybe Conrad or Rafael maybe one of you would like to if you have some comment about about this um I don't have a strong opinion but I think it might be mature to design something that might be helpful for history sharing because that's a you know that's a different set of uh problems we should look at uh and we might come up with an entirely different solution it has nothing to do with that um so yeah that's what I want to say for the little premature to keep something around just because it might be needed for something else okay and regarding uh regarding uh Abuse Prevention do you have any concerns there I think that falls into the same category in the sense that that needs a holistic approach potentially more comprehensive one um you know like message franking or something similar and then that should Define what we need here okay but this is not a full spec for any sort of message franking at this point it's just a bit you know it's a handwavy proposal on how this could potentially be useful for message ranking so I think it's it's not a great thing to uh keep it just because of that yeah so I wasn't actually proposing that we make a change to the to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "document at the moment uh I was more just trying to leave this uh make this as a you know we might there is a possibility that we may need to reopen this in the future if we just if we figure out that we don't have a better way of of dealing with this problem when we address abuse and if we ever address history sharing okay uh would anyone like to make any other comments about uh the content format if if not I think we're we're basically ready to you know kind of stick it on the stick it on the back burner until we until Mimi protocol is a little bit further done and then I think we'd be ready for working group last call at that point okay um I'm ready to hand over to someone who wants to talk about metadata I did prepare one slide with um so does anybody want to like the floor is open if anybody wants to talk about metadata privacy I I'm happy to to like read my one slide and then leave it up and let other people talk about it uh Conrad y sure okay um so um Richard wrote up uh basically a summary of the handshake metadata issues uh like what the different what our different options were ranging from no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "protection through um like a pseudonym based protection so no protection obviously has no protection pseudonym based uh means that the Hub and followers can all see the number of clients from each provider uh and that the Hub can enforce policy based on um oh sorry yeah the Hub can enforce policy based on um based on the pseudonym user identities uh um in the no sorry about the real time editing here okay uh in the uh third case we have uh commits or we have handshake messages sent with private message and so they're encrypted only for members but then also a separate copy sent and encrypted to the hub um The Hub uh would see the number of clients from each provider uh but the followers do not they just know they they only know the name of the Hub provider uh The Hub could then still also enforce policy based on the pseudonym user identities and then finally uh um members being able to support um only private only being able to to be allowed to only send private messages and in this case The Hub has no information whatsoever and hub has no ability to do policy enforcement um so basically I think we have number the second one here is more or less what is in the draft right now um the the fourth one is what Brendan has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "proposed um that this is that the clients be able to do this with his proposal and three has come up on the list as a few people have come come up in favor of this um and that I did one PR that describes a way to do this which I basically don't like and I have another proposal which I just a proposal for an MLs extension which I just submitted this morning um for how to do the third one so I'm going to hand over to Conrad okay um I haven't really prepared anything so I'm just trying to moderate I guess um so maybe one question Rohan with regard to your slide do I understand correctly the third Point commit sent with private message SE encrypted separately to HUB that's uh that's based on the pseudonyms right so it's still the pseudonym approach except that we're using Cipher texts with the with the kind of with the private part accessible to the hub with plant accessible to the hub is that correct hello hello can am I am I audible here or is this uh yeah you're audible okay okay yeah sorry Conrad I missed briefly a little glitch uh no worries no worries um yeah so so just to repeat the third Point uh that's kind of on top of the sudum based approach right so this is not meant to still use three ID entities correct yeah so I mean I think we've we've discussed the the difference the different approaches and I hope everyone has a rough idea of um how they work I guess I think Brandon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "correct me if I'm wrong you still wanted to send an ID with some more details on your crypto anic messages approach uh yeah I do still intend to do that wrate an ID basically with um that proposal written more explicitly basically in a way that it could actually be implemented right okay because from what I remember in the last discussion there were still a couple of question questions there and but I think ultimately it comes down to um what what kind of functional um kind of drawbacks we're prepared to uh have um like what kind of what what kind of cost are we willing to pay for this metadata protection in terms of uh functional impairments yeah Brandon so one question that does come to mind U for me reading this is it says that the Hub can do no policy enforcement but I don't think that's totally accurate because the Hub can do policy enforcement it can restrict who can access the group in terms of its own local users so the Hub can restrict which of its own local users can access the group and also followers follower servers can also do that same thing where they can only restrict which of their own follow which of their own local users can access the group and then the Hub can also restrict which followers can access the group um so if we don't trust follower servers to do this kind of Access Control properly themselves why would we trust follower servers to not create a bunch of fake pseudonyms like why are we trusting followers to to manage the pseudonyms correctly if we don't trust them to do access control I guess is my question does that make sense yeah makes sense I guess the question is then what kind of what kind of uh policy control do we still expect and if we want to hide metadata from The"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Hub and from the potentially from the followers as well Rowan oh sorry uh Alyssa was ahead in the in the okay yeah sorry um yeah just a question back for Brendan isn't what you said true for all of these uh scenarios though well so if you every case where're expecting that the Hub can enforce on its that each server can enforce on its own users right but there's a separation between what we're talking about here which is either pseudonyms or encrypted handshake messages and with the draft currently does which is it has uh unencrypted handshake messages so if you have unencrypted handshake messages you can see like a real user identity and you can like see this is a real person um versus if you have pseudonyms you know I could create a thousand fake pseudonyms and you would have no clue who is actually behind that or if it's one user or if it's a thousand users that's essentially the question sorry I I I'm not really getting your your distinction here Brendan basically with all with all four of these approaches a a server that is not the Hub could they could assert whatever identity they want because it's in their domain so if I assert a real identity or a pseudonym it it seems seems kind of orthogonal but what we're saying in this in the case of you know the draft the Mimi protocol Draft today says makes a recommendation of using per group pseudonyms so if you use a per group unique pseudonym um then what is the you're you're you can you're saying this is you know I I have an identity on this on this provider and we can verify that that's true and then we have ways"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "of also inside of the member inside of the membership of the group being able to reveal the actual real user identity optionally at the at the members option so what what is the problem that you're concerned about about the follower being able to craft additional pseudonyms so if you think about like a reputation based kind of management or like a reputation based um abuse mitigation system like you have with email where I'm like brand in@ gmail.com if I go to any other email server it's always PR gmail.com everybody can see that so if I start spamming people servers that aren't Gmail can basically Blacklist me and say Bron is a spammer don't let him send emails to you but whether we do pseudonyms or Inc to handshake messages in both cases you lose that reputation based system where uh The Hub server has to interact with users from follower servers but also the Hub server is denied knowing who those users are which is the concern so you're saying it makes no difference which of these four approaches we take all of them like if you use pseudonyms at all all of them suffer from the lack of reputation of of being able to use a traditional reputation system that that naively uses the name of the pseudonym to see if you're if you have a particular reputation well if you use pseudonyms or incr handic messages in both of those cases reputation wouldn't work to to prevent abuse but if you use unencrypted handic messages and no pseudonyms then you could do that you could okay but I think I think what we're interested in right now is whether we're you know we've got nobody is seriously proposing going with solution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "one and so we have proposals for solution two three and four and there's no difference between the reputation that the possibility of doing abuse management using the same scheme with option 23 and four is that correct yeah that's correct um which is where my question comes from what's the value of having the per group The per group pseudonym if it can't be used to mitigate abuse that way okay so the there is a combination so one of the things that you can do with pseudonyms is um many of the uses of Enterprise Federation and of dma style you know consumer to somebody Federation they have have uh they have slas and they have they have specific rules about things like spam and so saying that uh if you have a pseudonym you cannot offer you know you you have a certain amount of rate limiting or you need to use a privacy pass style scheme with real so that real users can only get a certain number of PMS or you need to have you know some way for the local Prov to be able to banish uh people who do you know sort of extreme versions of abuse that they need to be able to revoke the ability to use other pseudonyms of the same real user there are a variety of of approaches there are probably half a dozen of them so I the fact that you cannot use the naive way of doing it does not mean that there's not a way to solve that problem uh in the Agate in the overall"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "system okay Rafel um yeah actually Ron you just said all the things that I was about to say so I it's um we're painting a bit too dark a picture if we say that reputation systems don't work anymore just because we don't have real identities uh on our end we've been exploring privacy path quite a lot uh trying to come up with a way uh to make that work obviously there could be other approaches but it's certainly helpful to look at one in depth um just to convince ourselves that you know if that works then probably others will work as well um so yeah I'm by far not as pessimistic it's just that the reputation based systems will have to have some privacy baked in that's all it is and I mean obviously there's always you probably always lose little bit if you you know say goodbye to real identities but it you know if it's not too much then um that shouldn't affect operations too much either okay and I think I just want to reiterate I had the same thought as ran as well initially that uh there is a way at least in the approach we thought of in terms of pseudonyms to reveal to the hub or two followers uh who is behind a given pseudonym and then you can sanction that person kick it off the group or what what have you prevented from further sending messages I mean you could do that on the client side as well which you can do in in approach 4 but uh then the message is already sent and delivered and come through the whole network so so yeah um I think I think it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "Remains the fact that there's more there are more options for the Hub to do things if it can at least see pseudonyms one way or the other um and so yeah um I would propose at some point we just need to make a decision I mean I think we already somewhat landed on the idea that we want a like an full metadata mode where it's just public hand check messages and we want a metadata protected mode and then it's just a question do we want one metadata protected mode probably maybe we could also have two I guess but then uh it depends on how much of the rest of the protocol we have to change to accommodate that uh that mode um or if we could more or less like use the same uh structures and the same architecture for the metadata predictive mode um again another thing to consider if we want to make a decision here so my proposal would be to wait for brenan's ID and then figure out the what exactly that entails in terms of changes to the rest of the kind of Mimi architecture and uh the functionality we have to change or live without if we want to use that particular flavor of made a predicted mode um I think that's all the thoughts I have at least for the moment Roan yeah yeah uh I mean I was just going to say I mean I think if we have if we go with this fourth you know member if members can use private message in a way that the Hub gets no information about what's in a commit or a handshake I just think that we we are going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "lose uh we're we're we're going to have to we're going to have to come up with a whole new mechanism for how we do almost everything in Mimi and I think it's unlikely that it's going to get deployed in with big networks either existing consumer or uh existing Enterprise Networks because of their legal requirements um and I think we need to offer you know either like basically offering either two or three I think is going to be essential for for for deployed networks to be able to go and Implement Mimi um so you know I I don't I don't know that this is going to be too I I I don't see like in terms of the Privacy benefit between three and four I don't see a huge privacy benefit there and I see a huge amount of additional complexity I just wanted to ask groan um what are the mechanisms in Mimi that would need to be reworked and also what are the the legal requirements that are concerning to you in terms of number four yeah um I think the so the the legal requirements of like know the know your customer um and being uh being able to do um like if someone is banished from a particular group being able to support that feature uh that I think that that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "considered an essential requirement by uh in the consumer space and that it's often someone like a user gets banished from a from a a groom and then they're basically on a very short leash and then if they misbehave again then they can be their account can be deleted or they can you know be they can be suspended or whatever but there's there's often a range of different abuse mitigation uh options and so if the Hub doesn't know which user which pseudonym is in a particular group then it has no you know no recourse no ability to to ban somebody if they don't know who's there but they do have the ability to ban when we use pseudonyms because you can ban the pseudonym yeah I mean you can ban the pseudonym and in the me in the mechanisms that that we discussed like if you have a if the local provider has a mapping between pseudonyms and and real user anywhere uh even if it's a you know in case of like Brak glass in case of emergency style um then the uh all the pseudonyms associated with the real user can then be hunted down and like removed from the group or they can be suspended or deleted or you know the forwarding stopped for them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "what have you the forwarding can be stopped also in a variety of other ways that don't require that backwards mapping but it sounds like in this argument we are still needing to trust the follower server to give that map of pseudonyms or to give the correct map of pseudonyms to a real user so if the Hub wants to ban someone from every group that they're in we have to trust the follower to the follower server to give the correct list of pseudonyms that correspond to the user in every group is that right so the part of the part of the SLA between you know when when doing peering is often you have to follow policies where you have the ability to do something like this and if you if you don't have the ability to do that or you or it's found out that you are breaking the rules then the recourse is to prevent them from ever peering with you again so that's pretty that's pretty common I guess it's not clear to me why the agreement couldn't go the other way where I could tell a follower server as a hub that I don't want this user in any groups U that I host ever again and the agreement couldn't be that the follower server has to enforce that um I mean if you could write something up to describe that I I'm I'm not quite seeing how that would work maybe you could elaborate in sentences right so right now what you're saying is that we have to trust the follower to give us the correct pseudonyms for um we have to we have to trust the follower server to give us all of the pseudonyms that correspond to some real user that they don't want on their service anymore not give us that if if we yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "like if I say like the The Hub doesn't need to receive a list of pseudonyms from the F from the local from that that user's local provider but then how does banishing the user from the service work so the The Hub would tell the pro the provider in the case of so like if it was just a single pseudonym right the they would tell the local provider this pseudonym did something did something you know that cause me to to do the following action on my service and this is what I am expecting of your provider with respect to this this pseudonym and any and any pseudonyms associated with this actual user okay that makes more sense thank you just wanted to highlight um since we are talking about since there is a apparently a restriction in terms of what you can do in terms of policy enforcement oh sorry listen you're probably going to say exact same thing oh um I don't know but we yeah so I was sitting there maybe thinking the same thing as you Conrad um I think wherever we land with this in the um in the protocol itself I think we definitely need like an articulation of all of the of the typical admin actions and how we envision them working um under the metadata protective scenario so like you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "know ban kick block report like all of these different things that regardless of exactly what we think any particular provider's um requirements are going to be we sort of expect that if these are features that are commonly offered today in a non-interoperable scenario that um various actors who may adopt meimi will want to be able to support them in the interoperable scenario like how are how are each of those going to work um under the the metadata protective um uh situation so I think that's something we are going to need even whether that's to sus out this conversation or like in the ultimate instance after we've made a decision um but I think we definitely need that okay so this might be uh interesting to compile at least as for the pseudonim based front I can volunteer to uh yeah elaborate how or if any of these things can be done uh on um yeah can be done in terms of policy enforcement or uh at the VAR under which assumptions for example under the assumption that the provider sorry the follower provider knows the group membership of each of the users or has a pseudonym mapping or you know in case of emergency break class kind of mapping as Ron said so um that I can do um and then I think uh mostly the key piece missing would be uh the ID on the encrypted haic messages and then I would propose we postpone for the next this discussion to the next time since then we hopefully have more more information um is there anything else that people would find useful to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "until then besides this forementioned list of things that can be done with the different approaches so just one more comment on that which is I also think to the extent that there's a different enforcement model for an Enterprise case versus the consumer case it would be useful to talk about that as well so the kind of thing that Rowan was talking about where you use the bulk uh statistics about pseudonyms uh as one prong in your enforcement policy between the Hub and the follower Server Like that's something that might only be feasible in an Enterprise case um it would be good to tease that out for each of the different admin functions that we think we want to be able to support okay sounds good anything else okay um I can jump in or Tim I don't know if you want to summarize no you go ahead okay so um uh thanks everybody this was a good discussion we have another interim in two weeks which I think might also be a little bit lightly attended I will not be there I know I will be on vacation um but uh it sounded like there were some folks who would still be available for that one and I think if we have the new draft um from Brendan by that point then that definitely makes sense as a discussion topic we can continue this discussion um if not I think we might be a little bit light on agenda topics unless the dis the team Discovery has anything new by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "then um so I think we're a little bit up in the air about whether we will actually go forward with the July 3 interim um beyond that we have we do have an interim scheduled the week prior to the ietf I think on July 17th um which we can certainly use or cancel if people will be in transit but it's the Wednesday before so um we we can kind of sus that out as it gets closer but if people have very strong feelings about having those inter rooms or not having them please speak up okay I think we are done thanks everybody thanks"
  }
]
