[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:10",
    "text": "welcome to RTC web at IETF 100 as you may have noticed one of our chairs is electric fluffy over here on the right hand side participating by amigo if Shawn were here instead of giving you this nice welcome he\u0027d have given you this one I just want to let you know aren\u0027t you happy you didn\u0027t have this one enacted in front of the room okay hands up who\u0027s seen the note well slide already this week all right there are three of you behind Xavier Maru who did not raise their hand so I\u0027m gonna walk back we take this stuff seriously alright this is our agenda first we need to collect scribes and minute takers then we\u0027ll switch to a short item from Magnus and we\u0027ll go into these security documents then we\u0027ll go into RTC web transport there is one issue the Peter Thatcher assent to some slides bad we have an issue on the FEC Draft and then we will look for all other business so first jabber scribe this is somebody who will relay into the jabber such important information as slide number and will take from the jabber such important information as anything preceded by an EM IC : really you need to be able to parse a string people who can do it now what oh thank you very much mr. Jonathan Lennox yes you don\u0027t have to do anything except slide number all right then just parse for mic : and relay if need be so I still don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:13",
    "text": "see we still have my electric co-chair but we don\u0027t have my other co-chair yet so um we have a moment to find somebody who would like to add as a minute taker so you will recall that in the past we\u0027ve had our minutes taken in the form of memes haiku and simple statements like we decided to do X really we decided to do X is about all you need to do we don\u0027t need he sheds he shed he said she said thank you or anything like detailed because we have the lovely recording from Medeco to remind us of whatever shenanigans we got up to but I do need an official minute taker because I have to write that down in some place so please at least put up your hand and pretend you\u0027re gonna take minutes for me because that would be very nice then thank you so much for pretending to take this really if you could like just write if we come to any decisions that would be very nice of you thank you very much so that brings us to the previously unanticipated portion of our meeting Magnus leap up come to the pink box or I can take not if you want Collin to see you come to the pink part so my name is Ruslan um I just want to you inform people here that which hasn\u0027t been particularly clear yet but we have found some issues around minor mostly around simulcast and rid it\u0027s gonna be discussed in the music meeting tomorrow watch day I\u0027m using mailing lists because those issues just gonna be on the mailing lists as soon as I\u0027ve finished typing them up which hopefully is before the end of this session so but yes they\u0027re gonna be issues that those interests in simulcast probably should participate in so welcome to music tomorrow afternoon thank you very much Magnus and now a brief moment of working group status performed by Shawn in in the method of interpretive dance given this particular slide maybe not we have this cluster i searched google for cluster and means and this was the cleanest one that came back probably by a very long chalk okay so we have these drops that are they\u0027re kind of chilling waiting and there\u0027s more gonna give him there these are just are drops by the way protocols good art speed just create a OPM is awesome transport or took a little bit later about an overview is there now thank you very much Harold for coming back I knew that when he left on sabbatical that we were still going to be talking about this when he came back unfortunately next that\u0027s the rest of it thanks : if you\u0027re listening remotely to uh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:13",
    "text": "updating slides I appreciate that I looked in Google slides and I was like whoa I can\u0027t repeat what I thought in my head but uh yeah this is it also do not conduct a Google search for what he thought in his head um yeah I can\u0027t wait to get done with this and we probably should warn the arts theatre when it\u0027s kids coming out the ERC editor RFC editor has laid in a supply of antacid and similar medicine we\u0027re not gonna go through this but you can kind of tell that not receive parts are some of these are some other people if if you have any input into anything that\u0027s not getting done and you or you were an author help get that done please exert pressure help the ADEs help us get done that\u0027s really what we\u0027re about one that I should have been out the door a while ago let\u0027s do that next all right Jason great thank you for our authors for getting through this one for the longest time that was the long pole in the tent it no longer is it\u0027s with our ID Adam would you like to speak a little bit about where it is with us are you ready to rock and roll as a ballad date so whoo it\u0027s on the it\u0027s on the tele chat for December 14 so and so for that draft since it\u0027s been so long in the coming and literally it\u0027s a little probably controversial do you think special that we need to do - probably not I gave the isg a heads up that this is like a technically dense draft they might want to take a running start at and I know that some people are taking that to heart okay fair enough all right cool I mean I I think that we have other other people to help in terms of Ben Packer if he gets asked Magnus I\u0027m sure that you could like leave leave it leave a hand we need to get there all right so we need another word last call for our sector Ross we thank you\u0027ve got an update after some other things got cleaned up we\u0027re we went through once they\u0027ve been kind of like lingering around it\u0027s time that after we get done with this to run it again it\u0027s gonna be two weeks where I\u0027m gonna breathe eat it which go for broke please repo like I would like to catch anything we need to now their github repos for both if you think of anything that needs to get changed please throw them in there and these the other ones that are up there FAQ is Bernard here he\u0027s got one outstanding common in the Justin\u0027s repo that I\u0027m hoping that we could figure out I did send him an email that I was gonna embarrass him at the microphone if he was here or remote he\u0027s not we will try to figure that out because Justin basically is like hey give me some feedback and I haven\u0027t heard anything so I\u0027d like to make sure we can get to that point I be handling is going to go essentially wet we\u0027re glass calls after the security drops because they\u0027re kind of grouped together we\u0027ve fought and presented a lot of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:14",
    "text": "slides about that particular graph I think we can get there and the STP examples were updated recently and I think that\u0027ll be it\u0027s also an equally technical technically dense draft and I think that I thank the people that did reviews of that and thanks whoever do that so that\u0027s it\u0027s not blocking correct so that\u0027s like it\u0027s probably gonna go last so but is is a good draft pretty dense if you\u0027re implementing that\u0027s great I\u0027ll help what um I don\u0027t know sue us I think see us see what so here\u0027s the thing when we did this with J SEP like we found a lot of problems with the handwritten examples the few hundreds MJ SEP so I have like no confidence whatsoever that anybody human can write STP so I I have to believe that he didn\u0027t do this by hand I have to think that he took output so we get we can ask me I I think that\u0027s a s I would Helen I believe you\u0027re a co-author on the strap would you mind letting us know he\u0027s there at get in the queue man then that\u0027s not we can\u0027t put it that way hey pac-man pac-man hey that\u0027s so exciting I could talk I explained that you know yeah some scripts were used here and there but basically these are hand generated SPP and have the type of errors the hand generated st p e-- there may not have the i will say my experience with machine generated s dt is just as bad so yay for SD p yeah i you know i mean i\u0027m sure there will probably I mean with these guns you\u0027re quite a bit of review and I\u0027m sure there have mistakes in them I think there\u0027s really declining returns and getting them perfect I think it would be better to to get them than done and then try and figure and this is clearly with my individual contributor had on and and if we find mistakes in them go go fix well I guess my question is isn\u0027t in fact work publishing a document which like the whole point of examples is the right and if like if there\u0027s full of mistakes then I\u0027m not sure proportions are not full of mistakes they are they are probably less full up they they have a low number of mistakes so I\u0027m not saying there\u0027s no mistake in them but most of the mistakes are in them will be like some incredibly weird little thing of like oh well you know I did a fire like wasn\u0027t before you know it wasn\u0027t correct for what people were supposed to do so I don\u0027t like like we\u0027ve run these through various parsers we\u0027ve done various things with them I mean you know there was a recent typo made in the most recent updates that we\u0027re done but like they\u0027re pretty good okay since these are not blocking I suggest that we put off the further "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:15",
    "text": "discussion I see that until later one more it Karen do you have a tool for picking picking the STP out of the draft at all all this channel speaking no we don\u0027t that that that\u0027s been discussed various times there is right now the reason is I want to make test cases for the website for them yeah I mean look I\u0027m glad to help work on on that type of stuff I\u0027ve helped do those but not if this documents not going anywhere so if when this document is moving forward then yes I\u0027ll be happy to figure out how to extract the data out of it and test and put it into the test website but if we\u0027re not publishing it I don\u0027t care no one else cares I don\u0027t care I guess that\u0027s pretty much where everyone is on this one my name is Westland so in the end music discussion around simulcast and then what we had privately and it mode sanity he\u0027s we you have to look at if they actually should be better simulcast examples in in this document so that might be in a additions that needs are going yeah and happy to do that or do simulcast a separate document I I don\u0027t you know I don\u0027t we we need to figure that out either way can work let\u0027s figure this out and see what we do with it but yeah it should be I mean we need any way to put good examples in the or better examples of India simulcast document itself so probably I write something up so hopefully we can combine it in a nice way so you can actually put them together etc so they get a complete example in in this document the artists he whipped it on Mozilla given that I reviewed and I had like lots of difficulties parsing the simulcast examples in there I think that speaks to words like a separate document okay there are a couple more slides here that deal with where dependencies are but given that we\u0027re running a little bit behind we\u0027re just gonna go ahead and encourage you to read those from the proceedings and we\u0027re going to go onto security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:16",
    "text": "this this should be pretty short as only got four slides and that was one of them so now J Sepp is pretty much done and you know I don\u0027t think else to do my time I finally got around to working on this a little bit with much help Richard Barnes actually almost all the changes we\u0027ve seen the last job in this traffic Barnes or other people but I did push the publish button so Terry we are next slide so the security document that main sort of the overview document um has basically had trivial changes I think a certain abstract courtesy of Sean my citation darts to IP handling there now no more github issues or pull requests so I think this is a complete thing and we should be like stripping out of the door as is Captain Kirk should note that we\u0027re going to work in group last call the means SEC draft but seeing no objection ask unanimous consent to proceed okay next slide so sorry our document is not quite in as good shape but actually not too terrible largely it\u0027s sort of suffered from a bunch of neglect and other things moving on behind us so um everybody seems to kind of decide if we\u0027re going to get user media to secure origins so we\u0027re I made that change this is actually a topic which I had pointed out which I discuss now so all the browser\u0027s I believe are kind of converging on this but if somebody objects to this now is the time to raise an objection and say we should not do that okay then seeing none I mean other than debug most of the like this is just for you know normal conformity I mean you know if you said like oh but all these browsers are full of flies like like you sent ridiculous things that\u0027s not like yeah in fact if you look at the way this gets implemented its using the the w3c secure context spec which has some affordances for debug modes and localhost and things like that yeah okay um there used to be this API requirement that um so as people we know uh some browsers um like basically make all gate using media on permissions permanent and some of them have like an ability ephemeral we initially had this text that said you required like have an affordance in the API that would say I want this ephemeral on with this permanent that never made it into spec um I something was an okay idea but um it didn\u0027t happen and chrome and in chrome doesn\u0027t like doesn\u0027t have a ephemeral at all so so it doesn\u0027t seem like that\u0027s gonna be a requirement that anybody leaves in so I removed it um there have been a bunch of you know when I wrote the text or Martin into the camera at this point about screen sharing versions um there\u0027s a bunch of wrappers around that about how we know consensus on it and the reason we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:16",
    "text": "consensus cuz the outcome was so terrible um the outcome isn\u0027t any better but apparently apparently people to decided to live with it so um so Firefox and I think chrome like just basically screw Firefox now has like a big scary warning when you\u0027re on screen sharing a screen warning you can understand but still we asked you to understand it um and I think Chrome has like an add-on still what I\u0027m sure they\u0027re gonna move just carry warning sometime eventually because like I saw Intolerable add now on um so anyway this is the resolutions those what it is which is basically the socks that we\u0027re sorry about that um so I just rue the open issue warnings um okay um actually say I mean Richard once again so what\u0027s gonna like you know keep doing that so um we um there we\u0027ve cleaned up the SRS PPP requirements a bit um and there was this there was a bunch of crap in the text and the text from like before we ban des des that we\u0027re like you know there should be interface elements to tell you if you\u0027re doing as des but since you can\u0027t be doing is des then this interface elements are relevant and so we remove that on and a bunch of and stuff like um browser ID examples in the appendix and stuff iPad since we\u0027re no longer doing browser ID and pretty much nobody is I think we can assume that those examples are not helpful so they went away to UM why we\u0027re getting in character so Martin Thompson I I would wonder whether or not it\u0027s actually interoperable given the amount that people use it so maybe it\u0027s just a good idea to ban it just because but if people feel strong the other reason that I\u0027m aware of for for banning it that was your PR did this not other Richard yeah but I think MK is not really defined for use with DTLS SRTP anyway so there is I think there is a crappy way to specify it yeah so it\u0027s like kind of if it\u0027s specified it\u0027s kind of halfway specified and so it\u0027s just just seem cleaner not say ok here well someone really wants it and it\u0027s in to the degree that perk will ever get implemented the stuff it works perk works a little better without em ok so I\u0027m gonna leave this as it is unless somebody yeah now we did any kid here whatsoever so by ban I think that in particular you can see isn\u0027t compatible with them okay I so so good reason so it\u0027s a perk needs ekt so if we\u0027re gonna do protect this thing we can\u0027t that make it just to double check by ban you do or do not mean must not let\u0027s not negotiate okay and then there are still on the PI think there are 11 github issues lash PRS I think I only put the issues up here I tagged them other couple PRS baby they were straightforward and then there are a bunch of issues um half of them I think I can resolve myself with any help so I was did not present discussed them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:17",
    "text": "the remainder we could probably discuss for a little bit Sean you can hold up Issac cleverly typed him for you so it\u0027s really obvious now I cautioned that I have had very low coffee and I not read these at some times so we\u0027re gonna it\u0027s they say but we\u0027ll just take a look as they go um sister files yes I know and some of them may be okay but I was like doing TL off slide say this is what you get issue just drag it to the other window there you go okay so if you click on if you if you do milestones I believe and you click on i-80 f-100 there you go okay let\u0027s see we come as well start at the top attorney the IDP URI let\u0027s take a look yeah so some on Tom\u0027s and I think this is just editorial you don\u0027t include the fine you don\u0027t include identity dot example calm in the yeah just deny it forever man you know doesn\u0027t need to do anything you don\u0027t include identity in the example but Soros also points out that you have the redirect question and might that might benefit from a a little bit of text but I think you can sort this one out yourself okay yeah I can make sense of this it\u0027s right here so huh yes it is correct that it can be redirected there are rules about what redirections are permitted but it is correct that it can be redirected okay so can we note that for issuing it can we know for issue 43 some editorial Corrections will be entered yeah be great okay again same applies here I think we just need to have text about port numbers where they go or do they go presumably in the domain field yeah with a colon yeah fair enough okay yeah no no this is the question I mean presumably they were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:19",
    "text": "allowed Firefox allows them I mean the promises it\u0027s not it\u0027s not a I mean it\u0027s not there\u0027s no there\u0027s the same-origin no I guess no it\u0027s not you\u0027re right but you\u0027re not the same origin it\u0027s a cryptographic yeah yeah yeah it\u0027s the same Authority maybe yeah we could say that they\u0027re not but I don\u0027t actually see a point well I think I think if we\u0027re gonna say the atte is allowed we should point out that cracker there\u0027s no way to distinguish at the TLS layer which which port you\u0027re getting I think we should make that point anyway yes okay can says this so change back to the web pique I think right so the relevant point is that the certificate all right that the that yes you can have a domain need a port number in this field but that one that port number cannot be verified cryptographically it\u0027s just a bare assertion you know one you can verify the Dominion yes but that you put it off the warranty doesn\u0027t that you can\u0027t distinguish it that\u0027s right there\u0027s no practical ability to distinguish between 443 and 8000 yeah so for the issue notes please note that this actually also affects the section entitled sorry nevermind I\u0027ll just write a pull request okay great thanks : okay next slide our next issue write multiple identity attributes I think this is just like I need a resident crop this is again yeah you just need to write some crap so Thompson again I would say that the the answer here is that if you have multiples then anything goes currently I believe that you should probably just say only put one end yeah I think we should say you should only put one in but if they\u0027re multiples are jointly asserted that\u0027s the way it is yes and there\u0027s no expectation that any implementation would consume all of them yeah that\u0027s okay so same three points are one you should only put one in to the semantics are undefined if you put in more than one and um so three implementations need only process one thanks Richard three implementations new only process one of them yeah let\u0027s let\u0027s get old post lol okay good next one I\u0027m really hoping to like be out of here in five minutes or so um thanks Kellan okay did we do this already possibly there may be a PR on this one so this is actually in the in the web RTC doc and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:21",
    "text": "not be necessary for us to do anything spy oh well I will figure out what this exists or not and if not plagiarize or 10.4 pointers then or when I again when I say I\u0027m you Richard but um we\u0027re all the same person all three of us the three Richard\u0027s okay this actually might be meaningful this is really we said if it is M City for God why did that rather optimistically yeah 57 64 allows the same and shaked key multiple essentially components and thanks Magnus there\u0027s probably the correct correct word we should just say don\u0027t oh yeah I\u0027m saying city might be surprised if Joseph doesn\u0027t already so we\u0027ve had to be privy non marks anyway cell right so - Westland the reason why I mean you only would need one day Tillis for a whole octopus session because the key derivation step results in separate keys for RTP and rtcp yeah I agree so special I just think it\u0027s very hard to implement a mold to have had multiple multiple transport components and one details connection is like hard to implement and we didn\u0027t do it that way there\u0027s no question that 57 64 and 37:11 are actually correct on this and they have the ability to have the same route king material derive properly independent keys for SRTP and s rtcp but why would you do that and that\u0027s how much works right it\u0027s either the problem the problem is it I mean I mean mocks basically what I mean MUX just replicates a situation all one five tuple right I just think it\u0027s not like as a practical matter I\u0027m not aware any implementation which tries to do that for more than more than fight - oh okay yeah okay I feel like we\u0027re done now oh no Ronnie the microphone I can think of an idea where you want the artistically different than the RTP if you want the rtcp to be available for middle box and they\u0027ll have the keys just for the RTC people oh yeah weird in that case you would need a different GPS connection there\u0027s a non MUX right and that\u0027s really reasonable okay that\u0027s it yeah I conclude like advantage those myself if anyone wants to I mean if you want to yes under my sage guidance thank God "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:43",
    "text": "so these slides came from Peter Thatcher well I do not see in the room or in the VTEC Oh Harold for some reason your smiling faces on the slides when I look at them through Google Docs by any chance would you like to go through them so I haven\u0027t actually read through the slides so so the point of this is that Peter Thatcher had pointed out to him rather forcefully by someone actually trying to shape products that they didn\u0027t know what would happen if they turned on these DHCP markings so they would drag like to make that an experiment but if using the prior to model and they started diddling with the DGP markings they also build the the queueing priority well that isn\u0027t implemented either but still I felt that this was not right so they wanted to controls not one because even though it mostly makes sense to have those those be the same for experimentation purposes they\u0027re not okay next side yeah yeah that I\u0027ll proofread the full request before accepting it yep so this is this is this is the why I didn\u0027t know that was next Lancer is there a fourth right yep okay the key point about this presentation is that this draft is currently in the RFC editors queue making these changes means we\u0027re pulling it back I think that\u0027s okay because we have cluster 238 meaning we\u0027re not speeding stuff up but we\u0027re not slowing stuff down but this does mean incorporating this change means we have to pull the crank to redo a targeted working group last call on this particular change and and we\u0027re gonna require our a our Adi can tell us whether or not we\u0027re supposed to do an ITF last call as well targeted just on these particular changes my theory is that we can do a targeted one and it\u0027ll be fine because cluster 238 go anywhere and yes Adam this is the second one so beyond that point understand that if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:44",
    "text": "you\u0027ve already got code that uses the single parameter in the way it\u0027s currently described it will suddenly be turning up as two parameters if we approve this because the change to the w3c API will occur so if you\u0027ve got a a working implementation that does it this way and you don\u0027t want to change it now would be an awfully good time to explain what I think we can tweak the web RTC PR to deal with that but that\u0027s the way work to see matter so I\u0027m I\u0027m gonna have to look at this more carefully I I don\u0027t have any context for what happened here but in terms of 2:38 there\u0027s actually the stuff in front of WebRTC there\u0027s like twelve documents and most of them are like really close to being done there\u0027s not as much in the way of publishing these you\u0027re implying but like I said I haven\u0027t time to look at this and so I can\u0027t even really speak to it all that well Colin do you want to speak to this I\u0027m not speaking to whether this is a good idea or a bad idea but I\u0027m speaking to what it what the change is is right now the transport document is largely written on you know there\u0027s this one value there\u0027s there\u0027s one one value that can be set to for enum values from low to high and it controls a bunch of things with just some point markings it controls a bunch of other things instead they\u0027re just changing it into two things with the same four enums for both of these things the WebRTC part of it is done in the backwards compatible way where nothing changes from current behavior you know you have to use a new and different API to set these things independently I I think this change is really pretty minimal in the what you need to review or how much what it changes in the document the questions about when you would set these things differently or what it\u0027s useful for become much more complicated as they always are with priority of what you want you know how well users know what to set these differently to and all of those things but the experimentation argument is fine and like this doesn\u0027t stop anyone from doing it the other way so I I don\u0027t I think this is a really minor change I guess is the argument I\u0027m trying to make for so so fluffy I\u0027m I\u0027m wondering whether or not because the transport focuses primarily on the dscp markings and the translations from these priorities to those markings is it possible or somehow finagle this so that we just say in the WebRTC document that we really are talking the the marking priority is the one that actually applies and the other one is just something that\u0027s local because then check the ticket er it\u0027s actually thus that created appear decently okay so that that\u0027s the web RTC PR not the transport PR the transport PR is blitz at the porch okay and the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:45",
    "text": "web RTC PRI I will I will suggest an update to that because of backwards compatibility for the same reason okay ten Hardy from floor might I I think you may have just handled my my issue let me confirm my understanding after your update to the WebRTC PR somebody who uses the currently shipping mechanism will continue to use this mechanism if they do not wish to experiment with having these sets two different priorities is that correct that is my intention okay I have an alternate inthis the suggestion yet okay because that actually makes a pretty basic change to my my view of this because my honest impression is although you might use this in experimentation the number of cases in the wild where you\u0027re gonna have a different internal queue priority and statement to the wire about the config the actual priority for this set of enums you know for low to high is really kind of like yeah you\u0027re gonna experiment with it you\u0027re gonna decide you\u0027re never gonna do it and you\u0027re always going to set them to be the same I\u0027m not willing to stake large sums of money in it but I would bet you a beer so I understand there are cases people are floating around but I\u0027m gonna guess the 90th - 95 percent of the time it\u0027s it\u0027s going to be the same and that the rest of the time it\u0027s gonna make no practical that\u0027s I could be just cynical but if you\u0027re gonna be able to keep the old way of doing things I don\u0027t care so Martin Thompson I think I understand the reason for the two separate markings and and I I think there may be cases where this is important and the the two markings govern the allocation of bits that you can send within your available envelope congestion why not and how fast you want them to get through and so for something like voice maybe you\u0027re not giving him that many bits but maybe you might want to give the video a lot of bits for instance and that\u0027s the sort of trade-off that we\u0027re talking about here I\u0027ll be happy to pay off the beer if you if it actually turns up in the way down that exactly I think the other potential case is you know I don\u0027t trust that any router does dscp right and so I\u0027m just gonna turn it off because I feel like if I turn on any dscp other than setting it to all zeros things will might blow up so I\u0027m not sure I\u0027ll pay off a beer if you if you\u0027ve just not set the dscp to anything but zeros but I see your point - is done so I mean on the mailing list we had the discussion around this issue to some degree and and I not convinced it this kind of use case for example for all the Kodak is that you really set a low bitrate priority it\u0027s yes that you want to cap the bitrate at some given level which in many case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:47",
    "text": "makes more sense in this kind of say okay this is an important stream but when you get into this point don\u0027t give it more bits or actually change the priority that\u0027s kind of an issue here which becomes very complex very fast and but but this is just an enum of four priorities right you\u0027re not Express you\u0027re not expressing the bits in it at any level of granularity right no but I mean if it has its space stuffing the model on I\u0027m basically a scheduling weighted round I mean cue round-robin queuing basically that you say okay you first take the highest rate give them certain amount of bits and then you use one to the next cue etc if you have that model you assign a lot of bits that\u0027s not going to be used by that stream even but if the bits becomes few then you actually wanted them so that means that you need to track the bitrate and change the priority settings for the bit priority when it gets really low otherwise your aquatic will get less than you intended to so I don\u0027t know which you get into some user problems depending on where you are in the envelope so I understand this is I mean finding something which is both giving the flexibility and easy to use it\u0027s actually quite hard I think yourself so after that discussion we need to decide whether or not we\u0027re going to incorporate this change do people feel like they understand that if any wants to get to the microphone and said they don\u0027t get it please do so now so I\u0027m leading up to a hum and I\u0027m putting you on the spot purposely I don\u0027t want you to hum if you don\u0027t get what\u0027s going on I want you to hum also if you get what\u0027s going on so what I would like to do now is hum if you agree with incorporating this change please please home now if you agree with the corporative change please um now if you think this change should not be incorporated so um I\u0027m feeling with this this should not be incorporated at this point that consent I think it\u0027s rough consensus the change should not be incorporated this time Adam do you agree with my assessment ok fairness I\u0027m I think it\u0027s dance yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s what I mean like it\u0027s by rough very rough correct so we\u0027re not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:49",
    "text": "going to do that we\u0027re going to close this poll request and we\u0027re not going to need a an additional group last call and I take less call to incorporate this thank you at this point the only remaining issue that I would like to bring up if anyone would like to say anything is about this feck question I know that Bernards not here I don\u0027t know if anyone else who knows anything about the fact once the say anything one more of those references but I think that\u0027s kind of a minor point right that this is a point that Bernard brought up and we were kind of curious if Bernard had something more to say any doesn\u0027t or hasn\u0027t for a months at this point so my question is at this point what do we do with this I would like to help Justin get done with this particular draft I\u0027m trying to drive consensus purposely um does anyone want to get to the microphone to speak this particular issue or not if if nothing is said I think that we should probably close this and move on I am now opening the floor for you to get to the microphone to go one way or the other on this particular issue or to argue with my way forward uh Ted Hardy I actually think that the point that fluffy made pretty early on is is kind of salient and that\u0027s that opus requires the effect to be sent what you do with the fact once you get it I mean the extent to which to apply it it\u0027s kind of so-so what you\u0027re saying man Tory implement or descend well that\u0027s that\u0027s actually what the opus RFC says if you\u0027re it requires it to be possible to send cards it to be okay I\u0027ll go back and look all right I may have misunderstood so thanks Jonathan yeah don\u0027t Lex I mean you know it\u0027s a tuning parameter for a sender decide whether to turn on effect or not in any given time you know you can say I think this you know I believe that my connection will be perfect I never ever mean disinfect information on the receive side I mean there\u0027s no like negotiation as to whether you support fecund payload format but you\u0027re not I mean the decoder process is not required to use it but you\u0027d be stupid not to if somebody happens to be sending it but you know if that\u0027s a quality of a quality of implementation issue all right calm so I think we\u0027re getting a little bit sidetracked here that we\u0027re reading this too literally I think that Bernards case was using faq it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:51",
    "text": "really very and that using the opus built in fact it\u0027s not really very effective was what their tests found compared to something like flex family so our recommendation would be is the spec should say you know you should not send opus fact and instead you should use one of the more complex spec mechanisms that works better that we\u0027ve defined for WebRTC I suspect that that\u0027s the really where he would be on the underlying issue we keep in there I see this is a quality and implementation type issue I mean there\u0027s nothing stopping any given implementation from doing that today or not doing that today given the late stage in the game I don\u0027t know if this is really important to nail down a specification I don\u0027t see people running to the microphone line to disagree can we document that somehow comb and get this done so that because this is like other than the references like this is the thing that\u0027s stopping this document for being working group last calls so I just want to figure out how to why don\u0027t we why don\u0027t we construct an email to the de Bernard and see if that if a he can live with that and if be it\u0027s it\u0027s you know SUNY consistent with what he was thinking and if he is that I think that you know thinks there\u0027s so much deeper issue the working group needs to deal with we can we can bring this back but now we\u0027re doubt this is a big deal that would that would be the minute taker noting that Colin\u0027s gonna help me write that email thanks Colin okay so that at this point concludes of the working group I would like to point out that I believe that we\u0027ll be setting some working class calls on the security draft the thick draft and the security architecture draft after we incorporate the pull requests and hopefully that means we won\u0027t just be meeting in North America never again will never be meeting again as RTC web that will be kind of awesome so thank you very much so for the security droughts I remind you that they still contained references to s des so it\u0027s been a long time please everybody take a fresh look at those as soon as you possibly can thank you no no not even now they until quite recently yeah I\u0027m I\u0027m saying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:49",
    "text": "when you get a minute yeah but also thanks you "
  }
]