[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "oh thank you hey Julius um while we\u0027re getting ready to get started I see her there could we check your audio real quick to see if we can get that working if you could like step up to the mic if you\u0027re listening huh okay um Julius had audio issues in home [Music] this is the first because it\u0027s the full screen of the screen of the remote person oh and they can slowly go away guys [Music] you\u0027re supposed to have started 1 minute ago it\u0027s kind of a little bit on the third hour side for us don\u0027t break it that\u0027s 348 yes so somebody else touched it okay [Music] yeah but me deco is the problem well it is somebody it should be showing the roads it virtually thing with a little figure so who\u0027s going to jabber and who\u0027s going to take minutes and I don\u0027t mean the type of jabbering you two are doing right now oh there we go okay well we know that that are you willing describe okay it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "through anyone who\u0027s going to take minutes and I can certainly get on and take minute and I see Gabrielle and Gabrielle usually helps take minutes if we can talk to these people [Music] [Music] yeah hello good afternoon my name is Donald Eastlake with Huawei Technologies this is the devil working group meeting so we have scribes I guess pretty much okay there\u0027s a few technical problems can they hear us okay ah okay yes if them mics are turned off and probably no sound those food to remote sites yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s fine yeah so Russ white is not here because he\u0027s in the US was I hope to make it so Arbus arcs up here at the front table they\u0027ll both so this is it here is now okay so yeah well so I guess things are all set ah so it is yeah oh I can I can move forward move "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "backwards okay oh it\u0027s are you second I try using the control okay sorry about that no well you\u0027ve probably seen this before you\u0027re operating under the ietf IPR rule so you see you contribute if you\u0027re aware of IPR and so forth you need to disclose that and it\u0027s basically need to go look at these PCPs to get the full rules need us to say this meeting is being recorded also mr. general oh this is not oh it\u0027s okay I get and document reviews have gotten all the Y\u0027s on reviews if you can please help review the documents in the working group before we go over the document status a little bit more thoroughly than usual this meeting so and if you do that and you have a document that people will probably review your document I did modify this slide to also have something on there reminding people that the boilerplate concerning requirements language capitalized musts insureds and maize and things like that that but language in draft should be updated to refer to RFC 8174 as well as RFC 2119 so I think most of the ones in this working group have been updated like that but it\u0027s possible that they have them all then so this is the proposed agenda where are the beginning to get things set up and over status and milestones the babble information model the yang model which we have plumeria a model changes to the available level DTLS graph recently and the general level protocol status and then to wrap up at the end does anybody have a problem with this agenda I want to add or delete things or change things around okay so document status we have as applicability graft which does have working been generous have working group consensus and I just did a Shepards review of it it\u0027s a very short craft and I didn\u0027t find a typo that was introduced by the update from zero that show three international four so ice posted a message I think as soon as we have that fixed I can request publication for that I guess so for program from this hell I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:18",
    "text": "was going to go look at things a little [Music] but I want her to like display a web page [Music] okay so now I wanted to just go over the status of these documents a bit [Music] so the applicability draft is the only one which has been touched at working group consensus RFC 6120 six bits and the source specific draft are currently in working group last call was been there for a long time and that was kind of holding the 6126 bit so that the security drafts can go through at the same time because that seems like useful to have the M referenced from the 21 2016 6 to 126 bits and they skirty grafts the baby heal us and Mabel H Mac grafts reference the RFC 6120 six bits so that sort of a package so one question is whether people think that these two graphs the VPLS M available H Mac are ready for a working group last call we have an agenda item on the DTLS one so i guess we could talk about that then it\u0027s people have opinions on whether the people H Mac graft is ready for working group last call david\u0027s Knaus e google I think the document is in great shape and in my opinion it is ready for working or basketball are there any other opinions on that draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:21",
    "text": "okay so I\u0027ll probably start working with last call on that later today I plan to do a document Shepherd review of the source specific graft we do have there\u0027s also the information model graft presentation on so we can talk about its status then and there\u0027s a yang model graph which is not absolutely a call for working group adoption that\u0027s also gonna be presented so we can talk about that at that point and since this the way I did this surgery catch is anything with vehicle in it there is a home that graft which is in the RFC atat√ºrk you currently mine miss ref I believe waiting on 61 26 bits so we\u0027re sort of holding up a document in another working group pending getting our main Protocol draft through the Babel each Mac which is a as a typo in it on the slide it\u0027s not H man it\u0027s H Mac but I\u0027ll fix that okay yes it\u0027s been asserted this ready to into have working group last fall down and if that\u0027s incorrect the working group last call should reveal that so to speak and we can fix whatever problems are on yeah so while stones do we have Alex Aman stylings were late on some of them ones but not too bad I think it\u0027s about time we can make more rapid progress on these drafts a lot of them are in in good shape maybe were a month later something on some of these but not too bad that\u0027s all the slides in this deck so I guess the next [Music] PowerPoint this is weird "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:28",
    "text": "oh it\u0027s corn I uploaded a while so the next item on the agenda is the information model oh there\u0027s the huh they just works oh yeah looks good okay I saw this near here and just had to take a picture it\u0027s just like I kill a meter away from here anyway sorry okay so just i\u0027ve sent email to the list before about this but I have moved kind of my working editors draft over onto github and in order to experiment with that and carsten the wonderful person that he is helped to change it from xml to md which actually is much easier for me to edit and of course the there is a lovely HTML rendition and you better get used to this new type of HTML format because as we learned in working group chairs we\u0027re all going to be going over to new HTML formats and things um anyway and over there is also the TR 181 just the babble stuff William in case you\u0027re wondering parts of what I\u0027ve put together from the information model if you\u0027re curious I recommend you go look at it okay so these are the issues that are closed we have introduced the binary data type used for router ID and I\u0027ve got it for the hello Street let\u0027s see we agreed not to change that the version includes the name and implementation get rid of external cost and changed the enable parameters descriptions and then there\u0027s some other changes and I\u0027m not going to bore you with these the Ayana registry for link types I have an issue about that one just because I need people to look at it to see if they like it and we have some other questions on that ok so the open issues please review the Ayana consideration section because I did create a link type registry as we discussed in the last Montreal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:31",
    "text": "face-to-face I did receive a comment from Carsten asking me so why is what why did you make the bullets normative and not the a B and F and so if anyone else has thoughts on this please feel free to mmm and I\u0027ll probably take these issues to the list as well one by one to see if we can get some closure on them now the other question I had in looking at the lovely work Mahesh did was whether we need to go ahead and add more link types now for things like mocha and G dot h and and all sorts of other types nobody\u0027s rushing to say anything okay so I\u0027ll just go through this next open issue is dealing with who is it Julius you wanted [Music] you\u0027re on Julius you better have a vo let\u0027s see this time it\u0027s good no can you hear me can you hear me people on me katako can hear me this is a characteristic Ebonics in general now I have to like put together a kitty and collect money to get him a new machine so he can applaud you okay some people can hear me others come out is that correct I\u0027m sorry Julius we can\u0027t hear you you\u0027re going to have to jabber again [Music] audio before and previous working with meetings when he wasn\u0027t physically present he\u0027s managed to get it to work sometimes this is a frequent occurrence because I mean audio can we hear you oh really Julius says I had to be in favor of adding link types as needed not in bulk as what League types only adding them as needed it\u0027s needed in okay is there any other view does anyone else have an opinion I mean I guess adding them as needed it seems reasonable but if there\u0027s a well aren\u0027t they lucky if you better watch your language "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:32",
    "text": "[Laughter] I wonder if there\u0027s a sound channel that we need to turn up here no because we had this problem actually I think Julius was the only person who tried in home that also so we have no other points oh here\u0027s me let go okay well we\u0027re trying to get Julius fixed I think we can hear you Julius stop laughing and say so yes yes yeah so okay I don\u0027t see why in the implementation we would have any other link types so I\u0027m afraid that you\u0027re trying to export in the information model something that the implementation does not need to know about the details between the different kinds of power a power line Ethernet and so on are just not relevant to the implementation so I\u0027m a little bit cautious about adding so many different link types unless they actually appear as needed from an implementation point of view Mahesh aeternum Donny striding the yang model I don\u0027t know if that would be considered implementation or not but anyway the the model does allow for extensibility of the link types which I guess would be good news but the question of I didn\u0027t quite understand Julius when you said that it\u0027s not the definition of those link types is not relevant for implementation my thought would be that you would the management system at least would need to know what link types are supported by the system for it to be able to configure it on the interfaces but maybe at understand so yeah I think we\u0027re not so right now we have link types in Babel because Babel uses different metrics on different link types okay so Babel is a routing protocol and what it knows about is the information that it needs in order to do routing Babel does not need to know whether what exact kind of interface it is it needs to know whether it\u0027s a tunnel whether it\u0027s a wireless interface or a wired interface so are we here trying to put more information in the information model or in the yang model then Babel "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:34",
    "text": "actually needs to have in order to the proper routing okay I\u0027d be in favor of having the information model reflected Babel already knows and needs to know so let me ask so would it be accurate that if it would result in a different calculation algorithm then we would need a different link type defined yeah exactly David\u0027s Ganassi Google so not a very strong opinion I don\u0027t feel strongly either way but having that information available two things that query it even though it doesn\u0027t impact the bottom protocol isn\u0027t absurd to me so having it in there as an optional thing doesn\u0027t hurt my mind but I really don\u0027t feel strongly about this Mahesh again so if there is no if the link type is not actually used by Bible itself the question in my mind is in the information model we have this parameter that says on this interface this is the link type that is defined so are we suggesting that that\u0027s optional to set and that it\u0027s okay if it\u0027s not set is that B no I think what we\u0027re saying is that there will be a link type associated with every interface but the set of link types that we need to be able to associate with interfaces does not need to be a large set that is we only need to have very gross definition categories of link types rather than really specific understanding of the physical link type in one forum sorry I haven\u0027t read the draft but actually following on from what you just said Barbara I mean when when Julius explained what the link types used for it made me think that what really is maybe needed in the model is not really a link type but some sort of enumeration indicates the you know the input to the algorithm that doesn\u0027t necessarily have to be directly associated with the link type well we also have the metric computation algorithm and to the point about actually needing to know what the specific link type is surely that information is available somewhere in the model on the device I mean it seems to me the actual physical link type is a sort of a layer two concept that probably if it was put explicitly into the the babble information model would actually be duplicate information I mean like you\u0027ve you\u0027ve got an empty you\u0027ve got an interface stack you surely the interface stack one if you\u0027ve got to give an interface you\u0027ve got the information to find out what the physical link type is and that\u0027s probably the right way to find out can I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:37",
    "text": "take this one already I think this one Barbara so actually what is underlying the algorithm or a number of parameters like whether you\u0027re doing link quality estimation whether you\u0027re doing RTD sensitive routing and so on but what we have found is that those are not understandable by the users so we are actually encapsulating a set of Alderon parameters into the link type because that\u0027s something that the users understand so let me summarize um we do use the link type and therefore it\u0027s good to be able to report the link type but the link type is not necessarily the same as the physical link type which since we have a reference to the interface we know the physical nature based on the information the the interface modeling that exists elsewhere so that\u0027s already known in what we really just need is what Babel considers to be this gross high level link type that it associates with this particular interface and so kind of what we have right now with the four enumerated values is good and we should leave it there until we discover we find something else we need yes look he nodded okay and did not off just not it and Julius I have to apologize for having accused you of being the cause of your audio issues I was so wrong that\u0027s okay I can forgive you that okay and I\u0027m gonna take the a B and F question to the list because that kind of came from Carsten who\u0027s not here int yeah so what the current information model thing is too fuzzy I\u0027ve noticed that everything we have that is an int is actually a 16-bit unsigned integer and so I\u0027m going to suggest that we change into an unsigned integer datatype and the question I have is should we all so while we\u0027re at it restrict it to 16 bits or does that even matter at the information like model level because if we well if we don\u0027t mention that at 16-bit we do need to mention that the max value is 2 to the 16th which brings up the additional question of there\u0027s lots of mentions of infinity which came from these 6126 bits which my understanding is infinity is actually just hex mahesh yes so from my perspective I think it\u0027s helpful to be as precise as possible in this case I would like to be specified that it\u0027s you and 16 that we are trying to specify all for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:38",
    "text": "all those parameters then the data model has no confusion in terms of the size as far as I\u0027m mentioning the max I think implicitly if you set the UN to be 16 bits I think it\u0027s implicit that the max value will only be for EPS okay so we have agreement we will change from int to you int and definitely one way or another the maximum is 2 to the 16th for all of these fine William hey it\u0027s 2 to the 16th minus one you know open parenthesis okay number 5 was actually a closed issue if you\u0027re counting why we skip from 6 to 4 so now we\u0027re on issue number 4 plus I thought it would make us feel a lot better that we\u0027re actually closer to the end than we thought we were so this is credentials and I don\u0027t want to spend a whole lot of time discussing this here but I need to bring up that I think you know I kind of threw together something so that we would have something to throw things at now that we have the H Mak draft and we have the DTLS draft and we\u0027re proceeding with both of those I want to change what I\u0027ve got to actually be a model for an H max shared key credential and DTLS x.509 credential and just managed those specific things rather than this blobby credential thing does anyone have an objection to that no objections okay Oh Julius is going to say something imagine that go ahead when you can push it harder that did the trick yeah in H mag there is no different proper format for the key bit it is just right it is a shirt key but the format is not defined because all you have underwater are the signatures and that there is no underwire serialisation for the keys to find an H Mac but if you look at H mag it\u0027s just a white string right yeah but then you would need the registry of H Mac older wrists wouldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:41",
    "text": "you sorry so yeah we\u0027re finished no no I\u0027m fine go ahead so then the question I wouldn\u0027t say there\u0027s Mahesh the question I would have is when we go to define this in the data model we would have to define what the shared key format would be or at least imported from an existing model that defines Shakey\u0027s and we also need to make sure that whatever an implementation does in using the shared key to hash things out that two different implementations do the same thing so that they actually think they\u0027re using the same shared key I think the H max definition don\u0027t look at me that way RFC 2014 or whatever it is 21:04 it\u0027s clear enough on that but the thing is that H Mac is based on a Mac algorithm so you need a key he which is a byte string and you need AMAC out with a to specify what you\u0027re doing so today it\u0027s Julie that\u0027s what Julie was asking if we need a registry of yeah each max which really boils down to a registry of Mac of a hash functions really sorry hash functions so hopefully there is such a registry around already but if we have to do that but there is Canal Z Google I don\u0027t think there is such a registry each protocol that uses H Mac as far as I know defines its own registry or each protocol that uses hash functions for example TLS has a registry of hash functions Ike v2 has register - functions I don\u0027t think there\u0027s they\u0027re arbitrary one so in this case in order to configure this yeah you will need the pair of hash function comma key and so I think I agree with Julius we would need to define an eye on a registry for hash functions used in Babel and then then it\u0027s just a byte string for the key that has very length so you think we need another registry did you is it in the H Mac it needs to be in the H Mac document right necessarily no it doesn\u0027t because for the HVAC document the the hash function is never sent on the wire only the output so as long as both implementations agree to use let\u0027s say sha-256 with key fubar then they\u0027re fine how do they agree to use sha-256 the same way they agree to use that key you don\u0027t need a registry for that the purpose of a registry it\u0027s gonna be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:42",
    "text": "configured you\u0027re saying yes okay then there needs to be a I need to look at they\u0027re crafty but there needs to be a security consideration section which says that for example probably the identity function is not a good hash function true the so the H Mac draft recommends sha-256 as a mandatory to implement which is considered secure today and then you can define your own on the side and the key size yeah it just says use the recommended key size for 556 which is 32 bytes okay so what I\u0027m hearing is for HVAC or the information model for credential management in 4h mic management is we need the shared key and we need to know the hashing function okay for DTLS we\u0027re using x.509 certificates just like in TLS with the extended header whatever stuff not necessarily DTLS can be keyed using certificates using raw keys or symmetric keys using shared secrets using a whole bunch of things that doesn\u0027t really help answer your question no it really doesn\u0027t it makes it much more complex exactly so yeah the nebulous correct credentials in quotes is kind of all of the things DTRS can do so for this maybe for now we just say hey the model document only supports X 5 or 9 I\u0027d be fine with that okay Mahesh and that would be my recommendation that the toff says that we\u0027re gonna support only x.509 certificate for now to clarify the magic beside what\u0027s the name of you - again barber information model thanks the information model and yang model can say that to configure we only support x.509 but the DTLS draft doesn\u0027t need to mandate that - that true um and then Mahesh and I are going to work out how to include language for modeling the adding and deletion of these things which are highly sensitive and we\u0027re not yeah we\u0027re going to do that amongst ourselves okay the security table this is related but right now I\u0027ve got this security object kind of redundantly in two places and feedback i\u0027ve got from broadband farm is it would be nice if we only had it in one place and it is actually possible to put it in one place by simply if it refers only to a specific interface then you simply have an interface reference within the object and then we only need one object and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:43",
    "text": "that really kind of simplifies things yeah anything nope okay good I\u0027m gonna consider that one closed I\u0027m gonna do that okay statistics we have discussed statistics in the past do we want to add statistics this is kind of these statistics I think we can add does anyone have thoughts no thoughts whatsoever that\u0027s really scary yeah Mahesh I I would absolutely agree that I think it would be good to include at least some basic come on it\u0027s just it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s barbarous cursing me to give an opinion here it\u0027s Ganassi yeah no no stats sound finest something that\u0027s optional I would imagine some very lightweight implementations might not want to collect stats so as long as it\u0027s optional I think it\u0027s a really good idea okay and these are kind of the small set of stats that I would define you can see the list okay I\u0027m gonna try and put that in um logs is the last thing in Mahesh and I actually had a discussion about logs since we kind of do logs differently in yang versus TR 181 and we\u0027re going to try to work it out amongst ourselves but basically I really dislike the way we currently have the logs modeled and I\u0027m going to change it because what we have is this weird thing where it\u0027s actually in the information model in any way so if it\u0027s okay with you guys I\u0027m just going to work it out with Mahesh which means by the way Mahesh is now going to be an author of the information model right okay so my next step I\u0027m gonna update revision and some of these I need to send out to the list like the a B and F question we\u0027re gonna be updating the data models and then the next question is when will we start wgl C and I\u0027m thinking maybe in the new year maybe if we could do it maybe February ish well I think resolved in a new version posted we can do it them if we have the issues result okay we\u0027ve got some holiday plans and things so it okay I think the goal is going to be sort of it towards the beginning of the new year I\u0027d actually like to have wgl C completed before the broadband March meeting which is a week before the IETF March meeting so that\u0027s a go okay and I think yeah I just had some backup stuff in case people had questions about some of the INR considerations but nobody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:44",
    "text": "really did so I don\u0027t need the backup slides okay thank you your presentation I don\u0027t think anybody has any questions that didn\u0027t come up during it [Music] all right so I\u0027m gonna present the babble yang model my partner-in-crime is gonna be Barbara there any questions related to the model you can point to me as anything related to the babble protocol itself I would highly recommend dr. Barbara well the motivation mainly idea warrants the yang model for pretty much any protocol that\u0027s defined so this particular version after model was based on 0 2 0 3 was published after this traffic had already been posted so maybe one of the first things I\u0027ll be doing is bringing it up to date to the 0 3 worries it is a yang 1.1 model which may not mean much but I just mentioned it and the next statement is also not going to make too much sense but it\u0027s nmda compatible which essentially means that it should work with all the modern NMDA based management systems if you have any questions about it feel free to ping me so the tree diagram which is how yang hierarchy is generally represented this is subject to change as I said I think Barbara and I have a few things we need to sort out so but what you basically are seeing is a structure that\u0027s very very similar to the information model so they are of course in the base container there is the usual version number enable flag router ID you know but then it breaks out into transport section subsection interface subsection routes and security I\u0027ll jump into a few set of shinsen mac that are in my mind or they were and other people\u0027s mind like Julius had a couple of questions so I\u0027ll state something and then wait to see if anyone has any question or response to it the first thing is interfaces so the interfaces under the model are interface type defined in RFC 83 43 which is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:46",
    "text": "base which is an interface yang model and there are different interface types that it that that model supports so if there is an interface type that is not that babel needs to support we may need to add that in the list of interface types but i I would imagine that almost every type of interface is already there so the question is does the interface type need to be restricted to a certain set of interfaces I don\u0027t David\u0027s Ganassi Jewess can correct me if I\u0027m wrong but I think his one of his goals were Babel and are girls in the working group continuing in that work is to make it applicable anywhere it might work as Julius said it\u0027s a routing protocol it routes so I don\u0027t think we need any kind of restriction I think just using the standard if like the yang model has definitions for all the interface types in existence let\u0027s just use that okay yeah so there are both physical virtual tunnel interface types that are defined by eighty 343 say and there are there Babel deployments on virtual as well and there also I think that that makes perfect sense to me sorry just to clarify though but presumably you wouldn\u0027t want it to apply to allow one interface or allowed to interface I mean right I mean you I mean you\u0027re any you\u0027re not talking about a physical layer interface like a DSL port are you yes you say you might okay I mean there\u0027s no don\u0027t Lea as it does there\u0027s not as diction right so true so that shouldn\u0027t even many layer restriction in terms of what type of interface you might register just just confirming because I mean I think from the point of view of yanking backwards compatibility it\u0027s best to start as narrow as possible and then in augmentation in future versions you can expand this is the when if you put a when right if you put a win on there then from the point the yang rules you can always support additional interface types later but if it was wide open to begin with then you can\u0027t you can\u0027t narrow it down later I believe I would have rules think that I mean if you started with then statement that was going to be one huge statement well no but I mean potentially it can be done in terms of you know attributes of the interface using no identity hierarchy well you have to if you if you\u0027re looking for restricting it then you have to specify in the rent statement by the I have type is of this type right this doesn\u0027t necessarily have to be added specifically the if\u0027 types it could be an identity derived from over sorry from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:48",
    "text": "which the if\u0027 types are derived right so right now so it\u0027s in that the identity of is through an interface today I get just sorry I I\u0027m just trying to reflect some sort of some of the experience we\u0027ve had in the broadband forum and which may not apply here which is that when we when we define something that augments an interface or points to an interface then we try to make it as restrictive as possible because we know he can make it less restrictive later on and so I was just wanting to confirm that they really needed have been absolutely any type of interface here would be applicable no matter what layer and if that\u0027s the case then that\u0027s fine go away so it\u0027s pretty much what it is right now um just to clarify what you mean by layer babel does have a requirement today in that it routes IP so what I meant is all IP interfaces in existence ah well sorry I am very not knowledgeable in this world so maybe we restrict it to IP interfaces that would be fine by me maybe so well that then I guess let\u0027s stick to get a quick step back into what we\u0027re trying to get out of this because if I have a babel router and I want to manage it remotely and get some information I do want to know let\u0027s say for example that on this side its Ethernet and on that side its Wi-Fi at the end of the day those both of those carry IP and what conceptually from the label yes their IP interfaces but what we\u0027re trying to get out of here is some more information about what\u0027s under IP so as long as that interface can carry IP it works so both the a and T are 181 have layered interfaces for every interface you happen to know like if it\u0027s an IP interface you know what 802 3 interfaces if it\u0027s you know on top of an Ethernet MAC is below that and then below that it would be maybe your physical interface if it\u0027s tunneled you may have additional you know you may have I don\u0027t know a 4 6 4x lat ipv4 on top of an ipv6 but that\u0027s still that\u0027s still an IP interface there but I think if we restrict it to IP interfaces that would be very helpful ok if weak and I\u0027m currently mind saying is you cannot there\u0027s nothing defined as IP interface only I mean their interface types which is where it\u0027s a tunnel type or itself I don\u0027t know if I remember of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:49",
    "text": "the interface types that are indiana registry i think there\u0027s even an iron there is 305 types I don\u0027t think so that is something which says it\u0027s I be type well William looked but I mean if there\u0027s a missing interface type then one can ask if there really is a missing interface type one can ask for it to be added but but I\u0027ve I mean the way that the interface that the eye you know the eighty 3:43 stuff works I always have to go back and check I mean it is an identity hierarchy so there may be ways of doing this that don\u0027t actually require the reference specifically to an eye on oh I have type I think there may be a way of doing this using more of a you know an appropriate point in the identity hierarchy but that would require list on my part research to you know I can\u0027t give an answer I\u0027m just but I do think that if one\u0027s worried about future extensibility it\u0027s good to start narrow in the sense of what I mean it\u0027s really constraining interface starts because pervy whatever it is section 11 rules in 7950 you know the ones that say what are acceptable changes to a future version of the young model I believe that you can for the when statement you can allow it to apply to more things but you can\u0027t narrow it to apply to few to fewer things yeah you think you know backward compatible you know the lack of compatibility which is I think an important consideration very young it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good point whether rustic taking is a backward incompatible change or are you just redefining because you can do the same thing with the deviation statement in yang you\u0027re not necessarily changing the model you\u0027re just saying that I don\u0027t support certain types of I have to get back and always rate that section but I believe it explicitly says that you can like make a when statement apply to more things whereas of course I mean we don\u0027t wouldn\u0027t use restrictions in a deviations in a standard model that way so maybe we should move along okay we you know we had some extra time but we\u0027re kind of using it up so okay be and there was a question of what is the designated outgoing interface and I think that\u0027s defined in the model as the neighbor question number two or issue number two and babbling types I think we discussed this quite a bit already in the in in the context of the information model so I\u0027m gonna kind of skip over some of the questions because I think I have the answers so unless someone wants to bring up any more clarifications I did have a private conversation that Barbara on this and I think I\u0027m kind of clear on how the link type is going to be used I think the same is true for the metric computation algorithm and the security supported the last of course is going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:51",
    "text": "change substantially right so this is a bigger question for the working group yang has already defined a base routing model that takes care of things like routes the read we RF interfaces and routing policy quick clarifying question David can you define those acronyms please oh okay so routes of course rib is row information based routing information base is the thing from which you calculate the forwarding information base images what is actually in the gurgler yep and VIPs a virtual routing and forwarding okay sorry we okay just assume people know what these acronyms are alright so the first question I have is does babble need to support the base routing model the base learning model currently has definitions or routes [Music] so if they need to we I mean almost all roaring Protocol\u0027s anything for the nine definition not supposed to augment which means use that as a base model and then Babel is kind of augmented under Ed Martin vigor speaking so trying to answer that by asking a question if we don\u0027t support that how do we do do we develop our own right so yeah to try to answer that so Chris I\u0027m not going to try ask you know the question is because the information model has block four routes today and I don\u0027t think so there\u0027s anything for it but if we choose not to then we are kind of fragmenting the routing table in some sense between Babel and all the other protocols that might be running so I\u0027m guessing the answer is yes we need to augment the base routing protocol model I\u0027m not the one deciding so Martina sorry Martin speaking again maybe you should start "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:53",
    "text": "from that and see if you run into problems you know it sounds like what people do right the next question is does Bible need to support vrf and just from my brief look at these things and I don\u0027t know a lot more than the rest of you I I really always worry about needing to support anything that is still in a draft because that creates a dependencies um yes so it might at the worst cases refer to do a Miss Ref but I think not doing it probably I don\u0027t know if it might create more problems for us I\u0027m throwing it out I did push the button so I don\u0027t know what the status is just let the data point there are at least two implementations of Terrell that support the RF and the configuration of that thing is a mess so I don\u0027t know if we want to do it in the yang model but I\u0027d be I\u0027d be nervous okay David scatter Z I so there was talk of delaying the babel work because of the yang ball which which slightly changed the Charter for that so if we will this ends up in miss ref state I feel very strongly that it should not delay 6126 bits if this document is administra for a little bit longer that that\u0027s okay but I really want to get 6126 bits out the door so for that chairs an ad as long as 6126 bits isn\u0027t blocked on this that\u0027s okay but if it is blocked then I would what was the purpose of the Charter think it\u0027s no longer required by the Charter and I don\u0027t believe the actual graph to refers to this in any way so i concur with you thank you okay actually I should have gone to the backup slides for each one of these questions right okay so the last one is does babble need to support ordering policy and for that I\u0027ll sorry oh I guess I don\u0027t have the latest lights here but in here so it provides a generic policy framework and if we need that capability then I would need a plan I don\u0027t know what the story is it\u0027s not the agenda slide isn\u0027t my latest agenda slide either I uploaded here sighs and I uploaded my slide you know why we\u0027re not getting the latest ones on this okay I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:05",
    "text": "think you\u0027re right unless someone wants to really know what the details of the routing policy model is so the question is do we need to support our in policy Martha speaking again you need to support it if you need it in in in the protocol otherwise you don\u0027t need to support it in the model okay all right the Morelli is the one that needs to be consistent with the protocol not the other way around true but it can well I guess you\u0027re right it to be consistent with the rest of the system yes it needs to I\u0027m just making sure that the group knows okay so open question is this work useful and if so can we have work adopted I believe the Charter basically so now says we should do a yang model and I think much of the IETF considers yang to be something of some use I don\u0027t know so David\u0027s conoc√≠ yeah so especially skewing that this isn\u0027t Charter this is useful and so I wanted to state like thank you so much for doing this because I do not understand yang and I\u0027m really glad that we\u0027re doing it like I\u0027m not doing yet so thank you so much and I fully support adoption of us and us moving forward with it yeah does anybody have any Dawkins doing a call for working group adoption seeing none no objections I will miss you such a call right thank you I guess the problem is I should have refreshed the webpage of the meeting materials before but is that\u0027s not immediately obvious anyway ruling and I think Julius said plus one which I think was to the support of adoption yes well people need to do that on the webpage so you\u0027re next they\u0027ve already see us thank you well we don\u0027t have a big box now we\u0027ll have a pink X how does that work all right so a very quick update on Babel over DTLS my name is David skinned Ozzy and this was a document that was written with Halton on this you know and just allergic so very quickly the idea is you use multicast hellos to discover neighbors once you\u0027ve discovered a neighbor you establish the GTRs connection then you run everything else inside be TLS and it\u0027s safe yay so the idea is we have so two security systems for Babel one is H Magnum GT LS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "this one is has more dependencies especially you need a DTLS library which isn\u0027t always easy on very constrained devices but it also has more features the two main fee that the main feature is granularity of trust you have different keys meaning you can have like a symmetric keys so for example in our home net-like scenario you can have a circ with a private key on each router and then you can revoke a given router from your system but you can\u0027t do it H Mac so in those kind of deployments we recommend DTLS but for everything simple we recommend HVAC and that was the motivation great another benefit you get is that the traffic is encrypted so someone who doesn\u0027t have the keys can\u0027t see the topology of your network so we just published Daschle one before the deadline now there was an open question which we solved is that DT the DTS uses a separate port that we\u0027re gonna ask from I Anna as the destination port and then the connections are initiated from an ephemeral client port like any other use of the DTS protocol another slight change is now I heard yous need to be inside DTS they\u0027re not allowed outside in the clear and that really simplifies the security boundary of the protocol the only thing you can see outside is hellos so you cannot establish bi-directional reach ability with someone who doesn\u0027t have keys thought simpler one slight change that Julius pointed out is that if you\u0027re using the RTT extension then you need to send unicast hellos inside the DTLS as well so that way you can do the rtt and we did some edit or changes to clarify the motivation thanks to 20 peas with you and that\u0027s it we think the document is in good shape and we\u0027d like to motion for a working group last call okay any comments on this presentation or the document or the question we remove last call and Julius is asked so first I\u0027d like to say that I support the change of requiring I accuse to be protected and the argument that convinced me is the fact that it means that it makes it easy to convince yourselves that the protocol IPSec is secure if I each use need to be protected then you never create a symmetric association with somebody who doesn\u0027t have the key okay so that makes it easy to convince yourself that the protocol is secure the other point I think is important to mention the other reason you want have DTLS in addition to H Mac in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:06",
    "text": "addition to your two points is in case you run into trouble because people are telling you you don\u0027t want to do your own crypto okay there is this point of view that one should not be doing their own crypto code I don\u0027t necessarily agree about but some people might be in this kind of environment and DTLS sells quite nicely the problem of delegating the crypto to DTLS I agree thanks Joyce okay so I\u0027m not hearing any objections I\u0027ll do a working group last call on this I guess I mean probably Oh still do it started later today but maybe weren\u0027t it for three weeks because we\u0027re in the middle of iedf week and everybody\u0027s busy and stuff like that that sounds great thanks and if people in the room are on the job or haven\u0027t read the document it\u0027s like five pages long so please take a quick look and let us know what you think next we have recent changes to RFC 6120 six bish yes yes he\u0027s the yes he\u0027s the presenter hello so this is joint work with David Skinner Z which I didn\u0027t put I\u0027m sorry it\u0027s a copy/paste slot first slide next please next slide please sorry yes I have the remote it doesn\u0027t work I did push that button on the right one time too many okay I think we\u0027ve overcome that technical problem we\u0027re now on the second one okay so there was six one two six which define the original babel 737 which defines the extension mechanism and the two have been unified we put them together and we made six one two six bits which is now at - zero six and so there are a number of clarifications of tightening there are quite a few loosen ends because over the years we have understood that what I had done in the original six one two six was overly restrictive and we understand now that there are things that we can do which we didn\u0027t understand them and we have deliberately refrained from adding new features unless we actually use them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:06",
    "text": "we\u0027ve just add improved neighbor discovery and link sensing so it turns out that the algorithm itself works pretty well and usually when people run in trouble it\u0027s because of neighbor discovery and link sensing so we\u0027ve added unicast hello that was David\u0027s and toki\u0027s work we\u0027ve added unscheduled hellos and we have a more extensive built packet format and it\u0027s receptio DS and we now have a packet trailer and that\u0027s Newton - oh six and it would be really good if people review it next please so unicast hellos that was done by David so I don\u0027t feel very comfortable speaking about it but in six one two six LTL fees can be sent either over unicast or multicast except hello\u0027s which must be sent over multicast in six one two this in six one two six this daven and toki have added a new kind of hello the unicast hello which is sent over unicast to just a single neighbor and except for that it has all the features of an ordinary hello and we believe it can be useful on link layers with outrageously expensive multicast in which we want to avoid sending periodic multicast hellos and it can be used if you need to carry a subtly that can only be stuck on a hello in a unicast packet and the obvious example the only such shield sub KL v we have right now is the time stamps of TLD which David mentioned in his talk and other than for the hello sub TLD unicast hellos are not required by the DTLS extension which protects everything except hellos next please there are unscheduled hellos so in six one two six every hello resets the link quality Tyner so it\u0027s difficult to send a Hello at an arbitrary time in six one two six bits we have a notion of an unscheduled hello which is just like a Hello but it doesn\u0027t reset any timers so that\u0027s something that doesn\u0027t cost much it\u0027s a small extension to the protocol and it simplifies the implementation somewhat if you need to send unscheduled tell us next please the big change in six one two six bits and that is mostly due to Gwendolyn chuan who harassed me for weeks until I agreed to add it to the protocol and she was right is the mandatory subshell V so in the original six one two six a babel packet was just a sequence of TLC\u0027s and whenever you son unknown TLD you\u0027d ignore it in seven five five seven I added the notion of a sub TLD so every tlvs most here these can contain sub gles and if you don\u0027t understand the sub TLD you ignore the sub TLD but you still honor the rest of the TLV and in six one two six bits we added mandatory subsidies so a mandatory septa LD if it is unknown or miss Parsifal or any reason it called causes the whole enclosing TLV to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:07",
    "text": "ignored so that is a dramatic simplification to protocol extensions we\u0027ve seen into a source specific it\u0027s shrunk by half when we got mandatory safety all these they are a little bit more complicated to implement they add some twenty lines of code to your implementation if you\u0027re not doing set T Obie\u0027s because you have to walk every TLV that you understand to see whether there are any men that mandatory securities that you don\u0027t understand it\u0027s well worth it next please and the new feature in six one two sin - zero six is the packet trailer so a Babel packet has three parts there\u0027s a fixed size packet header of four bytes there\u0027s the packet baldie which is a sequence of TL visa and after the body there is a trailer which I defined an original six one two six and I said it silently ignored we don\u0027t know what to do is it but it natural came up and the intent of that was to have carried cryptographic signatures now in six one two six bits in there zero six with extended the packet format to have to define the packet trailer which is now a sequence of gles you can reuse the same parser as for the packet building and it\u0027s only used by the H Mac extension the H max that cover the packet body are carried in the trailer so what happens here is that you avoid the dance you know of having to erase the H Mac before you compute the H Mac because the H Mac does not cover itself because the H Mac is in the trailer so there\u0027s a trade-off here we have complicated the specification and what we got in exchange was that the implementation is much simpler Toki who did the other implementation of H Mac agrees with me it\u0027s well worth the trade-off now it used to be an appendix at the H mag draft in 0-6 I\u0027ve put it in the body and the only review I had were from Toki who said that my English is absolutely horrible and that I have to rewrite them but he agreed with the contents so please review this this is new stuff and we\u0027ll be stuck with it if we get too drunk please okay so just a quick note about compatibility with six one two six unicast Hellas and mandatory sub T all these are incompatible extensions so understanding them is some 20 lines of code that we need to add it to all implementations before we can start sending them the current status is that we\u0027ve done the work and double D invert in s barbel T and then David\u0027s top-secret implementation and not allowed to tell you about we haven\u0027t done it in FRR and there is one that I\u0027ve missed here we haven\u0027t done it in PI data so it needs to be done in a 4-hour and PI level and then we can start sending the fancy new sub T of these next please well thank you for your attention "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:16",
    "text": "what are you saying I said thank you for your attention so I have a server question which I think Martin might want to attention so we have this RFC 21 6126 this main graft and I haven\u0027t looked at recently I actually probably should have we have these two security drafts two security mechanisms DTLS and H Mac so what does 6126 this currently say about the implementation requirement level for these security ones is the should neither one or both be mandatory to implement or recommended or whatever so here I have this like this agreement was not respectable co-author so I believe that we should be strongly recommending H Mac and keeping DTLS optional and I don\u0027t think we should put H Mac as TI so if there is strong pressure to make H Mak MTI I\u0027m not going to object because I think it\u0027s a clean and simple extension that it is reasonable to require but I would not prefer it to be simply strongly recommended and not empty I hear it\u0027s Ganassi so to reply to our respectable co-authors na I agree that\u0027s perfectly fine by me what\u0027s empty or not I don\u0027t really have a strong feeling so here\u0027s a proposal for a strategy moving forward we have normative references in the document to both security mechanisms saying what I was saying earlier that we recommend H Mak unless you need the other features that H Mac doesn\u0027t have and we try to move this forward to publish it if there\u0027s huge pushback that it must be MTI then twisting our arms we add MTI but i would like to try to get through the process in support of julius with our MTI so maybe martin can you comment on process how that work yeah I was a usually security people would like there to be one security method that is mandatory to implement for interoperability but not speaking I want to try when I see where we go up until well up until where I can go with that approach and if it\u0027s let\u0027s say the consensus of the working group to follow that path let\u0027s try to follow it and if you stumble across hard security ad and you might need to revise that position what sounds like a plan there n a vector following that plan yeah I\u0027ll post something on the mailing list about it to see if there\u0027s at the action doesn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:16",
    "text": "mailing list but we\u0027ll go with the plan of normatively referencing both from RFC 6120 six bits and recommending use of h mac unless there\u0027s a specific requirement needing some of the features of the TLS Martin speaking you\u0027d be in a very difficult situation if you had no security mechanism but since you have and since you\u0027re recommending new use that\u0027s already a very good step Julius Derek speaking can I ask you to write that text since you are respectively disagreed with my proposal of text and that way we can - of 7 and dark and then proceed to move the document forward yeah it\u0027s in goods my proposal is in get already I\u0027m going to revise the English of my tags that prose up my text about the trailer and then get in touch with you and we\u0027ll deal ok so that\u0027s kind of the end of the agenda anybody want to bring anything else up or this meeting we have 10 minutes left can I just say thank you to God really nice again for helping with the minutes remotely you\u0027re amazing Gabriel I think Barbara for doing that stew and everybody hopefully out nobody easy bring up any topics so I guess we\u0027ll adjourn this meeting see people on the mailing list or the next IDF meeting [Music] "
  }
]