[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign folks how's everyone doing hello folks thank you hi everyone hello hello greetings from Seattle greeting greetings back to Seattle thanks honest okay let's give folks a few more minutes I will try to take the meeting notes again foreign that works for you yeah please help me um doing that established what you were saying okay yep yeah awesome that's sometimes difficult to follow all the discussions okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "okay yeah I see Steve Roy oradic Shining Ray Ori Nat nil you are dropping in and out at least from what I can see I don't know if that's intentional hearing foreign it would be nice if we could get an agreement on the architecture specifically the terminology aspects and so on thanks uh Ray for posting your write-up that was obviously helpful maybe we should actually someone should share the screen so we can have a look at this and discuss it a little bit and then come up with a with a Way Forward Ray can you hear me yeah ah so are you asking me um to take a look at the document that I created is that what you're thinking um well if you if you don't mind um and share the document no I don't mind doing that anymore uh be fun to do that um let me get it set up here um so one other thing before while you are doing this um the use case uh call for adoption will come to an end today so so far a few of you responded so only I've only seen positive feedback so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "um I don't think that that will radically change till the end of the day um and then we'll ask the authors to submit a um an IDF a working group version of that document I think that would be good this is saying as soon as there's a act on the uh on them and then we are glad to do that cool excellent um I'm trying to find a shares green thing what that is um close to the microphone panel can you see that okay on the left side yeah I got it I got it okay you know what yes uh okay um uh okay um just looking at some of the comments here um okay so do you want me to just start now uh yeah zoom in a little bit um so it's bigger but uh then go ahead all right um let's see uh it makes this bar bigger too unfortunately all right so um go back one so um let me also put in um uh the link okay in the chat room so that um so that anyone can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "why don't you hide the uh the menu bar there yeah okay A little uh Arrow up arrow on the right there we go is that oh this too yeah better there we go yep okay a little bit up a little bit that'd be great it's quite hard to read but yeah okay so um oh yeah here we go okay um and uh okay so what I did here is just try to make a block diagram of what a real um skit registry might look like and um put in the blocks where yeah some of these blocks might be you know in The Ledger or not but still there were things to think about in terms of on the left what a submitter might be needing to think about and what a on the right what a uh registry viewer or transparency service type of thing would be showing um from the registry and um you know in terms of the exact you know apis and so forth I wasn't trying to do at that level I'm just trying to to look at uh what the big picture might be and so uh and some of these things kind of go to both sides I think but essentially on the submitter side if I can just walk through some of these blocks um there would be users okay so we'd have to have some sort of a user um idea and those would be like maybe the open ID connect um controlled"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "um and then um there there would be probably users with some sort of delegated authority to act for organizations an organization would be either a corporation or in an unincorporated association of people maintaining open source of you know product and an organization can have a set of product lines um and and I didn't break put it in here but there's probably logically another block here called models um configurations of a product and this is sort of mushy depending upon depending upon the application area about what a product line is or what a product is and what a release is but in software you might have something up here like you know Microsoft Windows or access or something like this and then there might be a configuration of that for a given type of you know platform um Linux or Windows uh type of thing and then type of CPU Etc and then a product release is also a concept um in terms of having a semantic version and so forth so the reason these are necessary is because a user on the other side here is going to need to refer to to the product um to get information about it but let me just not jump ahead too far then there's some sort of pre-submission filter before something gets submitted to The Ledger and and depending upon how this gets designed um you would want either to have a fairly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "would think of as the e-notary but also it also would include kind of a title search too because you're only going to want to submit things from an organization that actually owns that product line or and and product by a user with delegated authority to make this admission unless it was uh someone else maybe adding something to it but certainly that's going to be the main uh the main type of operation um there may be post submission validation services that add records to The Ledger and in in my mind I'm thinking that that even though this Ledger is an append only maybe just a gigantic table with entries at the bottom um you would still as you look into it would logically see product line aggregations um and this part of it could be thought of as part of the registry the product line aggregations or product release aggregation because when you look into The Ledger you don't want to see you know all the entries distributed across uh one big table you you want to see an API here probably that says like give me the information about maybe all the products by the product Lines by this organization maybe uh for this product line of that organization tell me which releases there are maybe what of this release tell me what um you know the bill of materials is and any information so you could you could put all this together and you'd say well for Relief that release it's this product line it's this organization here's their private public key here's the product line you know linked to that and then that's maybe all you would get the whole shebang right you bit big giant you know block back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "um and but in The Ledger it might be implemented some other way so so the the reason this aggregation here and the product lines and stuff is more about how we would need to think about the structure of what what's in a ledger so that it can be both will mainly access later so somebody needs to be able to to stay in their mind uh what they want to get so working back over here then on this registry viewer side you have um as you look into The Ledger um through the API or however it's done you would then be able to get aggregations of a given product release for example and then a business to business evaluation might be a user of this product and then that would feed back here to to their product saying uh do we want to use this in our product or let's update our bill of materials or what something like that um and that could be at different levels of either after an evaluation this so these evaluations are logically in my mind not part of The Ledger are not part of the registry but maybe additional services that would do um verification validation uh or what um dick is always asking for which is a valid thing uh the end user app saying is the software trustworthy and this block here would evaluate the given a request from a ledger for a given that given product release it would do something magic here and decide um whether it was trustworthy okay but the actual stuff in The Ledger does not say this is trustworthy all it gives you is all the information such that you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "create this this determination down here then we also uh would have potentially a rats entity which could be an internet of things or perhaps a piece of software loaded on a cloud service or something and and it the verifier needs information to to evaluate this and then and then maybe that evaluation information is contained in the uh the release the product release aggregation for that product and uh not sure about this but it was something I'm just starting to think about and then um but certainly I think it applies then down here is um the concept of a ledger registry which probably should just say skit registry registry so this is the registry of Registries and this would be something that would be probably I think now I'm looking at it part of what the the beach to be or end user evaluation blocks here would need to use because they're they're not necessarily going to be able to refer to a single registry to be able to get their information they may be looking at various um uh uh say uh you know Registries that are maintained either by the given manufacturers which I kind of anticipate will be common um or some kind of like main registry if there happens to be some sort of amazon.com sort of place that everybody goes to I'm not saying amazon.com but does that concept of everybody buys their stuff from one place now so uh The Ledger and as I was showing it here would have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "is an append only like secure data table perhaps and very likely maybe something like the qldb offering by AWS or other you know cloud service providers have the same type of thing um and in your mind you can think of this as a uh as basically a database table or tables um and um then it's limited though okay so the registry entries in such Ledger offerings are limited to maybe 400 megabytes per entry so you can that's which is pretty big but um it's not you know big enough for many like container type of things um for example the containers on AWS are limited to 10 gigabytes right now so certainly it would not be able to run as a container registry itself but then you would have bulk storage that would be related to The Ledger and probably co-located um in the same data center or data centers wherever this this is and then you would have some things down here which is external storage anywhere which could be referred to by The Ledger um and you know you could pick that up over the Internet of course then you have to think about um whether that is going to be secure enough for the application like you want to guarantee that it's not going to be deleted then you probably want to put it on this Associated bulk storage um there could be yeah you want me to stop yeah a few people already in the queue uh oh I'm sorry I wasn't watching"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "it uh I got it on to the wrong uh let's see I got to go up to the top to see the people's hands um let me just let me just say these last few items here okay and then I'll be done okay so um this private storage only available for comparison challenges is if you have say a binary of a piece of software that you cannot release to the public or you don't want to and yet you still want to allow um it to be challenged um by uh you know users to say is this the you know golden version um and here is a you know challenge it with the knots and then you wouldn't have to look at it to see if it's the same and then the certification Authority is something that's here so I guess I'm done all right so let me I gotta move this up so I can see okay here we go I can tell you Steve is first all right Steve do you want to you're still a mute hear me can you damn it yep we can hear you hear me now okay yeah yes I think we're all struggling with the media.com anyway so uh thanks for putting this together it really helps you know we were talking last time around the we were zoomed in tightly just for a particular terminology and see more of the workflows uh what's more context to everything and it resonates really well with the things we've also been discussing around you know things that will be in on or in The Ledger versus external Ledger um to keep the size constraints down to things that are in already in other storage systems that we need to link to so I think it speaks well to all of those pieces the one piece that I was trying to understand a little bit more was a couple pieces but the first one was in the drawing my first perspective of it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "was on the left was the producers on the right was the consumers not consumers as in individuals that buy products but anybody that reads and writes uh well reads the apis meaning I'm consuming information from a skit configuration what confused me a little bit is what the box is so if somebody stands up a skid instance what is it that would be assumed to be inside of that versus external to it and one of the things for instance you've got transparency service in the box to the right and I was reading the box to the right as being the consumption part so I was thinking transparency service will be the piece in the middle the actual skid instance and then the only other piece I'll just leave with it and let you answer or discuss I also think of the there's a perimeter if you have circumference where at the very core there's the skit specs that says this is what makes you know for a skit instance then there's a concentric Circle outside of that that any project product or service that implements skit would add some value on top of those specs and those standards so when you think of email there's an email spec but every email server has additional capabilities that they add but it's wrapped around those existing specs so I can still send a receive email but inside the email client I might see more functionality and so forth so just kind of curious on how you were thinking this drawing relates to what a skit instance would be from the specs to a particular product how producers and consumers would work with it and where you saw some of those boundaries okay um yeah so I in my mind at this point I'm thinking that that these boxes over here are actually just uh well it depends on how you want to implement it but but certainly you you need to know like who can submit to The Ledger and you need to know the organizations those could be part of The Ledger in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "other words you could have Ledger entries that say let organization X here's the public key here's the address blah blah blah all of the schema things that uh you know fields and I did add down in the document here um and some of the things that uh the schema.org has the descriptors for organizations and there's also this uh ISO standard for the structure of the information blah blah um it turns out I think this is the way things are going is the EB core party ID type technical spec by the uh Oasis um and because fairance.com now just jumps into this um and so so essentially what you could have in this concept here is that for example the organization would be perhaps a skit claim that says I'm this organization and here's my information and if that's all you wanted that's you'd say tell me about this organization that's what you'd get um if you said um tell me all the product lines that are tagged with this organization you would get those entries in The Ledger just in a level of a product line uh you could say tell me all the all the product releases regardless of what product line maybe or of a given product line so it would be kind of like look up you know capabilities of looking up in the table um so these things here are just um the required Concepts okay regarding uh what the how the registry would need to work because you need the concept of an organization um unless you have the unaffiliated user and you know so which could be just sort of like a a shell organization with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "nothing in it around a user so it could be the same thing but then within what we normally think of as an organization like a big one like Microsoft or something then there's users with delegated authority for a given product line or maybe a given release that can makes that is tagged with being having the authority to make the submission through the submission filter um and so there's some there's some operational things that you would have to deal with here in order to have what you might call an e-notary okay and I was trying to break that up as to like okay you know we talked about in order but what is it and I think it's this pre-submission filter of saying okay well it's the organization what the product line and the release and I've got all that either by Looking In The Ledger and seeing that I've already put in a an organization and a product line and but then you'd also have to have kind of the user lower level user front end here for anybody who's actually like given the authority to access the API or to use this thing that has to be a kind of you can't be part of the API itself I guess you could look at it that way but that's sort of a separate part of the of the system um now this part over here the product line aggregations is actually kind of an uh I think a nothing box here because if you did this right because this The Ledger would be able to actually provide the aggregations if it's designed right okay so if the Ledger is designed such that um you could say I want all of the records regarding this product release then The Ledger would be able to pull those out but you'd better be aware of the fact that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "um people are going to be wanting to access it that way they don't want every they don't want to see the best you know expanse of this Ledger with all of the injury they want to see just the specific entries for this product really or for this product line find out which releases there are so so there needs to be some way of of like saying okay for this release and this irrigation tell me the information for that now that that could be very easy if you have this Ledger you know designed right but you need to have that because then um I think the line would be drawn after this so so if I was going to draw a box around the registry it would it would include the aggregations would not probably include the verifier um could not include The Ledger registry because that's not part of it would include the bulk storage um maybe I don't know I guess can't use the private storage but it would then um include most of this over here it's just so but I would say there's a lot the line should be drawn like right there um these end user apps would be um uh uh logically not part of it so this is where I think um I I'm trying to support what dick wants because I think it's really important but it's not part of the actual registry itself it's like One Step Beyond that I see a bunch of hands so I'm going to stop there uh thanks Ray um yeah so so one um one aspect that we discussed earlier was really about the uh the right hand side what you have closer to the end user like is this software trustworthy that the peer-to-peer evaluation that's something we said last time that that would be another layer something on top"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "of it so in my opinion based on the discussions we had earlier this wouldn't be part of this entire box what you did label as skit registry at all uh so um uh I I agree with that uh that that the the line should be um but you it depends on what you want to put into your service um in other words this could be part of the service um but it's a different layer above the raw area right here but keep in mind what the purpose of this whole drawing is uh and we have a lot of examples to to look at from other working groups is is kind of the the boxes represent things that we really um find important for the minimum amount of work that we are doing just to get uh sort of to read an idea like what the minimalistic version looks like um and if Steve said like there is um like with the email service there's obviously lots of other things in a real in a real product for a variety of reasons um which we would then add on top of it uh and I think that would belong to that category likewise on the left hand side you distinguish between identities or uses of individual users rather than users that are sort of acting on half of a corporation and I think um that could be lumped together in one box that says like something like um identity information or authentication I don't know something like this and telling the text it talks about these uh aspects and also like I did put this bigger box around that so yeah I think those are once again and then also the when you talk about the product lines and the product releases um given like we also spoke about like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "the the lecture itself for what wouldn't distinguish I wouldn't look into the details of what's actually submitted so there may be lots of different things and the queries may be operating um maybe maybe able to find uh information at the different level of granularity whether that's an aggregate or something that is really detailed and that may be all sorts of things not just product lines and product releases and in some sense those are the artifacts uh in my opinion but um and whether that could also be a little bit abstract the way yeah but yeah uh let me just comment on that last point and actually on that first point too I I do agree that I should draw this box differently so I'll do that um I kind of did it this way because if I didn't put this box around it then it would cut the end user in half so uh so I will move that over and I think you're right and then this already have the user inside here but um the reason I think this is pretty important and I don't think you can get rid of the concept of product lines and releases and stuff is because um the The Ledger will need to be able definitely to find product lines and releases you can have as much other information as you want and this doesn't necessarily mean that um that um the the information block or whatever is not um just one big opaque block for for many like you could have a lower level here where you have just a ledger with um you know a big open space for anybody to put it in there and then one hash value something like that um that's that certainly uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "possible but but um if you're going to filter what goes in then I think you have to have the concept of an owner and then you have to say what it is to the extent that these users over here will be able to say I want information about this which is outside the concept of The Ledger because it has to be like World information that says here's an organization I know their name and their product line and their release and I have that and then that's everything else can be below whatever these people need to access it that's I think a minimum but uh it's certainly up for discussion okay go ahead Johnny sorry uh extra steps here um so thanks for putting us together Ray this is very interesting I think it's a uh probably workable flow chart I just don't think it's gonna it looks that much like skit as we've discussed it maybe we need to make some changes there but uh so first thing I would say is the user thing is terrific uh that is absolutely critical I don't know whether that's part of The Ledger or not but it is definitely required functionally um the other uh the other thing I would say is that um uh remembering that these are supplied Goods not necessarily just software uh the first software problem of aggregating and uh you know product lines and identifiers and so on and so forth is extremely difficult and uh we probably don't want to try to solve it here uh the other thing that sort of jumped out at me was that I think there's a lot of data that almost has to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "be in The Ledger that's in the right hand box uh the uh the the rats stuff for example um you know the I don't know about the product at least but I think you gotta I think that's got to be in there too I don't think the software uh you know title uh or product line hierarchy is really intrinsic in fact I think that's almost a reference thing that could be included in you know some single entry by the uh by the organization and the final thing that I wanted to mention is that so so I guess what I think is that later is going to be a lot bigger and the second thing the last thing was uh you know there's the certification Authority I think is uh a little bit of a magic happens here box and it's perfectly okay at this stage of the game uh but there's a lot going on in there as well so those are my comments for the meeting minutes quickly I didn't I missed the point that you said about rats the rats entities what it what it's about those they should they should be in The Ledger no okay uh no I don't think the rat's entity can be in a ledger that is that is like either a piece of software running in a cloud or on an iot device or something that is a is not an end user but a uh but the verifier though I mean isn't there a uh isn't there identifier in there that uh and to in order to for a given product release would then say would get information about how to verify the entity I think but where's the verifier things not in in my mind is not in actually in the registry this is the registry viewers of the transparency service so I was thinking that this entire box was outside let"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "um initially outside of The Ledger and of of the registry itself which was kind of the line here but I think now looking at it this part here would be um would be inside more inside the Box um but the verifier seems like it is not part of the of the skit registry it would be a user of the data and I didn't understand what you said you'd say it would be a lot bigger The Ledger or something yeah there's a lot more data in there that I think the left hand box and maybe you've you've uh maybe you've agreed uh already on that but uh guys can I just interject for a second because we've got we're already nearly 40 minutes in uh and there's a long queue um each of these short questions is soliciting very long answers and I wonder if we might be better served by getting the questions and comments kind of out because I've got one I've always got one Neil and Hank have just joined the queue um is everyone okay if we kind of get the comments and questions out and then get them all addressed kind of together so then that's going to be more efficient okay I'll make it as you do it I'll write them down on the minutes as well so we'll make sure the things are captured and then and then we can attack them because I fear we're going to have very similar comments and you'll just end up answer the same person like five times yeah good point good point right so sorry to interject but I just want to keep the time so Charlie are you are you done yeah no I'm fine I'm fine with that approach I guess the the overarching comment I want to make is this is quite a different block diagram than the one we have in the architecture dock let's see at there's a distinction here between a product in what's in the ietf to I have no problem with what um was written here by Ray there's a few"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "little nuances in here that I wanted to talk about which we can cover off you know if we do our jobs right with The Ledger and the receipts generates then the trust in the content is a simple check of the receipt the deeper audit as a result of that goes against The Ledger and that should be a a lot smaller subset of people doing those operations um so when I normally draw this I put the e-notary inside the skit and say hey the queries are against the storage brisk it not The Ledger but that's a nuance and the subtle deed that that raised drawn here um I've traveled there is some comments here on on Rats on the production side you could Envision a model where we finally get to the machine that's that's doing the production has to submit rats evidence into the system so as an audit we can make sure the machine wasn't hijacked as to whether the customers on the other side get to see the rats information seems to follow between a boundary that we have to decide whether is OSS code shows this or whether big companies provide their rats at a station of their machines to and that in itself gives some evidences where things are running talking about that I think we've mentioned before which is the queries against the data you probably want the last of a specific type from a certain specific supplier like seeing the anti-malware you're really kind of interested in the last result not necessarily the the previous 2000 results right yeah I also think of Bob's Seafood example uh but yeah I have to run actually but I think this is a great start Ray I really appreciate the uh kind of teasing out of some of the issues here I think we're really going to get to the to the details now so so basically what I'm thinking here is what you've written as Ledger I think more of a skip the product and the actual Talking To The Ledger to do the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "deeper audit is what we've put in the working group and so forth as a building block um the certificate Authority is I think is raised is and Charles have mentioned is just there but if it's against the receipt and we're moving towards something else until conceptually sits there as somebody has to have policy of who they trust those are the only comments I had right thanks for Jones okay Sean I think you next oh fabulous um yeah so thank you um I I would Echo that I think we we need to tease these issues out and these are indeed the issues that are often raised mostly by by dick um but I do think we need to find ways of keeping the specifics out of out of skit as we've mentioned you know it's not necessarily just software even when we're talking about software supply chain there are many other types of artifacts and products and claims that need to be transported and I'm wondering why we can't use the feed concept that's already that's already in the spec to do this kind of search and differentiation and if we can't whether we should okay that's my comment Neil uh great uh so I I agree it I I see this diagram as being helpful uh in the same sort of way that use cases are to frame the functionality from a user perspective and so that's helpful um I think Steve has done a great job in the document Google doc of connecting some of the points back to the architecture and the issues and I think we would be most productive if we tried to get back to that and look at specific issues specific text in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "document and use this to kind of frame um those issues like scalability so you know this whole concept of a feed exactly as John said already exists in the architecture it seems to relate very closely to this notion of how a user would find product lines that are of interest to them and so on so I I would suggest that we move back to that and um uh in general I I think I I don't know if there's already an issue related to scalability I think it would be helpful to do something um along this line that tried to estimate you know how can this thing scale to what I guess we all would hope and dream that you know it's used for kind of everything that you care about with Supply chains which is like everything in the world folks so curious to to try to move the discussion back to issues on a document um talk about the document from Steve which document specifically are you referring to to the architecture document or do some other document uh as I saw it Steve has a whole bunch of comments on the right that say yeah this thing is in Issue 11 or issue 17. as we were discussing last week that's what I'm talking about okay the issue tracker okay linking raise you know elucidation of kind of some user challenges to the existing draft that I I guess you know we're trying to get um a revised draft published before the meeting or something what's our timing uh on on that and how can we uh help improve it and and in particular this whole transparent the the terminology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "discussion you know I was going through I was reading the document as edited by I forget who um to to be more precise with terminology and I think getting that adopted because I think it's it's helpful would help everybody review it uh Steve is that the link to the to the issues that you that were just mentioned I want to copy the the link over yeah so what I was just trying to do was as Ray was going through the dark I was just trying to capture what is already captured in the issues so we don't lose uh new points so basically the doc is great I actually put a link to the doc in one of the issues around it but it was just to Neil's Point as we're going through it you just don't want to lose the conversation as notes in this particular meeting any action items goes back to issues we have on the architecture done okay um to make sure that I put the correct link into the meeting minute uh can you post it again so I I copy it over you want the link to this document no no no the the link to the issues that uh Steve hey honest it's already captured I we put it under Steve's um like notes on there when he when he posted the first time so I put it on the notes you put it there I can't see the link yeah if you scroll all the way to Steve uh comment we have there oh issues 18. yeah oh I see okay got it thank you uh next one Hank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "sorry I'm muted uh hi this is Hank yeah so um I I understand why rats is in the um the diagram I think Red's entity is is all things that says to offer so that has to be more uh specialized Monero um I think all of these boxes can benefit from some Reds roles and I would maybe in the very first iteration remove them so we can add them at a later step when it is more consistent uh from the point of view of skit I think Ray if that is uh if you're comfortable with that if we add them but I think in more places and more consistently okay okay so um let me try to just quickly respond as needed to some of these um yeah I did not try to start from the existing architecture and and modify it what I did was say um okay Clean Slate What's it gonna have to look like um and then uh went from there and these boxes as I was trying to say um don't actually necessarily represent real things but are just Concepts within what has to go into the Ledger or how the day the information needs to be managed so that you can check things that are going in or coming out um I do think that that you're not going to be able to get away from some sort of specification of say organizations and offer for them to to categorize their their entries such that they can be easily looked up and and however that is and I think that for most software and Hardware things uh in fact most products in general they have these Concepts that have been outlined by many schema organizations like schema.org and this ISO standard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "for talking about organizations and product lines and releases so so um to so I think those will have to be in there somehow so to just say okay we're going to have an empty box or anything can go in there you can do it that way but then you'd have to add this stuff later um and you can do you know that's one way to approach it is to say okay we're going to have one big empty box with nothing in it except just a hash code and then then you start adding the stuff in and you add just a minimum of maybe a few things like this organization product line and stuff just to fill that in and then allow so much specification for contact names and street address and all that I certainly don't want to Define any of that um but uh the certificate uh yeah so these things on the right could also be submitting back into the Ledger certainly um I just uh was thinking these were mainly going to be recipients of information that was submitted so if you do want to run a rats entity you are going to be some sort of a organization the stuff submitting stuff in The Ledger such that these can be verified like that um the feed concept I don't actually fully understand um yet so I'll have to take a look at that to see but it's probably the same as this looking at what comes out of the Ledger here um I and um yes this is not supposed to replace the work on the existing documents or anything this is more of a a sort of a fill in the gap between a you the use cases and the architecture to make sure that we say okay here's our kind of our use case at the very high level we talked"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "about those this is sort of a mid-level addressing between like the use case a little bit more concretely and then um trying to fill understand what an e-notary might have to do on this side especially um so uh and then the rats thing um and and a lot of a lot of these things are are not like I could try to put arrows around all kinds of things here or put rats in each deal no I didn't do that because I wanted to try to make it simple so um this is just the largest Sky View like what are the big features that that are I think are gonna have to be um like included in the concept because for example if you design your Ledger without the concept of knowing what the product models and releases are um it's going to be hard to look through it uh it's going to be hard to create these product line aggregations because the users over here are going to want to say I have this organization's product from the release give me all the information about it so I can make my evaluation so I'm trying to look at this is the actual use um for the kind of use cases that dick was talking about we also had the B2B evaluations of um people trying to use a product in their product and so instead of showing it as a chain this has a feedback loop going to the next user I think that's um all of the answers that I have thanks thanks um um the questioning for the last few minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "eight minutes or so is going to be on how can we update the document to capture some of the discussions we just had and also the the email exchange um to to produce a new um document version which reflects some of that terminology as well as the sort of like what you call Skyview Steve do you have a view on that well I was actually going to say what you basically just said is what are the action items from this because I think there's two pieces to this one as we were discussing the architecture terminology one of the things we were balancing was the technical accuracy and the practicality of how you could convey this to Consumers um because the it might say well to the average Layman that wants to be able to use this service uh as part of their secure supply chain so I think one side of the surfaced that you know Ray was when he's going through the doctors certain terminology that may or may not have fit the current terminology that's a good example we need to fix that there's others where I think he was introducing some great Concepts like whether the aggregate of others do we have those things captured in the architecture should they be tracked as new issues so that we've been you know continue to chip away at this um or are they external Concepts that are you know on top of like that might even be a product specific use case or it might just be a particular um use case of a standard skip registry let's track the action items and issues and then link back to this doc but this way we have the issues of the uh the term issues on the architecture dock as our indexing of how to make sure we don't lose yeah well practically speaking we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "uh till next Monday um to submit an architecture version I so the reason why we started this discussion about this box was because it was related to the question about like how the whole thing should be called um and that may um well it seems that that question hasn't really been answered um by this diagram but uh but it gave us a couple of additional issues to think about so so capturing those issues I think is important but um on the positive note uh in terms of advancing the document and having something to submit by next Monday we also had some agreement on some of the terminology uh uh as I have seen so uh that's fantastic um and the other things which will have to be worked out uh and thanks Steve for capturing some of those uh open issues and I have uh some more from today's meeting in the in the meeting minutes as well Neil put in the chat um I think it would be helpful if we accepted the uh pull request on vast terminology overhaul just because it I in my opinion it cleans a bunch of things up pretty effectively and it's hard to read the document um I if if that's the case if we want it it just makes it easier to read the document because there's an official version of it that's uh available so um is there pushback on that General thrust there's been a lot of commentary on it it just seems like there's still stuff to tweak but it would make sense to um get that back in the main line of of the the repo yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "um so this is Hank uh I might have an answer to this ultimately that is a suggestion I think yes it's worthwhile to merge now because it becomes a little bit uh clunky it's vast uh also um I want to highlight that um Ori you Ned and Steve made valuable contributions that are captured as comments not only as uh change requests uh also some of the change requests for example coming from Ori have have to be um have to be uh discussed uh I think most of them are sane but I think people have to agree and so um merging the portal request might make them less visible for now so please keep in mind uh emerged pull request uh like this seg 16 will include a ton of good suggestions that we will have to unearth again okay so they're not gone or ignored especially uh down below where net uh commented a lot and he's not here anymore in this call about normative language and such uh um they are not ignored if you put it without addressing them okay I think you have to make them very clear Hank can we capture anything that wasn't already added to your PR like any of the comments that are open issues can we just create an issue out of those so that we don't lose that it's a ton it's I would say this is uh these are like 30 to 40 issues capturing them is not something we can do if we want to have a publishable idea uh next week Monday um yes we should do that but um I think I think or is uh because he provided suggestions hinting that's a cool idea um that is that these are the easiest to address um so I I give them the best chance to be in the Monday version um the others really have to become issues uh I guess yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "okay I'm traveling back today so I can see what I can do to help capture the loose ends in the next couple of days cool that would be awesome thank you um yeah um so I think what if we merge that Beyond we definitely have to keep some issues open specifically on the transparency service which triggered this whole debate um it's so it's it's obviously working progress uh but I I think I agree with Neil that we need to sort of like create a version of the document a snapshot that captures um at least to some extent our understanding uh and and thanks to everyone who has uh sort of contributed to to the text uh in that document so but um I think what I what we could ask for like it obviously there's not enough time to go through this now uh to the BR now but uh it's basically a request to everyone to have a look at that VR and uh to indicate like where whether they are kind of happy with this um merging with it and and sort of capturing the open issues uh knowing that there will be lots of open issues so we can we can move forward and then data the open issues one by one okay I didn't hear anyone screaming I'm going to try to look at that more carefully after I after I did this this View now I think I have I can provide some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "some better feedback to the exact document thanks well Ray your your uh contribution was extremely valuable because uh it made us um talk about the different components and and uh we have a bunch of open issues and we obviously there's a agreement on uh some of the aspects um so we need to then see how we best fold in like the the whole identity discussion uh user authentication Etc whatever you want to call it um for example so so that's that's great yeah I just wanted to say should we I mean are we going to merge it right away or should we if we want to tweak it should we have pull requests that uh build on that particular Branch or like you know how do we try to make progress in the next week yeah um let me do the following I will look through and reach out to some of the folks who contributed and see what it um they they are okay uh with it from from the immediate feedback I I don't get um sort of like I didn't hear anyone screaming uh so so it looks uh pretty good but I don't want to um ignore someone's uh feedback and I haven't I haven't checked the the uh the latest um sort of issues there so there was a lot of discussion on that PR is that does that make sense but your your request is obviously um super timely given that we have the uh draft submission deadline upcoming next Monday so we need to do something sooner rather than later and we can still um make further progress before the IDF meeting itself after the after the deadline okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "good um we are out of time so I would say uh thank you all uh for the discussion and thanks Ray for leading today's um sort of description of the terminology and the architectural building blocks and and thank you Steve for uh capturing issues and for advancing that work yeah thanks for letting me present this appreciate it bye-bye thank you yeah thanks Ray thanks a lot thank you"
  }
]
