[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "uh good morning everyone welcome to the mock buff i think we'll get started in just a minute so find your seats i'm thinking foreign okay folks uh let's get started for those of you who haven't seen gritty before the delightful figure in front of you is the mascot of the philadelphia flyers and a beloved figure there in philadelphia i regret that i'm not able to join you myself unfortunately i managed to blow out my back right before getting on the plane uh and the combination didn't seem like a good one so uh you are ably represented in the room by my colleague alan alan say hi hello good morning everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "alan will be handling all of the um in-room q management etc and we'll be trying to drive the sleds and this together first and foremost note well uh something not on the note well but we've been asked to emphasize for those of you in the room is that it is very important to keep your masks on if you need to actively eat or drink please step into the hall and do that but while you're in the room please leave your mask on unless you're actively speaking at one of the mics and i think you'll find that the mics are sensitive enough that you'll be able to um to be heard just fine if you choose to leave them on even there uh the noteworld that you see let me just jump in real quick ted and say i think i see a few folks maybe not wearing masks so just double check if you can touch your face and there's not a mask there try to fix that go ahead uh uh somebody noted in the chat that it appears they're getting a little bit of distortion from my mic i've moved it a little bit further away hopefully that helps um this is the note well uh since we're wednesday of the week you've probably seen it before but just as a reminder uh please note that you are responsible for maintaining your conduct according to each of the bcps you see listed below this is our agenda first i want to say thank you to hunter and to luke lucas will be taking notes locally and uploading them later and lucas is sorry luca is uh doing um a backup there so we do have scribes we very much appreciate that uh the second thing to remind you is that because this is a buff there will be a set of buff questions you'll see a preview in just a moment that means that we will be using the question tool that's part of the uh the system the show of hands tool uh if you're on the the desktop system it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "between the bell and the file folder uh looks like a little um chart so please make sure that if you're in the room uh that you're also logged in to one of the the meet echo systems so that you're able to participate in those questions uh i think this is a pretty standard agenda for above and that we're going to go through the charter we'll then have discussion and then go through the buff questions and time permitting and if it still seems appropriate there's a technical presentation which was volunteered are there any questions on the agenda seeing none here is a preview of the buff question so these are the questions that we'll be asking the community after we've gone through the charter so each of you please as you're considering the charter or changes you'd like to see in it or discussion about it make sure that you keep in mind these questions does the community think that the problem statement is clear well scoped solvable and useful we will then ask for folks willing to review the document or comment on the mailing list if a working group is formed will then ask if a working group should be formed uh and then we'll ask anybody who doesn't think it should be formed if they want to address the buff to express their concerns so those are the questions that you should have in mind as we go through the charter the charter has been broken up into uh different sections uh to go with the presentation style of pdf for those of you who prefer to see it in a single sheet there's also a version in the meeting materials in that format if you'd prefer it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "so the first part of the chart reads media over quick will develop a simple low latency media delivery solution for ingest and distribution this solution may address use cases including live streaming gaming and media conferencing and will scale efficiently the solution will support both web browsers and non-browser endpoints the work focuses on building protocol mechanisms for publication of media and means to identify and receive the media the media publication protocol will be a push protocol for sending media including audio video and timed metadata such as closed captions and cue points the common protocol for publishing media over ingest and distribution will support one or more media formats an interoperable way to request media and encodings rate adaptation strategies based on changing codec rates changing chosen media encoding qualities cache friendly media mechanisms the media to name and receive media will enable requesting the server start sending media related to a given point in the stream selection of desired encoding choosing language bitrate etc media will be mapped onto underlying quick mechanisms quick streams and or quick datagrams and can be used over raw quick or web transport the proposed solution will provide extensibility for supporting different media formats and shall specify a mandatory to implement media format to ensure interoperability support for multiple media types and media encodings shall be proposed the solution will specify a simple method of authentication to access media as well as a mechanism for carrying information enabling additional decryption of media payloads where required the working group will define moq such"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "that the media publication protocol can leverage coordinating relays caches or replication points wherever applicable to improve the delivery performance media will be encrypted possibly end and encrypted for certain use cases the keying mechanisms for media confidentiality is however outside the scope of this working group even when media is end-to-end encrypted the relays can access metadata needed for caching such as time stamps making media forwarding decisions such as drop or delay under congestion and so on this working group will not propose changes to the underlying quick transport but may propose requirements for quick extensions to the quick working group this working group will not define signaling mechanisms for discovery of relay or media producers or consumers this working group will coordinate with a quick and web transport working groups as needed it will liaise with mpeg-dash forum and the w3c web transport as appropriate here are the milestones currently proposed working group adoption of protocol specification for common media publication protocol over quick working group adoption of protocol specification for datagram extension to media publication protocol over quick working group adoption of protocol specification for media subscription protocol over quick working group adoption of architecture specification for common media delivery protocol over quick working group adoption of use cases and requirements document for media delivery over quick and a decision about whether to forward to isg for publication to be made later by working group consensus each of which then results in one being forwarded to the iasg so that is a quick run through the charter you should also all have the access to it and the meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "materials if you wish to refer to it directly the cues are open for discussion please remember to use the meet echo queue to make sure that we have that correctly all right first step is sanjay hi this is sanjay mishra if ted if you can go back to your opening description of the charter so the second sentence here says this solution may address use cases my question is that shouldn't we be a little bit more uh clear about it that the intent is to define use cases so should we say shall or something more uh persistent that you know we do plan to do something here than just saying may uh so there's a little bit of discussion on the list and the reason uh that it's uh worded this way at the moment is because uh it's may address use places including and so the including may there may also be use cases which are not included so it's not more definite than that so if we want to make it more different we could update this to say i may address use cases which shall include at least and then include these and then leave open what what else is included would you prefer that wording sorry i had walked away from the mic yes i think that makes sense to me okay can i ask you to open a pr or would you like one of us to do it i can do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "okay thank you thank you uh victor so one thing i just realized is uh in uh on the second slide uh in common in the charter uh we say for push protocol a way to request media but request is fundamentally not a push operation it's kind of a pull operation so we might want to be more vague about what specifically we want the push protocol to do in terms of media form of negotiation because it as it stands right now it makes it sounds like even even close oh okay remember that crosstalk is not audible to the hybrid user so please repeat anything that said directly there okay uh is this better oh so the uh regarding on the second slide there is a part where we say request encode media form as an encoding uh but request is a pull operation which is probably uh more complicated than something we want in a baseline push protocol because often for push cases i just have one format and i want to peer know what that format is but i might not necessarily want to request or negotiate it so i think we need to make the wording there uh more uh generic and lower the requirements for the push protocol and or move parts of it to the mechanism to name and receive media so it sounds like push is making some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "implications for you um and i guess as the other folks come to the mic line please consider whether there's a different phrase than push that captures what you believe that protocol is likely to do because i i do agree that there are some aspects of what's described here uh that are not purely push protocol but i think are intended to you know cause a push to begin so to speak and uh we may need a different phrase for that can i clarify uh sorry uh i don't have objection to push i think push is very good i it's more as a connotation to requests that worry me okay thanks julius uh hello uh so uh i think the intent here is to allow also to negotiate parameters such as svc or simulcast but uh i'm wondering whether we should be explicit about it i mean is the charter currently written in such a way that people in the future might claim that similar negotiating the simulcast structure or negotiating svc is out of scope if people think that it is clear enough that i'm fine with that but i'm wondering whether that should be made explicit is that a question for someone in particular or to the room no no it is a comment about the current charter okay saying that i'm a little bit worried whether this is too restrictive or not okay uh colin uh colin johnson cisco uh the i think when we talk about the the push like one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "of the use cases like on the ingest you might only have one thing to push but on the distribution sort of approach like one of our very one of our key use cases is be able to request bit streams at different uh you know bit rates effectively at some level right that's a key fundamental part of this stuff so i think the fact that though it is a push protocol does not mean there's no information flowing in the opposite direction telling something what to push so i think we just need to phrase this in a way of you know there's some information you know you you could say what you want pushed in some sort of way right and we've sort of described in the outline here so i just i i don't think people can take push protocol to mean that information only goes one direction it's not like our congestion our security nothing would work with that it's it it is uh there's a certain information you can indicate about what's what's being pushed uh to you and sometimes there's only one thing to push that's fine but other times there might be a little bit of information that's like even the sort of correlating uri name of what which one of many streams a server might support that it needs to push to you thanks so i i think the text in the charter is pretty good right now i just think that we we need to understand it to mean it in that context kyle kyle rose akamai is this thing on um so i note that the charter says um or so far the draft charter says uh the solution may address use cases including live streaming gaming and media conferencing these are very different use cases it really feels like i mean so for instance um gaming is uh is something that wants to be low latency in one direction but doesn't require interactivity media conferencing is requires interactivity low latency interactivity in both directions live streaming can have an arbitrarily high hand wave latency depending on what's what is uh acceptable to the to both customers and you know viewers and and content providers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "it seems like one of the reasons why the quick working group was successful is they picked a particular use case which was http and implemented that and that seems like a better approach is like pick a single use case and have other people in the room with future use cases that you know will basically say okay uh let's let's make sure that whatever we do here doesn't preclude these future use cases but just kind of scale it back a little bit rather than trying to boil the ocean that's my two cents thanks uh luke hi uh going back to push versus pool really quickly um i don't think the charter needs to specify push i think it's um if anything it's a technical detail we're trying to reduce latency we're trying to make it simpler but end of the day two the media endpoints need to coordinate um you could feasibly have you know the other end request uh uh and i think that there's a whole lot of uh room there and there's gonna be debate in the future if you say push protocol like is this technically a push protocol but i said i want something so i would just remove that from the charter remove push versus pull just it's a protocol for sending media it doesn't matter who asks for the data thanks victor hello i have one clarification question so i am emil from orwenj oh just next time please remember to uh do hear me yes but just next time remember to join the queue okay can you show the second slide yeah my name is emil i work for orange and you say it's a common protocol for publishing over ingest on distribution does it mean that it will be the same protocol for for ingesting the content and for distributing the content i think that's the intention yes it's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "requirement okay good thanks victor hello again uh so to elaborate on push versus pull uh i think the fundamental distinction i'm trying to make here is that there is a part of the protocol that's responsible for getting media from one point to another and like specifying how it's actually transferred and then there is all of the negotiation and side channel and to some extent the reason we're trying to kind of draw the line between different drafts is that the part where you send media and the exact method is approach it should be common regardless of what you're doing but depending on your specific use case uh the actual things you will negotiate etc will be different so for instance requesting media makes sense in if in case you're uh okay so those are details but the point i'm trying to make is the part we're trying to say i want to separate is the part where the media gets transferred versus any control information thanks no mozzanaty cisco um i think i agree with luke that the push versus pull is probably you know not something that needs to be flushed out in the charter it's uh i don't think it's just a nuance i think it is going to be a lot more technical detail and i think people have different ideas in the room and like what victor calls push i don't think some others would call push um i think it's correct to have uh the text about requesting receivers requesting uh in the charter i think that that makes sense i don't think we should have something that says you know uh uh publishers push"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "i think that that goes too far and we need to uh work in the you know work the details of what does it actually mean to to publish is it a request from the server to tell you to go ahead you know you can start publishing and do we want a symmetric protocol where it's the same whether you're publishing or subscribing it's a request and a response and the response can be not immediate or synchronous but long-lived it could it could send you know objects over seconds uh in response to that request i think those details need to be flushed out in documents and not in the in the charter and one final point on what julius mentioned for svc and various encodings i think the current text already captures the rated adaptation strategies with different codecs codec rates and qualities and encodings i think that already captures um all that we want for the different media formats that that people are interested in thank you bernard uh yeah i support kyle's comment that this is boiling the ocean uh the use cases that are described are extremely different um and i think my personal view is that the focus here should be on live streaming uh which in particular you know needs to low latency but also can benefit from caching um and the gaming some of the gaming use cases are extremely different they don't use caching um and and uh conferencing is another whole whole problem of real-time conferencing um so i think i think it needs more focus there's enough work in here for like three or four working groups thank you uh stefan so two things uh first i support what kyle and bernard said um i've said that before uh the second thing is i'm i'm worried about uh specifying a mandatory media format given the current political climate i mean realistically the choice nowadays is between the vp9 av1 world and the hvc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "vvc world for the video stuff um that's scary right now uh as those of us who listen in what's going on in dbp and w3c and places like that have already experienced there are entirely too many lawyers involved i would suggest to remove this i would i know that interoperability is a high goal blah blah blah but i would not go it's way too painful thank you yeah we can hear you speak up just a bit okay cool um uh i i kind of wanted to touch a bit upon the use cases and uh and you know should we cover all this nameless questions or not so one of the main trends i see why mock was formed um even when we had something like a dash or um hls uh was was a non-web bodies on one side was that some of the use cases that we are seeing there's a trend where uh use cases that involve uh streaming and also the interactivity they're combining and and we don't have a solution to support anything like that today um either one is very complicated or otherwise it's very latency driven cannot meet the interactive requirements and that's true can you slow down just a little bit i'm having a hard time getting your words okay so i'll i'll try uh second technique so uh the point i was trying to say is that there's a lot of new use cases that's coming where uh the streaming world is trying to move towards bringing in interactivity aspects and and uh interactive world is trying to bring you to the scaling aspects uh and and that's driving the mock work that's that's what way where i felt that the today's solutions either the webrtc being complex on one side or the the existing low latency dash or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "or the other speaking solutions they are not able to meet the interactivity requirements and most of the use cases that have been written there they have a common theme of having uh low latency and interactivity and scale uh in common in there can all does all these use cases need caching may not uh but most of them do need to do benefit from having cash in so even though i do feel like it might be boiling the ocean but they are only these things are need to be solved for today's and tomorrow's use cases and hence a new working group and mock i think would be a good place for that and on the push versus school it might be technical at this point in time but i i tend to agree with what victor was uh pointing out saying that regardless of how the media is asked how the media is delivered should be common across both ingest and distribution side uh if you want to use the word push or pull or a different terminology that's totally fine but we need to capture that aspect somewhere in the chapter thank you okay so uh ellen and i have uh discussed this a little bit in a side channel and it seems like the discussion of whether the phrase push should be there is kind of rat holing a little bit um and so uh i think what we'd like to say as chairs is that we accept that this is a design decision to be made by the working group and that the exact phrasing uh to describe the protocol could be uh filigreed or something very different than push but we're going to set that aside uh functionally accept the pr that was just filed to remove the push from the charter and and move on to the more substantive discussions because that seems to be a bit of a rat hole uh it doesn't seem to be a bit of a rat hole um to talk about uh how many use cases we're going to support and so i think um one of the things in the current charter is an attempt to identify uh the high uh the high value ones that are currently kind of active um in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "uh in in the industry at the moment um but leave the um the will support there to um uh to be a little bit uh vaguer than that and so i think it would be very useful if folks could focus on whether picking one of these wouldn't have bad long-term consequences because i think in the in the chat it's been raised by a couple of people that it might be restrictive and then picking two might be better than one picking three might be better than two so i think some additional discussion on that is probably needed all right thanks uh let's see uh sanjay hi uh this is sanjay mishra from verizon um i also have questions as i was reading the charter i also struggled with the with the use cases um that are so divergent in nature each of those so i think i agree that it makes sense to have a charter that basically scopes out all the relevant work that needs to be done but i think it might be helpful once if the working group is formed that some discussion happens that sort of says you know what is the priority can we can we take a live streaming use case as the first example of that working group will take on or versus you know media conferencing or live streaming or live gaming because each of these are very different use cases and have their own different requirements in terms of what the latency really means and and so so forth so i think it's probably worth looking at it that there's some prioritization made and working group as a whole decides that this is the use case we want to work unless there are enough people that will work independently on each of these use cases you know which is really really very wide so i think it may be better to have have one focus and then get that out of the way and then take the next use case and so on thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "thank you uh york yeah thanks i i just wanted to second the point that stefan made i personally i don't care too much about can you get a little bit closer to the mic please personally i wanted to second the point that stefan made personally i don't care too much about media encoding but it seems to be hard to pick to agree on a single one we had had issues with that before and especially given the zoo of use cases that we currently have it may not be even possible to pick something sensible that would make i would make it across all these cases beyond the political stuff that stefan pointed out thanks spencer okay spencer dawkins um i've got two things but let me just focus on the one we're talking about for now the discussion about the use cases i agree with but i wanted to go a little bit further on that one of the questions i've asked on the mailing list was about how we would you know whether there's a relationship between this and work in avt core and the answer on the mailing list was there's not a relationship with abt core especially if we're getting down to the interactive uh use cases um i'm not sure i'm not sure if i'm not sure if i agree with that you know i mean i'm just mostly asking if other people uh are buying that but that that has a lot to like i say it has a lot to do with the use cases that are in scope if the use cases that are in scope are live"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "live media use cases i i think it is i think it is clear that there's not a relationship or not a close relationship but i think that if mock is also targeting interactive applica use cases it's a lot harder to say that there's not one um do should i there's people there's people in line behind me so i will stop there say what you want what what should we change make a suggestion i i'm informed by cullen behind me that i have not said anything yet so uh i will i will i will take a shot at uh saying something which is basically uh the definition of the uh of like i say the definition of the use cases can or could point to live media as defined in the mock requirements draft which is an individual draft and has no standing but i'm saying it does have a definition for that in there that could be used to distinguish the use cases that are in scope and that i'm not telling you that's the right answer i'm telling you that that would be a concrete suggestion that makes sense that was concrete thanks vince cullen jennings um i i sort of want to address this this use case thing i think that the the people that have been working on this for the past you know a couple years and six months and having lots of conversations on this you know we sort of tried to think about do we just want the way we split up the different ways of splitting apart the work we're going to do do we just do ingress or do we just do distribution or do we do both do both and then the thing is there's huge efficiency gains of what you want to do and so you can look at that list of things and go oh wow that's a wide list of use cases they're very different but what we do at ietf is trying to create a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "single generic tool that's pretty simple and i'll talk about what the tool is that this is creating here that covers multiple things i mean http you can use it for banking websites you can use it for news websites you can use it for gaming i mean you can even send you know machine calls over it it's a generic tool so the tool that we're trying to create here is a low latency highly scalable video system and uh we do both ingress and distribution because if you don't do both you end up with mapping problems between the two so that's the real incentive there and we're not talking about creating different tools for all of those use cases we're talking about creating one tool that sort of will meet to varying degrees each one of those use cases and that tool is a low latency highly uh scalable simple sort of uh video up and down system and i i don't think there's you know if you say oh we're only going to deal with um you know one of those use cases you end up with there's already better solutions in the marketplace for it you could use webrtc you could go use hls dash the thing is when you want to combine these things together and have a unified tool and way of doing it that's when you get to this work making sense so i don't really care if people remove some of those use cases or whatever that's not we can remove all the use cases and mention of them from the charter but the important thing to me is the tool we're creating is going to end up being useful for all of those use cases no matter what we say in this right like that's that's the tool we want to create here so it's really important to me that we keep the scope of the work in the in the charter that you know as it is that we don't just try and great greatly scope it down because it has no value if you take a smaller piece than this and people just the people doing the work just aren't going to be willing to work on it is not it's not a huge value thing um and we need it to be common we need to meet a bunch of these use cases so that we can get the synergy of the different groups of people that all need to work on this to bring something together so i think it really needs to proceed as it is thanks thank you carol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "hey can you hear me yes awesome um i came to say almost the same thing that colin said so i in terms of use cases i think if we go with just like a live streaming use case right so it's very easy to there's already like dash hls all these different solutions that um sort of works right so but um i think it's important to build a solution that works for different use cases and we already see the requirements even within live streaming there are use cases where latency of 10 seconds is fine uh but there are requirements where latency of subsequent is needed for interactivity right so and like where do you draw the line where it's like yeah like at this latency you need a different protocol and it's also very difficult to build deploy and run the services if for every single like for for very similar use cases you have to essentially use different protocols with different infrastructure so having something um that works uh for a variety of cases is uh would be very very beneficial and i understand there's definitely it's hard problem uh hopefully we can at least try to solve it um the second point i want to like related to charter phrasing i um you know i think in the beginning of the charter there is a phrase about interval way to request median encodings i have slight problem with wording requests because i think it sort of implies that someone is asked like that someone has to ask uh about the uh the quality the encodings that being sent but i think it's important to support the cases where like for example whoever is sending media can decide what the quality to send so like basically what i'm talking about the server server server driven uh decisions versus client driven decisions and we need to support both"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "thank you thanks uh jonathan hi jonathan rosenberg five nine uh two comments first uh wanted to respond to stefan wenger and disagree uh i do think we should make sure we produce something that has a minimum uh mandatory codex i think we are at the point now on the internet where we can do that largely due to the very painful work that happened before that many of us went through uh opus and av1 being the result um so that's comment number one comment number two on the wording on the charter um one thought uh or a possible suggestion is to think of this as a published subscribe system because the where the publishing effectively takes care of the push and subscribers on the receive side i think if you frame it as publish subscribe a lot of the problems that we need to address with the protocol become very clear naming and identification uh how you create and establish subscriptions how you choose amongst formats uh or all the things buffering and re-transmission caching from the publisher the subscriber all become fairly clear and understood concepts so i apologize i did read the docs but have not followed the list so recently so that may have been discussed but that's one suggestion thanks uh philip philhan baker yeah a couple of uh charter tweets could you go to slide number three well the charter three uh where it says um shall specify mandarin media format i'd like to make that a may and the reason for that is interoperability is a property of systems and when i build systems i really do not care what the mandatory to implement of jose or pkcs7 or whatever i might be using is when i build the system that's the point at which i'm going to choose my mandatory to implement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "algorithms and unless you've got a key exchange you're not going to have interop anyway so i don't want to have that argument here but i'd like to defer it so that working group can have it so if we make that in may so that's the first uh tweak i'd like to make and then when we go to the uh where it mentions end to end encryption i don't know which slide that's on i'm afraid i'd like to make that ends plural to ends and i know that we're very big on end to end that doesn't work in security because it's not just alice and bob and there's mention of these relay servers getting unencrypted metadata i want to be able to encrypt it and i want to have that in the first version of the spec rather than coming back for abyss or a new charter group just to be able to encrypt the metadata which should have been encrypted all along so i'd like to the charter to recognize that there's a plurality of ends and the encryption mechanism should allow for that thanks uh luke hi luke from twitch um so the first thing is media formats is a little vague at least in the media world i don't know if it's referring to a container or a codec definitely there should be a mandatory container but mandatory codec is kind of a deal breaker for distribution at least because a lot of the times we don't have control over whether it was encoded uh and you end up just having a lock-in you know you just force this one old codec to be used till the end of the day end of days the second thing is for use cases uh real time is hard uh and webrtc does a good job these days um it's it's complicated uh but also trying to tackle real time ourselves is complicated uh it might even be a bit of a scope creep um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "the real use case at least we see is interactive use cases where real time like conversational latency isn't required but you have the ability to buffer more if needed on a viewer by viewer basis so it's really hard to talk about this and put it in the charter but i would focus more just on like interactive is the word i think gaming and conferencing is just is kind of difficult honestly um but we definitely want to avoid the current situation where you have to pick a protocol per latency budget uh it's it's awful that one viewer has to get webrtc because they need real time and then somebody else needs to get hls because they have a poor network um so that's the big thing i think that we want to want to solve is try and spread out the use cases um and unfortunately that means tackling more areas okay thank you uh leslie hi uh leslie daigle and um for the purposes of this i'll just observe that i'm the co-chair of the mops working group um i don't have an issue with the text of the charter per se insofar as i think it does accurately and concretely describe the work that people have been working on this for a year would like to do and i suspect that work can be achieved however comma i'm a little worried particularly when colin says we build general protocols uh for multiplicity of use cases and purposes that the people who have been working on it for the last year aren't really the whole of the universe of people who are delivering video over ip i think there are some pretty significant audiences not represented in the room and that's okay as long as you understand that and as long as we don't in a year's time or two years time say well now we have the ultimate media transport over quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "and anybody who wants to do any delivery over over ip any video delivery over ip have to use this protocol even if it wasn't designed for your use cases the first first few lines of the charter of the mops working group internet wide and within domain ip delivered media is widespread leading to significant technology developments across industries not traditionally thought of as internet technology developers or operators as well as considerable quantities of traffic on local and transit networks so we spent a couple of years trying to attract some of those audiences into the itf and and i think that what we really need here is to make sure that mock doesn't continue forward ignorant of the existence of mops and uh and doing unlinked work so we're mops we're here to help let me just maybe pause and ask i i see there are a lot of people in this room and online so and but i don't know who shows up to mop so do you feel like that some at least the mops people are here are you here there are certainly some mops people here and that's a good thing tm uh however comma again damn commas um however we're we're actually trying to draw more people from the sva cta other organizations into the ietf in general so you know we can help be a conduit if you will but just don't don't suffer from the closed world assumption and think that that everything that all necessary opinions have been represented thanks uh leslie could you add a pr to add mop to the list that the working group will will coordinate with i see a thumbs up i think okay okay uh magnus yeah magnus wesley and erickson i want to talk about the media format i've probably partly blamed for some of this formulation because i think at fostered a view in some discussions with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the proponents here at last my thing and my intention was really enough from my perspective it is we're talking about isobase media files cms or things like that or potentially are you using rtp payloads in general with some metadata around this to make it work but i kind of see that probably should soften the welding here about because it does depend on the usage where you deploy it etc and and there are a few different cases here which might have different choices on how they want to use it so but it's definitely i mean the general aspect of you need to take the media formulas into account this work is clear and i think it's crucial to ensure that multiple can be supported okay thanks occur uh a few points um uh i agree with luke that it's important to specify whether this is really for you know this is for video conferencing type applications or for streaming applications they are different um and i understand jdr's point that they kind of trade in each other but like they're different um so knowing what we're targeting is important um i'm i went through the text on this about encryption and i find it extraordinarily puzzling um so first of all quick is always encrypted and quick has his own king king exchange so i don't understand like what any of this text really means it appears to be something about an encryption on top of quick um but um it makes some major revisions or actually sell something that like like people can understand um so um i also understand really what a simple method of authentication to access media is or for enabling additional descriptions so um perhaps someone can fix that stuff but um i think the charter needs to be i'm and maybe it's all and i'm i'm not saying that like structurally what he's being supposed to do is fine because i don't understand it but i'm saying that i don't understand it that's problematic um and finally um please do not write ends to ends nobody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "knows what that means uh okay thanks omer hello omar shapiro apple now apple uh i'm a little bit confused with the with the uh cash friendly and also working on a raw quick um or web transport because uh it uh it appears to me that uh large-scale caching implies the use of http so uh what i'm trying to say is that this charter seems like a super set of a few uh things that may not necessarily work all the time together and maybe it's worth clarifying the intention is this the case of working group that will oversee several solutions that do not will not work together or is the intent to actually try to uh make uh make it possible to cache real quick uh so this is my comment it's going for clarification it's not a technical comment of hey this needs to be done just for clarification of intent okay i think if if you asked is the intention to cash raw quick i don't think that's necessarily the the goal but maybe somebody who's closer to cashing or has thought about the text about relays and caches and cache friendliness can talk about maybe what that means a little bit more and how it relates to http colin telling jason let me just speak to uh both the previous two speakers uh questions there and see if i can answer them so i would start with the the security stuff um ecker point well taken that needs to be clarified in here but i think that the the proponents of this buff have a fairly clear understanding of what we mean and let me try and explain what that is and then we can try and work to get the charter to reflect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "that um certainly uh to put this in http terms yes all the connections are fully quick normal interpreted to that like just like http is encrypted to the cdn it's exactly the same but we don't want we want to have optionally the ability to inside of what's being tricked so that's hot by hop encryption between the client and the cdn the client and the server if there is no cdn and then from the server back down to the other receiving client is also that's all encrypted so what the end to end talking here is about is the data inside of that can also be optionally encrypted so some things wouldn't do it but the intention is to um use mls to kid and to be able to incu encrypt the blocks there and the metadata which is always a bad word there has to be some envelope data that is authenticated but not encrypted that tells you like time to live what the data is its destination who it's going to so i think that that's reasonably like me i'm not saying people agree on exactly details about the metadata or anything but the idea that we would optionally be able to take the media for some of the use cases and end and encrypt it i think it's really critical to some of the use cases um and the the way that that might be done might be completely different depending on whether you're talking about distributing you know drm encrypted video or anything else and it's out of scope of this working group other than to have a placeholder to be able to do that type of stuff and an architecture that enabled those types of use cases for for the people that wanted it so i hope that clarifies that one a little bit um on the caching um no the the intention is is not that you could use existing http zdns but that we uh there there are cdn providers they're aware of this work and have looked at the idea of uh building something that was compatible with a protocol that came out of this working group that was very media specific and very similar to what they already do with quick http cdns to be able to you know terminate the quick connection grab the data and cache it and do uh whatever was needed by the the work that was done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "out of this so it's well i think when we say cash friendly i mean that's completely vague term what does that even mean right it's hard but i think what people are imagining is a protocol that was designed from the beginning to enable people to build caches for deployments that want that type of thing there's certainly deployments that don't need that there's deployments that have completely their own caching network and everything and it's not defining how caches talk to each other it's just designing the protocol the work here such that uh caches can be used you can build a cache type environment if you want to i think that's what people what the proponents of this were largely thinking thank you spencer uh spencer dawkins i actually got up here to say something unrelated but i do want to agree with cullen there i think i think that's the i think that's the right attitude to have when we're talking about the charter and the charter is talk it says uh basically signaling for uh location of basically everything um is you know the working group would not not do define anything there i wonder if there are any constraints about how just any constraints on this protocol based on how people expect to be able to find sources and sinks and relays and stuff like that uh if people have something clearly in mind that that would you know that's that's cool but um i just you know if we're trying to talk about interoperability i'm a little concerned about that thank you spencer can you clarify what kinds of constraints you think might exist in people's minds i so base so basically basically as i read the charter if you if you wanted to have an interoperable solution using this uh there's no guidance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "from this charter about how we expect this protocol to be used at at a minimum and recognizing that you know anybody can do anything to locate anything in their special case but you know dude do do we want do we have at least one thing in mind that people could use to uh to locate the things that they need to locate and the reason i mention that probably is because i would expect the next conversation we have to be about privacy concerns for senders and receivers and you know it's like the best the best way for privacy concerns to be resolved is that senators and receivers can't find each other so you know that's probably not the goal okay thanks victor uh i was going to comment on the media format saying so as far as i remember the this was originally phrased as media containers instead of media formats and then there were sufficiently many people upset with phrase containers that were placed into format regarding mandatory to implement i personally find that in practice the requirements to support a certain format or algorithm are in reality fairly toothless because if the parties support different format and the protocol supports it they will use a different format even if they don't support the mti format uh i think the message here is that the working group this should decide uh define one format we expect people to use not necessarily that everyone will use it or not necessarily that we expect people to even use it within five years after it's standardized okay thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "ecker so i think victor's point first um i did not expect there to be i'm trying to find this text now but i didn't read that text um as being mandatory to use format i interpreted management implement format just like vp8 and 264 for rtc um and i do think those are useful i think this great interoperability and i think we have um uh yeah empty military implements exactly what that's expected to say so i think this is very useful and i think it's a good idea um as for the encryption thank you colin that was very helpful um um i guess um two points about so um i'd be happy to work with you make the interpreter say that um two points i would be happier if it said it will always be ending encrypted um but maybe we can argue with that outside the charter um um second um i'm still a little unclear about and i obviously understand why you'd want to have um uh some metadata clear for you know for for thing really the way to do things we talked about that in srtp as well um but um authenticating that is actually quite a tricky problem so i think we may have understand what that means a little better to underst to be able to talk about that um it's like an srtp right the um the metadata is in the clear and it's authenticated and end but it can't be verified by people in other cryptographic keys and maybe that's what you want maybe it's not what you want but to be clear what we're trying to say thanks okay uh before we go on in the queue i want to to make a proposal here based on what we've heard so far uh what the charter draft text currently says shall specify a mandatory to implement media format to insurance interoperability i think we've had several people come up and say that the breadth of use cases makes that difficult to imagine actually working and what i propose is that we adjust this to say may specify a mandatory to implement media format for specific use cases to ensure interoperability for those use cases and i think what that gives us is to say if we see a use case where mandatory to implement is going to advance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "interoperability the working group can then go go forward and select one that's appropriate to that use case but it is not trying to say any particular media format is going to cover the full gamut so eric has said in chat that he would prefer the opposite an mti which can be overridden in specific use cases uh i think those are functionally the same uh so if you want to write a pr that says it that way and uh put it against the uh the um uh the charter that would be great okay thanks ted uh bernard yeah i i'd like to uh echo eckers earlier uh concerns about the words end-to-end encryption i think media encryption might make more sense because i don't think you're trying to say that you're going to encrypt all the way from the ingester uh to the end point that you would preclude transcoding so i think what you're really trying to do is encrypt the media um and depending on the scenario the ends may differ so okay thanks no uh mozinati cisco um if uh on the mandatory formats uh if we are if we are actually going to rehash the the kodak wars as uh as part of this work let's let's get an itf scheduled and hon lulu uh in the next year or two because that seems to be the only way to resolve it i'll have to do get ted to do one of his chants again um to get everybody calm and mellow um but on the mandatory formats i think it's important for people to realize that trying to make an exception for some use cases or or having text which says this is mandatory only in this use case i don't think anything in the protocol will actually ever be able to distinguish the use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "i'm not imagining any protocol bits or semantics that would actually tell someone this is live streaming or this is interactive or this is vaude so i'm kind of at a loss of how a publisher or subscriber would even know that this is going to be mandatory in this context or not so while i think it's well intentioned to limit the mandatory formats to some use case i don't think it's practically feasible to to do that and i think having a fallback that everybody always implements is becoming possibly less and less relevant over time especially if you try to use a fallback like webrtc did that's most likely to be ancient by the time that this protocol you know sees widespread adoption so if we had vp8 and h.264 in there i'd be very sad as those mandatory uh to implement formats so i don't think we should copy uh prior charters on on that um softening the language should just say may choose a mandatory format i think uh you know may get us further down the road um but i would not add the text that has suggested about specific use cases because i don't think that's going to be feasible to implement and then one point on the security is i i agree with ecker that reading the charter now um with uh fresh eyes it's very confusing and doesn't really convey what people that were working on this for a while have already had in the back of their heads that cohen suggested so really everything that is done by quick we should explicitly say in the charter that media will be encrypted per quick but there will optionally also be an end-to-end encryption and the protocol is not doing that i think it's clear to specify that we are not specifying any of the protocol not just the not just the keying but the actual use of those keys to encrypt media mock is not involved in any of that but what is important is to identify the protocol needs to be able to identify what is and encrypted and what the context is for that you know how do you know where do you get the drm keys or end-to-end keys for that i think that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "important to specify that's really what the protocol is going to do is identify that some things are end and encrypted and what the context is for that encryption um and that there is a separate uh context for transport metadata that will the relays will have access to so i think those are the important things to get out in the charter thank you uh sanjay sanjay mishra here um i just wanted to respond back to uh what cullen was saying earlier on the use cases so i think i i don't think there's any um quants about use cases and and charter is the right place to have all those you to to be able to call out that uh moq mock will support these use cases i think the question is that each other use cases have to look differently for example that for live streaming really caching is not really something that you would do but you know maybe for vod that would make sense to do that um the the common denominator of course is that each of these for each of these applications will benefit with the low latency so low latency applies universally but there are other parameters you know for example caching will not apply to live streaming so i think that really the point is that these are all valid use cases that should be addressed and this is the right forum to do that it's just a question of you know how do you prioritize of those use cases that you would want to work on in a way that one is not stepping over the other in terms of conflicting with what you need to do with the live streaming versus video streaming case etc so that was the point thank you thanks luke hi luke from twitch again um so with mandatory formats um one of the things that comes up on the distribution side is caching if we have a thousand people watching a stream we we want them to all watch the same format uh we don't want to have this case where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "we have two people have this legacy format that the initial draft specified uh to not like invoke flame wars you could imagine if the draft said you must support gif um but in the future we're all using pngs you don't want one person using an old client to request a gif and forcing you in coding and spin up a new encoder and then force you to have a new cache so i don't at least for the broadcasting side you can make a case for mandatory formats you must support this codec but at least in the distribution side it's we want just one it's too expensive to support multiple ones uh in a lot of cases and we don't want to leave it up to the uh the viewer to decide if they want to make it expensive for us um so the mandatory for some use cases i think is just toothless like there's no point saying that uh if you can just opt out of it by saying i'm not that use case um so i would just leave it in the air like we have codex unfortunately people aren't going to come to a consensus anytime soon so we should not try to force that okay thanks steven so again on on the same topic um [Music] the use case is not necessary it does not necessarily only have a technical dimension so for example broadcast distribution in china where my employer sits uh is when it comes to codex election fundamentally diff different from broadcast distribution in the us as an example right and so trying to mandate a codec that folks over say in china are supposed to implement uh if they want to comply and with with our technology as specified here is is a last case that simple right don't do it just don't do it it's too difficult for this organization"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "okay thanks uh phillip sorry we got some stale q entries here yeah uh a bit more phil handbake a bit more charter bashing uh it's saying the working group will define uh is a will a may or a shell so i i when it comes to media will be encrypted so what i'd like to do there is media shall be encrypted metadata may be encrypted media may be end to end encrypted for certain use cases in the what i'm wanting is to make sure that i'm going to be able to encrypt my metadata between the endpoints that make sense for me and not have a second working group have to spin up like happened without webrtc so i want that that that's why i want to have that in the chat i mean yeah we don't need to call it ends two ends or whatever and i think that's you know there's some wordsmithing that can go into the rest of the thing because uh i don't think you need the however outside the scope of the working group as it's a bit chatty uh thank you i would encourage you to open pr uh see if you have specific suggestions and that kind of goes for a lot of folks i think maybe have some things but yeah feel free to jump in and and contribute specific language where we can have a discussion uh next up spencer spencer dawkins and i'm counting on cullen to tell me if i'm saying something [Laughter] um so we've had uh discussion a bit on the mailing list i think uh most recently with about metadata not being monolithic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "that some metadata is as we've talked about it is helpful for relays and things like that to figure out how to how to best forward uh packets and things like that and other metadata is not that uh so um i don't know you know i don't know that we've i don't know that we've conversion of in discussions to be able to explain uh that in proposed charter text but i think that's important for us to keep in mind when we're having a discussion is that some of the metadata is going to be different from other metadata and for us to be able to figure out a way to describe that difference um in a way you know in a meaningful way because i think that is something that's important to keep in mind so my second question is actually just making sure i understand so you all want to see proposals for change text as prs in the repo for the charter i i guess if someone had specific uh changes or particularly grammar or things like it reads wordy uh it's probably easier for that person to open a pr uh if it's maybe maybe starting with an issue uh and since not everyone's following the repo uh for also copying the list maybe not be a bad idea so um and i would observe that the the mock mailing list uh does get the weekly summaries from the repo uh so for people to keep an eye on that um i'm not telling you that we spoke about things that were i'm sorry go ahead ted uh i was just gonna say one of the reasons i was asking for it just now was uh i may be able to then show the pr to the to the group by sharing my screen a little bit later"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "um but i think we haven't quite got to that part in the discussion yet okay uh and and and thank you thank you yeah anything anything that will help me not submit some random piece of text that you guys have to merge in at you know at some level uh i would like to help you all be uh co-chairs um but uh so the other thing is uh if you if you all wanted to give guidance that uh if you're changing text uh you know saying you know say it this way that that's a that's a reasonable candidate for a pr but uh if you're saying we should be doing something different and i would say like the uh you know my early earlier suggestion about using the definition of live media uh from from a individual draft uh that that might be more more useful to have that discussion on the mailing list so that it can converge and uh the people do not have to try and figure out what to do with the competing prs i i just went sorry go ahead allen i just wanted to respond to one thing spencer said at the beginning which was about um metadata and that there was some attempt in the charter to to at least clarify the kinds of metadata that would be useful for transport relays and and whatnot and but i i think i heard you say you wanted more description or distinction distinguishing the kinds of metadata that wouldn't be available or that would be something for the working group to hash out this is spencer again so conveniently still in queue the um the thing i was trying to say was for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "charter recognizes that metadata is not monolithic and that the you know a working group responsibility will be to figure out what kind you know how to treat different kinds of metadata for different reasons i i would be i would be happy with that you know other people can do the right thing also thank you for clarifying uh uh ted you wanted to say something really good uh yeah so uh we ellen and i were kind of going uh in the side channel to talk a little bit about how we're gonna handle the mandatory day implement media format discussion and it occurred to us that it might be good to get a sense of the room obviously that we've had some good comments at the at the mic but what we're going to do is uh use the show of hand tool uh the question that will be in the show of hand tool is the charter should specify a mandatory to implement media format either on a use case specific basis or generally raising your hand would be a yes to this and uh choosing not to raise your hand in the tool would be a no the session is starting now yeah ted i don't know if you can extend the amount of time here but the sounds like some folks in the room uh lost the connection uh and mine's been very unstable as well so i don't think it will i don't think it will end until i end it manually at least at the moment okay can i get in like an actual show of hands for people who cannot get to the show of hands tool okay it looks like about five or six"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "folks for one you need to ask the opposite of that too though the people who can't get to the do not raise hands tool need to not raise their hands by raising their hands okay we don't seem to be getting a lot more so through the tool what i see is um do not raise hand 63 raise hand 20. uh that's clearly not uh consensus in in either direction but it is definitely trending toward uh uh concern toward specifying a mandatory to uh to implement media format so i think um what we probably need to do here is to think if there's something else that that reaches us for that interoperability that's the desired goal of that mandatory to implement format but perhaps doesn't use that particular method so i think we'll take that as something that would be continued work on crafting the charter uh let's go back to the queue sorry go ahead thank you ted i i was probably just confused but i may not be the only person in the room you were hard on your mic's really over loud and i actually took your question to be about mandatory implement codex not formats when you ran that poll but you know my mistake um anyway i may not have been the only one confused uh it does seem like on the the mandatory into codex people were sort of it seemed to me that many people were speaking towards don't bother with them or if you do bother with them they won't mean anything anyway um so i'm fine with that type of charter change i don't think things i wanted to come back to the metadata for a minute because i think that that's the other one and uh i my my strong belief is the only thing that should go in this not encrypted stuff is stuff that the protocol mandatory won't work with if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "encrypted it right there should be nothing that you could encrypt that you don't encrypt um for the indian encryption type stuff so we're talking about the you know it to put this in ip terms is to be like you can't encrypt the destination ip address like the network can't function if you do that right and this is the same thing what is the absolute stuff that the caches have to be able to see or the the middle servers need to be able the server needs to be able to see so that it can make the right decisions about uh what to forward next what media to flow uh congestion control those types of things there should be nothing else i i thought we had tried to make that clear in the charter i i i regret using the word meta yeah i wish we hadn't used metadata there but i think that we need to try and phrase it in that type of form that you know there will be some data that when you're using an encryption there'll be some data that's only authenticated and that authenticated data will only include stuff that's absolutely necessary for the functioning of the protocol um and i think that that would resolve a bunch of php's concerns and is better aligned to what many people in the working group thought it meant in the first place uh and it's not just some vague envelope where all kinds of like privacy creepy stuff can be said thanks thank you ecker yeah i i think that'd be a fine suggestion from cullen though i suspect we'll find this thing as extensible and then all kinds of creepy privacy stuff can be sent in it um um so richard barnes and i independently produced two pr's that attempt to like encode this discussion about um encryption i think either would be fine um so uh please take a look those are 59 and 60 um probably 60s which is his a little stronger um i'm still i think a little confused about the um uh the the the text um about uh i'm sorry can come on the um the thing about the authentication of um of clients for access i think maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "the next slide i'm not sure oh okay uh oh yeah yeah here we go so this last this last so i think this first um sentence i tried to read i i i'm trying to rewrite um about because i think it just means um a way to demonstrate to the relay you should get the media or the way to demonstrate the relay that you should be enabled in just media um so that seems easy um and i can fix that but i don't understand what the type of the comma means um and so maybe someone could come up with the stuff for the common means then we could write the text so it says that okay thanks suhas i had uh notes um on the transport method on the metadata which is very similar to what colors um i kind of just want to echo that um and and it can make it clear that it's more more of a metadata for things in the middle that do not want to access media or don't need to access media but want to work on it to make the decisions to forward or drop react to condition control we need to help that's the only way we can make this relays to be really casual and also performance and scalable as well and on the thing about relay discovery uh uh and and i i personally feel that dash kind of should be outside the scope of this working group maybe an architecture document could specify uh some of some of the like informal ways to do that but we the working group itself should not take to define mechanisms to with that thank you uh okay uh alyssa alyssa cooper um i was just uh reflecting a little bit about the relationship between the webrtc charter and what happened in webrtc uh with the codex situation to try to think about this in that frame and um you know we ended up with different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "requirements for different kinds of endpoints webrtc browser webrtc non-browser and webrtc compatible something or other endpoint and i was just wondering if thinking about that thinking about it from the client perspective um might cut through this a little bit because it sounded like when luke was talking it's it's really about this difference between a situation where you want the node serving the media to be able to dictate uh what the format should be and it's acceptable to have a loss of interoperability um whereas other situations where it's very important to be able to have that authority live with the clients um that you'll you'll cut out a lot of um opportunity for independent clients to be part of the ecosystem if there isn't um a baseline specified and so maybe that's a way to i find the concept of doing it on a use case by use case basis um a little bit unsatisfactory but i still do think that you need to have common baselines in some of these cases so maybe that's a way to cut through it but then i was also thinking that had we specified tried to specify these categories of clients in the webrtc case ahead of time that never would have happened because it took like many years to come to that sort of compromise so i feel like you need something in the charter that's generic enough to capture this but doesn't overly specify all the different subsets with different requirements thanks just a note we're going to cut the queue soon so if you have something you want to say uh please get yourself in the cube i don't know mosinetti i think elizabeth's a good point about um the different uh device types rather than use cases and what may not be clear in the charter is there's clearly two different device types there's subscribers and publishers that's one type of device and there's or entity let's not say device and then there's servers relays and caches which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "for the most part should not know or care what the media formats are if we do our job right it's just the transport protocol it's not actually going to operate on any of the media so it shouldn't require the indian keys it shouldn't require knowledge of the formats and all of that so i think it may be useful to if there's going to be something mandatory to implement in codec formats it should only impact the subscribers and publishers and not anything else in the chain um and on on the encryption um i think uh there was a suggestion that i put on the mailing list about explicitly defining naming the word transport metadata as what the protocol operates on and can see and access um and we may not we'll probably probably won't be able to describe it in detail in the charter i think it's going to be something for future work in the actual you know documents that come out but i think it may be useful to have something in the charter to nail the concept of transport metadata that is accessible to the relays i think right now it just says um uh a method of you know of accessing some data such as and gives examples i think just having a word for it transport metadata and then all all other data besides that be it content or metadata can be optional and encrypted but we still need to indicate where that where that's taking place the protocol needs to specify where that end-to-end uh encryption is taking place and not just have it publishers and subscribers know this is drm content and this is not drm content and then i think we also need to have some people that um liaise with uh the the mpeg forms about common encryption because there's been a lot of work done uh among publishers and device makers to not have to uh have multiple formats and input common encryption may be useful for that and that may be something that we can um we can leverage in this in this work too okay thanks victor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:03",
    "text": "uh victor vasilev goggle uh two things first to the point that uh if we do our job right transport should not be aware about format i i'm not entirely sure that there's a case because part of the girls of mark is to be able to intelligently choose one to drop uh of uh give us selected chunks of media so or that pretty much imply that might imply that we need to have a more advanced knowledge of what's actually in the medias and being a near transport uh my second point i wanted to make is regarding simple method of authentication that's never a good wording because whenever i think of something simple message authentication i think of something like stun oh it is oh yes encrypted with md5 oh uh we might want to just leave this out of the charter and leave it as an extension okay thanks eric on the on the topic of caching as well as whether um intermediates need to be able to view content i think one thing that's really worth keeping in mind is that there's a live and on demand are not the only things that a lot of um for many of the use cases kind of the semi live and dvr style cons use cases where people can go back and be watching live slightly delayed or rewind a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "play very heavily into this so a lot of these systems end up being one where where there's a very blurry line between live live semi live dvr in and on demand and how that fits into caching and how that fits into middle boxes it's something that we'll want to need to figure out early on if we want to be able to handle those use cases um or versus purely being a transport okay thanks i think ted's gonna go through some uh pr okay uh so thanks everybody there were a lot of good suggestions for uh updates to the charter during the course of today's discussion it's good to see so much energy uh in the queue whether it's a remote or um uh in in the room there were a couple filed here and i believe um two of them kind of overlap i'm going to show uh 60 rather than 59 based on some comments in the chat um but i'm just going to go through these very quickly uh if you have like very very serious heartburn please add yourself to the queue to let us know what that is um but just to let you know what the proposals discussed were so this was just um uh making this more general to to add or other mechanism uh this one as i believe we discussed was to remove push from a round protocol and i'm not even going to click through that since it's a deletion of a single word uh this one as we discussed was to add mops to the working group coordination list again that's a very quick one and this is the the more complex one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:04",
    "text": "uh that updates the um the encryption discussion i'll give folks a minute to read that okay uh is there anybody with serious heartburn who needs to join the queue to tell us why these uh prs should not be accepted i don't see anybody in the queue here or online uh so budget said that the left side of the room can't see it uh okay so and eric wants me to click the files changed tab so all the changes rolled together uh let's see here i think i have to move out of that so that would be the first change okay uh so i think what that is telling us is that at the end of this meeting we'll we'll be accepting those prs and we'll now go on to uh to ask some of the questions that are the buff questions so i'm going to stop the screen share now but as you'll see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "in the chat there is a link to the the polls and uh a related set of things sorry uh it looks like yeah jumped up and just got in the queue ted there was one more pr that came in from ecker that looks quite good to me while you were doing that so maybe we could just do that one as well okay let me look for that uh thanks to people want to take a quick look at this and again the same applies if you see a need to leap into the into the queue to tell us why this is wrong please do so okay i don't see anybody leaping into the queue there either once again these are of course all uh on the github repo and we can uh encourage people to file comments there if if you don't have a chance to do the comments here in the room okay we're now going to move on to the um uh the buff questions give give me a chance here to start the show of hands tool"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:21",
    "text": "okay apologies uh i seem to have closed the window where i had all of these locked up so it'll take me just a second talk amongst yourselves guys um so in case anyone missed it the poll is up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:06",
    "text": "um okay i've now discovered that you cannot actually unmute yourself once you've started a poll uh thank you to whoever it was that actually said the poll is up now um uh so spencer as is clear in one of the later um ones uh when we talk about the problem statement we mean after after the discussion in the room uh that's uh also clear when we will start talking about the charter so give us a second for the next buff question yep okay the poll appears to be out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:14",
    "text": "okay uh i haven't seen any additional entries in uh oh one just came in two just come in we'll give it another uh 30 seconds then we can all just also just come in the room if we like humming just come on you miss the hums you know you do okay i i i think it's probably okay to end the session now so i'm going to do so oh no still a couple slinking in um all right so that was 62 folks raised their hand that they were willing to review documents or comment on the mailing list of working group should be formed uh nine people deliberately did not uh raise their hand indicating they would not be willing and i'll point out that there are 152 people in the aggregate here so there's definitely quite a few people who are choosing not to answer uh and once again i have lost the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:17",
    "text": "okay this next one is starting now foreign okay we seem to have reached the end of folks actively participating in the poll so i'll end this session um the final question uh really isn't a show of hands style question uh it's for anyone who does not think a working group should be formed uh do you wish to address the uh the both addressing your concerns and i did notice that there was one person who apparently raised and then lowered and raised and then lowered and raised and then lowered their hand a number of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "times so if you feel wishy-washy about it and wish to address the buff with your concerns you're also welcome to join the queue now okay i don't think anybody i'm not seeing anyone leap up to the mic queue and no one is in the queue uh it is traditional at this moment then for us to turn it over to our area director to ask if there are any other questions the area director would like asked or any comments the area director would like to make i just walked all the way to the mic to say nope uh not yet no this i think i got what i need for now thanks uh okay uh we did say that if uh time allowed we would uh offer to host um a a technical presentation or two only one person uh sent in such a technical presentation uh which was suhas uh so the well named if time permits quick r is now the um the draft i believe it is pronounced quick r thank you thank you for that correction uh suhas would you like to talk about quick r yes i would like to talk about quicker okay uh thank you ted and alan for driving the uh the buff um i'll try to give a quick overview of what figure is um it's it's a media delivery protocol for quick uh i'll start by setting up some context on why we started thinking about currency"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "can you speak louder and maybe a little ironically for me slower okay if it comes from across i'll try to slaughter okay so uh i try to try to talk about quicker um the college is here i i wonder maybe if we should just move this to an offline meeting or some other time or something to us the problem is we're just having a really hard time understanding you in the room um so i i i i don't know how important this is right now unless colin you want to speak to the slides since you're here no i won't go for lunch okay uh sue is that okay since we're having a hard time hearing you or yeah i think would you like to try to scold her through uh i think that's a fine suggestion uh we can do an offline meeting and talk about more technical details okay okay uh if that's going to be the case i think probably one of the things that alan and i will uh chat with the area directors uh that if they do in fact form a a working group based on today's uh buff that we will probably want to schedule a pretty early interim meeting uh before 115 so we can start the technical discussions um in since this this meeting was very firmly uh focused on uh charter scope and charter language uh there really weren't um a whole lot of technical discussions which might uh might have taken place here hopefully those of you in philadelphia are having wonderful hallway conversations uh to do that but that we might want to schedule um some sort of interim meeting on online or in person uh to try and get those technical uh discussions kicked off again uh pending the decision of the isg and the uh and and any final charter changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "uh does that make sense to folks uh look like spencer isn't cute uh spencer dawkins uh ted if i could make what i hope is a friendly amendment um i can't think of a good reason for box to not be able to request an interim meeting to work on charter texts and things like that if that i'm not saying that that would be a good plan but if the chairs thought that that would be a good plan uh you might want to you might want to explore with the area directors whether that would be uh something that you could do as well um you know i just so you know november is a long time away and for us to be able to have a higher bit rate exchange uh between now and then if if if getting chartered is problematic that might be useful as well uh yep if it turns out that the the community needs to discuss charter changes that the iasg or the broader community requires we can definitely do that as well but i was also thinking that the technical discussions uh would be a great type of conversation for a get together online or in person uh sometime between now and 115 if if that made sense so if there if there's no comments on that we can let people go off to lunch okay thank you everybody for coming and uh we'll see you on the list uh thanks again thank you ted thank you area directors and uh also thank you note takers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "what happened how's it going sure [Laughter] let's make one anyway"
  }
]
