[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:08",
    "text": "Okay. think we'll get started. Alright. Welcome, everybody. This is the MPLS session I'm having some echo. Sorry. is the MPLS session in IETF 117. Yep. Yep. That's can you hear me now? Perfect. Okay. Welcome, everyone. Thank you for joining. This is the MPLS. session, an IETF 117, I myself, Tarek Sad, I'm chairing this with my co chairs, Lola Anderson and Nick Lehman."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Our MPLS secretary is Mac Jan. We also have David Cinecrop. He's been assigned a delegates to help out with this chatting this session. Thank you, David. Before progressing further, we are being asked that everyone who's attending physically to sign in with this blue sheet. So I'll circulate that And hopefully, everyone can sign in by scanning the QR code let me hand it to Okay. So We'll progress further. This is the IETF Notwell. by participating in IETF, you are accepting these recommendations and best current practices, so please be acquainted with them if you have not already. Some useful pointers for the MPLS working group Blue sheet signing in. I did mention physically, we ask people to scan the QR code it's being circulated right now. And once you log in using Meet Echo you'll be logged in as present in the online blue sheets other pointers, you know, to the MPLS Wiki as well as GitHub and some useful places you can find content, content, for work we do. Okay. Go ahead, David."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:07",
    "text": "If if you're logged in to Meet Echo already on this session on your top, don't scan the t the QR code because it logs you out of a session on your laptop. So you've already been registered. that not nope. Still, So you only need to do it once. Okay. It was okay. Thank you for clarifying. Yes. That's Okay. Thank you. This is the agenda for this session. We have four items on the agenda. There's another item not showing up It's showing up on the next slide. So please, if you have any comments on the agenda or would like to add or modify come to the mic and it's the right time to raise that concern. to So we are leaving quite a few tie amount of time towards the end of the session to discuss a specific topic And the chairs have asked Stewart to produce some slides And those slides were reviewed internally as well with David Cinekrop on big He gave some comments that were addressed. But the point that we are leaving room for discussion about this topic towards the end of the session. more of reporting work about the working group work since last time we've met, We have a number of Eratas that were that were reported. The first one is a typo,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the user the network interface is encoded as user to user interface, interface So the chairs will take that with the AD and get that accepted. The next Erata is also a a kind of a typo where intra AS is the meant to be mentioned in the text, but enter a yes's is what's in the RFC. And we also take that with the AD to accept this Erato And the 3rd Eirata is about the MPL Yeah. Base Yang model, and Indeed, there is a a technical concern about the leaf ref and not being a relative it's been absolute path and The correct one is referencing and then relative bath in the wind check. And we will also take that with AD to accept that. And the last era Rata reported is also yang model in the same model and similar comment, but in a differently different target Okay. Sorry about that. and it's a valid at least from the coauthors perspective as a co author of that RC, We think it's a valid technical RATA, and we will take it with the d. accepting. moving further, We don't have any liaisons arriving to MPLAS or from MPLAS working group. this time,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:05",
    "text": "In terms of progress on the documents, that we're driving at the APLS working group. this time, we don't have a new RFCs. But we do have a couple of RCs that are in the editor's queue And as well, they are being they are in AD's evaluation and Watch Watching Street, Specifically, the draft IETF and PLSRI, RSVP, FRR, So this the author signaled there's no outstanding comments And Nick, who is the shepherd, or shepherd for this draft is working on issuing a new publication request on this more updates on the working group documents, The first one is on the agenda today, so we will talk more about it. The second MPLS BFD directed It is a stable document from the office perspective. we are waiting on the shepherd write up before progressing further on this. The next one We are in the process of issuing a working group last call which requires an RTG directorate early review for it. The PTM PBFD is waiting on the RTG directorate early review And just to signal that these are taking a while to complete. So we he's patient with us. the NPM encapsulation it's something that the chairs may ask the office to present in an upcoming m and a interim meeting. because of the relevance of this draft. to the m and a work that we're doing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "And the next draft in MSD Yang. We are we are expecting a new revision for it, and and then request a yang doctor review for it. Next, we have the inter domain OEM. It's ready for working group class called process. which will include in in a review from the RTG Director. I will not go one by one for the rest of them, but mostly the reports and the state are tagged to each one of them If the authors of any document are present today, or they want to to clarify on any one of them, please feel free to come to the mic Matthew. Boxie Nakia, editor of the m and a requirements. Hi, document. So we had had quite a good discussion on the list. with with Sachorebelle. about his recent director review. It does make me think thinking a little bit more about some of his comments. Maybe the working group could think about and look at the relationship of that document to the framework and how things mesh between the two. And whether it's whether it's really clear, they were, like, given the fact they were in different documents. how because sometimes it's common to have a sort of framework and requirements document. Maybe it makes more sense to be one document or maybe are okay, sucker. I don't know. But just just some of the comments that that Sasha made kind of think a little bit more about that. I And it'd be good to get some feedback. Definitely. And thank you. And it's unfortunate. We don't have an update on the framework draft here, It's listed in one of those drafts that we we want an additional status update on it. and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "maybe it's the trigger. Yeah. I know the authors probably are here. Oh, on Okay. Sorry. I didn't see you. You're far and Tony, please go stable, ready for working group last call. Okay. While you're at it, I think Matthew is raising a point about the requirement intersections between requirement and framework graph. So let's work on Is that you know, resolving that concern. Yeah. There were some comments in the that written director review that seemed to sort of hints at some confusion about where particular bits resided and whether it was clear of the fact that we So we have them in different documents or whether we, you know, make Maybe. Maybe. But reading between the lines, we should look at bringing the documents together. Okay. It's not your I I missed those. I'm sorry. Please send me, and we will chat. Okay. Sure. Sure. Okay. The last one last bullet on this slide is a a draft that was progressing well, but now it's we're signaling that it's going to expire. So the we're expecting the authors to refresh it. and address some of the comments raised by the shepherd before we progress on it. And we do have new individual drafts encourage those to request a slot next time to present these ideas And with this, I I finish my working group status update and we can go to the next item on the agenda. k. So it's still me that it's going to give the report"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "So that's of overhead in context switching. So this is a report on the MPLS Network Actions open interim calls, Myself, I'm giving this report on behalf of the MNA chairs What are these calls? Basically, they are 1st a joint activity between 3 working groups and PLS filesand.net. that shares some of the 3 working groups are coordinating the agendas and decisions that we take, As well, we engage the working group of for those. we do have these interims pre scheduled, prescheduled, weekly, and it happens that they are on Thursday every Thursday, Last time since last time we met, we've had 8 rescheduled meetings and We met for seven times of the eight One time was canceled. because of no agenda. The the meeting the material the materials from these neurons are all available online. so they can be reviewed at anytime. And the recordings are also available on YouTube channel for the IT of There is a chairs meeting week clearly, it happens to be on Tuesday and One of the things that we discuss is canceling or upholding the upcoming interim meeting. So from these open calls that we've had since last time we met, the the 8 of them, I will mention some highlights and updates so that the rest of the working group is aware of what we've been doing. and the height"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "So the first one, we have triggered a poll on the use of 1st nibble for M And a not MPLS network actions, post stack data, So the the idea is when M And a postdoc data is present in a packet, in MPLAS bucket, What should four bits or the first nibble of the post doc data? What should it be? And three cases were discussed in the interims The first is setting a There's a type of there, setting the first level to be unique value, that is assigned specifically for M And A PSC, And then that's check that's set on sending and checked on receiving. The other alternative was to set it on 0 decided to 0 on sending and and checking it on the receipt And the last one Setting it to a defined value, but ignoring it on receipt. I'm not going to, you know, go in details of the options and what the pros and cons of each and the decision but I can point you to the the interims and the materials that were produced. So please feel free if you're interested in this discussion to either review the the material we have or engage the the year the office of the draft for the 1st nimble on this. So we did produce a text that it's not reliable to just rely on this first nimble value even if we had to allocate in unique value for it. to to to decide this as M And A PSD or not, And that that text went into the first nimble draft. that the working group is thriving."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "The second update, we I'm going to talk about was When adding a new m and a action, We needed some clarity on whether a new ISD substack should be added into the packet or should should we modify an existing MNIisd substack if it exists. So there were 2 options and discussed those in one of the interns, and And And we did produce recommendation to have the that classified into the solutions document that we have in the working group. There was also text about the MPLAS hardware to modify bits in the label stack that is not at the top, And We did bring that to the attention of the working group. We have a question. Go ahead. Joel Halpern from Ericsson. As far as I know, we have not fully resolved the question of what to do when things are pushed onto the label stack. whether those things contain a new IST or not. and cases such as when the new material pushes the old ISD out of the visible region So it doesn't do any good to modify the old IST if you if other stat other nodes won't even see it need to be addressed. I've tried to raise this on the list and gotten very little engagement, but we do need to make sure the protocol spec calls out what needs to be done to handle these cases. Thank you, Joel. Indeed. I second your concern. And I asked yeah. I mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "the solutions document has to dictate that as well as probably in the requirements, we we need to make sure we we tackle the cases where we need new ISD substack or we can modify the existing one. We do have another question? or common, Tony Lee, Jennifer. I question whether that should be in the solution document. or whether it should be in the action definition. Different actions may want different semantics. and I think the action should define where it should go. if I may, Joel Halpern again, the problem can come up even if there are no actions being added, if you're pushing label onto the stack and you push the old ISD, hop by hop information out of range, then you have to fix it. Also, if you're pushing on a new hop by hop ISD, You have to figure out how to fix it, and there may be multiple actions in there. there should be a default defined behavior. I have no problem if some actions want to specify that under some circumstances, they can do something different but we need a base behavior that is defined that will reliably produce the right results or else the individual actions will not specify the right things. Tony Lee, again. I have no problems with a default answer. but I don't see how you can possibly get the right thing without a little bit more in-depth analysis based on the given action. Okay. from the perspective of the engaging the discussion, I it's good that we're having this And ideally, we want to address that clearly, in one of the documents,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "either the solutions or the requirements throughout dictate what are the cases and the concerns for adding a new ISD into a packet And this is a this is a candidate topic for another interim. So the chairs will keep track of that and raised up. Are you taking list questions? Yes. It's Stuart. Go ahead. Sorry. I didn't notice you were on the -- I I I I don't think that this is a sufficiently centralized issue. that something like the framework or, you know, some a framework or architecture document. really needs to to discuss it. because it's going to apply across any application of ISD. Okay. Thank you. Please raise your hand, Tony, and So the remote guys know that you are speaking. Okay. Go ahead. Tony Lee again. With my framework editor hat on, So I don't understand quite what the framework document can say, except do the right thing. without having reference to the details of the solution document there's not a lot of specific wording that I can come up with Now if you can come up with something, Please send it to me. k. Thank you. Alright. I'll move on to the 3rd update that I have. and it's about post tag data, In the discussion, we started on whether postdoc data is needed in MNA or not,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "There were specific questions that at least the chairs are formulated, and we wanted to the working group to find answers to And that triggered a multiple presentations in the entrance We were looking for use cases for that were netaddressed in in stackeddatamanda. and the required p p PSD postdoc data. One of them was the MPLS IOEM In situ OEM, use case, Rakesh had presented that And then Jimmy presented a number of limitations of Just relying on the M And A ISD. to do all the to cover all the use cases So these two presentations are available on the Eriele's page in encourage is interested to review those Then we talked about no further fast tree route as a an action in the packet once we've rerouted the packet on from the primary path so that we can avoid further rerouting and causing problems and looping in certain situations. And in fact, we still worked have produced slides showing that Once we set this NFFRR action, we better make it sticky to all the way to the destination it's not enough to just turn it off after setting it at a transit node. or the merging point. I have Stuart raising his hand. So please go ahead. I I I put a note out on the list recently. I think there are some applications where we might plane want to set"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "and if if our where because in summer in some applications, having a jitter in the delay is worse than not having the packet. this is true for time transfer. So I think the scope of NFRR may well be larger than we originally anticipated. Okay. Thank you. We had a draft this describing nffrrr. Unfortunately, that expired. We're working the authors of the original draft to refresh it. and a a new refresh will we're expecting that to happen zone. our AD is at the mic. Go ahead, Andrew. Yeah. Tag, just if she can just Go back a slide quickly, to slide 3. Just for my own clarity because there's so much stuff on the lists about this. You've asked for use cases here. Am I correct in assumption here that As of yet, There is no consensus on whether or not PSD wool. actually be there. So this is a case of we've asked for presentations. We've had sun, but no consensus yet as to where we're going with this or Could you just give a bit more detail? Because right now, we've got we asked the presentations and then the next slide. and I need some clarity here. So we we in fact, we've left more than 30 minutes of discussion on the PSD topic towards the end of the session. But quickly, I will try to answer There are use cases that were presented there are counter arguments to those use cases that were highlighted that the same use case can be addressed with ISD. in a different fashion? So the use cases exist It's just that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "There is alternatives. And we are we are in the process of debating that use case should it be done For example, I can give you the OEM, I OEM use case, there are counters to keep doing this in in in PSD or not. So so what I'm hearing from you is There were use cases, But as of yet, there is no consensus because the use case is not consensus. That's correct. That is correct. Thank you. Okay. I'll move on to the Subsequent update We've had a a a another kind of use case I would say presented by Huya, for you. and it was when we're crossing dataplane domains, and we're still wanting to do in C2OEM. why you did review the multiple ways to doing that, the post postcard method and the passport method. And he was thinking of doing the IOM using postdoc data, The feedback we got in interims was again, signaling the same response is This could be done with solution, not necessarily with PSD. probably, this is the last yes. It is the last update from the In terms, we the chairs actually out to the debt networking group chairs and asked If someone can taken another look at at the intersection between that net and M And E. And Greg Merzewski,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "presented an overview of that net over MPLS and potential inter intersections with M And A work, the the the conclusion we we drew is there is a need to have close interaction with or keeping the debt networking group closer and our decisions that we make with M And A because it may affect how that net is is working today. Lastly, we the M and A chairs. wanted to do the same exercise with beer Working Group, to understand more the Intersection of beer beer payload with MNA, PSD, and or or the M and E work in general. So the same exercise would be done with BA Working Group. That was pretty much the update I wanted to give on the interim calls that we're having So thank you. That's it. I do have Andrew raising his hand, but I don't think No? Okay. Alright. Thank you. Okay. I'll move on to the next item on the agenda which is about in a registry for first nimble and Greg is the A presenter, floor is yours. Yes. Thank you. Okay. So we had a good discussions. And I'm presenting you the update. Next slide, please. So why do we need their MPL is first nimble. so so so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "it's historically because when MPLS started, IP payload was considered to be their predominant, payload, and to do world balancing. So analyze the first name of following their bottom of the stack. a label stack element, So based on value of 1st naval because it coincides with the location of IT key version number. So that could be used to do deep packet inspection assuming that matches IP version number, and then use their characteristic information of IP packet to do a world balancing. So IP version numbers are tracked in Ayanna IP version number registry. But for various other than IP version numbers that are used in MPLS first nimble, there is no registry. So their goal of this document is to create such registry. And another question that we want to clarify here reflect the discussion and consensus of the group is that whether their Value, in the first nimble can be unambiguously, reliably used to understand their type of a payload that follows MLOS encapsulation. So they're basically the payload of MPOS packet. Next slide, please. Okay. So we gather it all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "information we could find. And here's the current proposed assigned values for the registry. So as you can see, Some values, they have multiple interpretations. although should the wire control word and that means control word are similar because they are occupied 32 bits For example, the pseudo wire ACH format and definite ACH format are different. So the wire ACH is thirty two bits. and proposed format for deadnet ACH. is 64. and then you continue that accidentally, and a Sage based header for bits that follow immediately MPLS stack can have value 0 but it will be first nimble of NCH next Service header. network service header. Sure. So as you can see, there is already obvious ambiguity in interpretation of their type of the payload if days if days solely on the value of the first nibble. Any questions? Okay. Next slide, please. So As mentioned that one of the primary use of first label was that to identify the type of the payload, and then if the payload more likely to be IT use it for world balancing. So the conclusion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "is recommended is not to do deep packet inspection, but use entropy label or fed to the wire label for world balancing instead. because that that is more generic mechanism. but, you know, we cannot stop people from doing what they like. But the rules that we try to express and explain for reader of this document is that if the value of the first label is 46, then there is a widely, IPV 4, ipv6, respectively, payload. So then it's possible to do it to use this notion and do load balancing based on IP information. But if it's not, then it's probably better to use some other technique, for example, use the label stack information excluding special purpose labels. to to generate some hash value and do load balancing. or, obviously, again, reiterate that use entropy label and to the wire flat label. value. Next slide, please. So in the question of whether value of first nimble can reliably identify the type of the payload. The conclusion is that It's not. So the correct interpretation of 1st naval in a post stack header, can be done reliably only in the context of label stack elements or group of label stack elements at the bottom of the stack. So that's something Good to remember. Next,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "So in the course of discussions with defied, and, actually, our discussion of into working into relationship between that it over MPLS data plane. And M And A PSD identified that we might look at Post stack, as possible possibly having multiple posttag headers. because in essence, their control word and ACH can be viewed as a post stack header. of its own. So thus, we might have a situation when they're bottom of the stack label stack element is followed by multiple blocks that each has its own post tag header. While each of this post tech header might happen to be in different situations, in different scenarios, the first header. So, basically, then this first nimble will become or can be ref referred to as MPLUS 1st Naval. So that probably will have to questions. So first, do we want to have a more general Term. for the multi PSH case. to refer to the first name of the posting header. Because Historically, it seems that when we call something MPLS1stenable is that first enable of MPLS payload that immediately follows their bottom of the stack. And of course, we welcome comments and questions. As mentioned, the we will continue working, but we expect to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "request for the working group last call consideration pretty soon. Okay. Thank you, Greg. I have a question And as a working group contributor first and then as a working group chair. is first syllable still the right term? I think you touched on it in the last statement that you're saying. So first, nible means 1st level ops. The IP load or 1st nibble off, I I the data. Okay. In the Okay. a group, of of subset of coffers talked about it And I think that what we want to have is to use more of post tag header terminology. So basically, then, file that we are talking about r, Short symbol of post head stack header. And there might be different scenarios where specific postheader, becomes the 1st post header of MPOS payload. then then If it's convenient, that can be referred to as MPL as 1st Nimble. Mm-mm. I that case, Greg, maybe we need to rethink that title of the document? Probably probably. Again, that's possible, but again, it came rather late Right. this realization that we might have multiple posttag headers and then they might take different positions relative to the bottom of the stack, So, yes, again, once we Have a good term then probably it will be good to reflect it in the title of the document. and then probably then think whether it will affect Ayanna registry name that we were requesting to great rate, great,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Okay. Thank you. And the second question I had is the Are are we expecting a section Ayana section to to ask for M and A first enable in this document before working group last call or That's something that you don't want to touch on. Well, again, actually, if we look back go back to this table table So you can see that's one thing that is different in the slides from the current version. I prepared the version, but So we discussed, and we changed their interpretation how IP version numbers reflected in this registry. because IP version numbers to be tracked in IP number versions, version numbers registry. So for here, for this registry, we proposed to mark them as reserved and then point to the appropriate RFCs. So the 70 791 that allocated 4 and 2780 which created their IP version numbers registry and then 8200 for ipv6. Okay? But, actually, do not call them out as ipv4ipv6 respectively. But rather say it's reserved for this registry. Mhmm. Okay? So, again, when this registry to be created, physically. like, early or after we as as part of the process of publishing this document, I think that we'll open these suggestions. Okay. Thank you. Any other question to Greg? k. Greg. Thank you. Thank you, Thanks. Thanks. Moving on, we have LSP weeping traceroute for enabled in c2oem, capabilities. and Xiaomi. And let me just quickly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:08",
    "text": "Hello, everyone. It's Xiaomi speaking. Yes. Transportation is about as we ping threshold for enabled in c 2 OEM capabilities. This is the second time I present this draft. Next slide, please. This is the recap of this draft This drafted defines as we ping extension to achieve IIM capabilities discovery. in MPS Networks. This draft is a companion document of, obviously, 9359. This job defines NPLs Note IOM information query mechanism. For this parameter mechanism, see IOM capabilities, sub TVs, are defined in this draft. Next slide is this presentation is intended to answer significant question raised by Tarek Can we set, Alright. when this chapter was presented at the IT of 115 The question is why not IGP? Basically, ITP is an alternative, for IIM Calabilitaries discovery. However, it's not employed by obviously, 93 59. that I've see mentions IGP solution to It provides some reasons while IGB solution is not preferred, Next slide is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "in section 1 of, obviously, that is 3 59 it provides two reasons, why IGP is not preferred. for the reason is that IDP and ion domains don't always have the same coverage. Second, the reason is that to it might be too challenging to reflect in net order. I am. ads, I am transition. I am the capsulating node. if this are controlled by a local policy. depending on the identity of the I am encapsulating note. Except for the two reasons. the IGP solution is requiring a multi instance IGP support. of the IIM devices. which is regarded as the high requirement. Next slide piece. this page shows that shows an example scenario the IGP and the IIM domains, don't always have the same coverage. You can see as demonstrated in dropped the IT of NPL screen. into the main OEM, LSP can cross over multiple AS Next slide is last one, panelist, let let's take MPS TP into account in, obviously, 56, 54, there are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "both data plane requirements and control plane requirements. to data plan It says it must be possible to operating and configure the MPS CP data playing result i. any IP forwarding capability. in the MPS CP data plane. to to control playing it must be possible to operate in MPSTP Network without using a control plane. So When the ilam is deployed in a MPstpnetwork, IGP is possible to be avail available. next societies. next steps, we ask for more reviews and comments, and we'll revise this chapter to improve it. And when we ask for can go with the option. That's all. Thank you. k. Thank you. Any questions to to show win. Now no questions. Thank you. Okay. Let's keep you know, this topic on the mailing list. Okay. We'll progress it. Okay. Thanks. Thanks. And next, we have We have the last topic that we wanted to talk about today is The case 4 PSD, post stack data for MPLS network actions, And for this, I'll ask Stewart to remotely present, and I I'll actually present the slides, but who will be presenting remotely. Thank you, Cherokee. I I hope my audio path folds up. I've been having some some issues here. Right. So to PSD or not to PSD, that's the question. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "So The case for ISD is made. There's no question that the design will incorporate right IST. However, ISD may consume stack space in quantities that stress some implementation Horances carried in ISD, I'm going to argue on are of necessity limited inside relative to the sort of sizes you could carry and post that constructs. ISD may interact with ECMP, ISD that packet may change the ECMP selective path. Well, that is an ISD that changes along the path though that could be super confusing and very difficult to manage and potentially would give some quite unpredictable results. Next slide, please. Okay. Before I move on, I just wanna ask Joel. He has a question. general -- -- related to the content of this Is it related to this slide or in a slide, although I will likely be up backup for almost every one of the slides in this entire deck. So so we have 2 options. Either You you I don't want you to stay all the way all the way on the mic till the end. but you can do that if you want. But so, Stuart, do you want to take individual questions for on slides now. I want to do whatever the chairs think will progress the a session in the most expeditious way. Okay. I inter personally, I want an interactive session. So It's good to have that's my personal opinion. I have other chairs as well. So they feel -- And they want to sound their opinions So okay. Please go ahead, Joel then. I have looked multiple times at the whole deck to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "try to make sure I'm understanding the points being made. it is still possible that I'm misunderstanding Stewart. And if I misunderstand or misrepresent your works, Stuart. I apologize. But What I see here assumes facts that are not in evidence. For example, IST already has provisions for carrying arbitrary amounts of data, whether it is a good idea to put large amounts of data in a stack. is a different question. It's probably not a good idea. But it's not a question of IST versus not IST. or ISD versus PST. Similarly, you talk about StackSpace, unless one has a maximum stap gas problem, Then the stack the size is going to be pretty much the same And if one has a maximum stacked depth problem, Then one has to be very careful about expecting all implementations to go find stuff after the maximum stacked up. So the claim about stacked space raises interest in questions about what we're solving. You next talk about ECMP and the interaction with ISTs that change from PAC to pack it. That appears to be a hypothetical. There is no defined action In any Internet draft, which does this. it is really inappropriate to argue against something or argue that something has a problem, based on a case that we have not agreed to do. So I have a real problem with the approach here. Well, hang on a second. Don't need necessary to shout at me, please. So what we know is that if you put a variable parameter in the ISD, it will interact with ECM in some implementations. Now,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "I'm fine with the framework and higher level documents specifying that one would never put a variable in there and that nothing change between one packet and the next, that is fine. If we write that up as a as a restriction, then we can we can live with it. But at least we know where we are. But I don't think that restriction has been formalized And I don't think that is necessarily what the the group k. Thank you. And, Drew, during the queue, go ahead. Yeah. Andrew Austin. Routing ID So I've had a fair amount of interaction with various people around the stake MNI you know, the PSD, the whole lot of it. And I just wanted to say this that in any summarization or where claims are made, etcetera. to Avoid controversy. it is probably best that where we are saying case for something is made. that the deck makes references to to the males on the list where we decide things. that clearly indicate where that case was made, because we within the IETF, make our decisions and our judgments on consensus on the list. And so the moment that you make a claim of fact And I'm not saying that anything in here is right or wrong because you know, there is a lot to go through and a lot to unpack So I'm not saying that anybody's wrong. I'm simply saying that it would be helpful in future."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "to cross reference any claims of fact against the mailing lists. Thanks. So I I think the the I I I I put the the case for ISD on the basis that I believe that that is the direct of the primary direction that the working group has decided to go. And I was trying to distinguish, but between, you know, the positives of ISD and the negatives. And the second part of this looks at some of the things that we have discussed in the various interims and other interactions. that we've had on this topic. Okay. Thank you. We have Tony's still go ahead. Hi. Tony Lee, Jennifer again. So I'd take issue with what was said earlier about putting variables or or mutable ISD data. as we discussed on the the mailing list, you have 11 bits of mutable space per LSE entry in the IST area. And, of course, you can add more LSC entries if you need them. So that is doable. not pretty. but it's definitely doable. Second point is the last bullet on this slide I take issue with this is a matter of perspective, and doesn't seem to be based on facts. So are you asserting that if a node along the path changes anything in well, actually, anything in the in the in the lower 20 bits. there is not going to be this effect."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "what I know of is that as long as no one changes, the lower 20 bits of every LSC then ECMP will work correctly. Correct. And we'll get to the but but that that fights again to putting the size restriction of of the the amount of data you could put in an ISD. because 11 bits per per 32 bits is not really a great right packing density. As stipulated, it ain't pretty. Right. And I I the next slide talks about the sum of Oh, okay. still -- Just to clarify your last comment, Stewart. that puts a limit on the effective and easy to use amount of mutable data. your comment your slide says, ISD parameters carried my ISTs are limited in size. That simply isn't true. Well -- The mutable parameters may be limited, but that's a different statement. No. I I disagree with you, Joel, because different parts of the of the forwarder, have different difficulties with different parts of the stack. Right? and and you know, for if for example, if you wanted the parameters to be only used the degrass There would be a lot to be said for putting them in post stack rather than in stack. I I disagree with both of you. I will point out that the size of the IST header is finite. And so the parameters are necessarily limited the the slide is correct there, but it sort of irrelevant to this argument We still have Greg in the queue. You want to come up to the mic?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:07",
    "text": "Greg Mursky Ericsson. So what I confused is that a lot of arguments here are based on some arbitrary into evaluation of the current state of the hardware in the network. So I don't see any evidence that what is their bottom line But, basically, what's the benchmark we are comparing it to? From other perspective and from our our experience, are introducing some functionality in existing network So we learned that, yes, there are different capabilities and technology roles. So we developed the method of advertising certain capabilities and as MSD. So then the system can intelligently decide which functionality are can be applied in which paths and apply them. So, yes, some notes might not ever benefit from using manda because of their limited capabilities. but I don't see that it should stop some progress. At the same time, as I said, the technology and their capabilities of the systems in the network will grow so that's what being mentioned here as concern or limiting factors like stack size would be Either less a concern or no concern whatsoever. Thank you. So there is another difference in characteristic, and that's that PSD you would put in place once. And this is particularly the case if you wanted a large block for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "at the egress. PST put in place 1. I have no idea quite what would happen with FCD. We'll put 2 several lots of it in there. with that were different or whether you'd have to keep replicating the ISD. Yeah. Again, what I wanted to mention, and I think it's already been said. that if their length size of the stack is a concern for fast forwarding, so that would be case for PSD. Because then if we are concerned that some node cannot reach in the cache lookup of ISD information. then clearly putting in PSD is no better. Tony. So to your comment about multiple blobs of ISD, The framework graph does have language about this. There are ISD blobs of different scopes. There is expected to be one blob of each scope that a particular node might want to process. Obviously, for ide, scope, that would only be processed at egress, select scope would only be processed if it comes to the top of the stack, and hop by hop should be processed by transit notes. There should be no ambiguity about what ISD is getting processed. Rakesh? Rakesh. That case can be from Cisco Systems. So I'm aware of a use case. called part tracing where a a node writes 3 bytes of data, for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "tracing the packet path in the network and per hop delay. as well as load measurement, So for 14 hops, If you do it in post tag, we get 14 times 3, 42 bytes. That's how much data would be in the MPLS packet, And if you put this into the mutable part of the LSC, 11 bitch, it would come to 31 LSCs. And if I got my math right, it's 124 bytes. So we go from We have 42 bytes, 224 bytes, on the MP elastic. Thanks. k. Thank you. see me? Yeah. First off, I'm from Huawei. Yeah. 1st of all, I think some analysis about the ISTs characteristic including the pros and cons will be important for us to understand which kind of applications will be suitable for ISD. and which kind of use case it'll be can be met by the PSD, and maybe some of the use case can be can not be met by either SD or PST. Right? So this is something you need to be document to need to be documented in some of the documents in the Wohim Group. And regarding the limitations in the size of the IST, I think One motivation we discussed previously is about the how we can use legacy hardwares to enables at least some of the SD functionalities. So this is something we need to consider. whether we can and support some of the SDIN functionalities with limited label stack size. So there's something think analysis is necessary. Okay. Thank you. and Correct. Yes. Thank you. I'm confused"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "are we discussing different ways of building network processors or what model, basically, because when somebody tells me that, oh, that is difficult to do in iced tea. I just wonder. So what principle of processing and lookups And you're considering. Or if some comes and say, oh, piece, these much more powerful than ISD. And, again, is it specific to particular hardware solution, or it's more generic claim statement. So Those who are performing those who are really referring to hardware advantages or shortcomings, So what it's based on? I'm a little bit lost here. So what I was trying to bring to everyone's attention pan. Good. Good. Good. get us to discuss. is that ISD is not perfect. It has limitations, We should document those limitations. and we should understand whether we can live with them. or whether we will also need PSD. Again, If we know that ISD has a limitation, at least in terms of size of the stack impacting the forwarding performance, then how PSD helps But, personally, it certainly helps for the end to end stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:04",
    "text": "Yes. But if PSD is end, okay, if there goal of M And A for the particular scenario is end to end, than putting ISD MNA at the bottom of the stack solves the problem in my opinion. No. Well, it all depends. I mean, you still got those think when you got the 11th entry, you're gonna We just had a, you know, a note about that. Okay then. you know and again, that's that's the same thing. It's like Okay. Let's then go from general statements to specific use cases and analyze whether ISD has some shortcomings in what these shortcomings are, and whether we have some use case, that cannot be solved with ISD understanding its shortcomings. because otherwise, it appears to be that there are some very generic statements about ISD Problems but without really comparing to PSD, because for hop by hop, TSD will have the same problem of reaching disinformation. as ISD, if not worse. Actually, ISD can cope with it by placing multiple nases of ISD in the stack. Well -- And we -- -- these d has no solution for it. Greg, can we, you know, summarize the question and and leave room for the we have a long queue building up. Okay. So at least again, I I think that this is not thorough analysis and comparison of ISD for specific use case. Thank you. It's too general. Okay. Alright. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "Moving next, I I'm at the top Tarksad and Cisco, and I have I have a comment. Basically, Rakesh made a case on just a little while ago where he showed the overhead for a specific use case, is optimized 50%, if I roughly, if you do it in PSD versus ISD. So he's actually showing a improvement If we realize that Path tracing use case, in PSD versus ISD. So the first thing I want to say to Rakesh, we have a use case draft we'd like to add that use case that your describing in there. So please work with working group. to produce text to add it. And, you know, I wanna highlight that there is optimizations if you do that with PSD versus ISD. And it's a discussion that we can have. Thank you. That's it. That's my comment, and I will move to win. Yeah. Of course. No. I just wanted to make a comment because there is some of this debate, and I'm mainly referring to the first part of this parties there is a stack space where the hardware has a limit in the amount of data it can it can it can it can push or process into the stack. And what I wanted to comment is That's not whether use IZ or PSD, that doesn't matter. rights? So So so that's one point that I wanted to make. Now with respect to the efficiency, Right? So to the point of the use case, I think Alright. Personally, I would like to have one capability that is flexible enough"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "to do multiple use cases, potentially. So to the point of path tracing, right, as it stands today with the LSE so with ISE with LSEs, It's not the most optimal way to encode it. Right? But one of the things that that use case is also hub by help. Right? So It's a little bit challenging for PSD, which is typically an end to end capability. So Can we not Hi. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Right? So there is 2 things. One is there is a limited amount of data that we can process. Right? And it's irrelevant whether it's ISB or PST. right, right, right, right, If the ISD as it stands today is not flexible enough, for our use case, Let's look at how we can potentially improve it. So for me, it's like, not necessarily PSE versus ISD. It's like let's make this thing flexible enough to support multiple use case, but Because, also, if you do ISZ and PSD, the hardware pro thing to do it in multiple places will become more complicated And I think we all benefit from, I I would say, one mechanism rather than multiple mechanism that all do funky, wonky stuff together. And I think it's more optimal to I add in a hardware to do one thing and one thing very well. but make it flexible enough to support these different scenarios. Okay. We have Tony, thank you, women. Stewart, if you want to respond before Tony starts feel free. Feel free. I I I would love to do it in a single it. It is across the right thing to do. if we can do it. at quite I think all this is frustrating is that the working group's got a bunch more space a bunch of work to do in this space. k. Tony, go ahead. So my recollection is we've talked about IOAM decks in this group several times. And we've given a mechanism for doing path tracing that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "doesn't require scribbling in the packet. this seems like a clear way of achieving the same functionality with a better mechanism So why would we bend over backwards to do something that we don't really wanna us. Second point, we seem to be really, really hung up on matters of taste. And that doesn't really seem appropriate to be discussed in the working group. I would really like it if we stuck to facts, and practical uses. And if you want to have debates about taste and beauty, I'd be happy to buy you a beer. Not in England. How are you? Yeah. I'd like to comment about the hardware capability. I think the the passing or or the depths that can be seen, but hardware is, you know, is different hardware by hardware. But once it's capable of reaching certain depths, then every data can be can be read and processed. So that's a truly actually about some complexity, to parse the the part of data. So in this sense, comparing the ISC and the PSD because ISD, there are multiple things need to be cared about. So based on my experience. I did some work on the actually writing the password in the p 4. It's it's extremely difficult. 3 to to do that in SD because of the limitation. So so at least, I think functionality processing. It it doesn't matter. It's it's just the date. decided by the use case itself. It really doesn't matter. It's in ASD or PST. But in terms of parsing the headers, the ISDs,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "much more complex than PST. So that that's another thing added to is other limitations, like the the size and the you know, the complex encoding style. So so so I think So, really, you know, for for for this adds some capacity to the SD. So as for the IOM case that just mentioned that you can have a different implementations using SD to support the direct export. But that's as I said before, that's not really a standard Iomdx implementation. Because According to the the standard RFC. This has a real defined header format for DX. So that cannot be encapsulated in in stack. So to support the use case I presented for the cross domain support supporting of AUM. So you have to keep the AUMDx header intact crossing the main different domain. So in that sense, we have to comply with the the standard. i of course, you can do this in other different way, but there's another less can pass can be another solution, and that cannot be claimed to be the identical to the iomdx as this is specified. Thank you. k. Rakesh. Rakesh. Rakesh Gandhi from Cisco Systems. So this is to answer the person that Barrick had. There is already a draft for the tracing for MPLS. I gave the name of the draft in the chat. So this is using the post check. Thanks. Okay. Thanks, Rakesh. Let's work together to have it referenced in the use case draft of M And A."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:06",
    "text": "Hi, Andrew Austin. This time, I'm taking off my AD hat and I'm putting on my operator hat. I've been listening to this, and I've been watching the debates for a while. And I wanna make an appeal to every venda, out there. no matter how you are looking at this. Whatever you do here, operators have to take this understand it, be able to operate it be able to debug it And through these debates, The one thing that I have seen consistently is a mass of complexity. that is likely to lead to some complex bugs Operational headaches, unstable networks, what I see in the And IST. versus PSD, debates, etcetera. does not seem as an operator. to be geared towards The solution that leads to least complexity But what I do seem to be seeing is a lot of different positions where people seem to be fairly rooted in their views rather than stepping back and going how do we make this thing work in the best way for the for the people who have to run the networks Latai, And in all the debates and the arguments that I'm seeing here. That's something that seems to be being neglected. And so I would appeal to everybody as they look at all of the stuff. Throughout this deck, throughout this debate, to please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "Just keep in mind, that when we're done, An operator has to be able to take this and use it and debug it. and run their networks. because that seems to be getting forgotten in this whole debate. Thank you. I was gonna say, I'm sure we are more than happy to take Andrews advice as an engineer well, has an AD, but as an engineer, into this design. Hi, Tony Lee again. I'd like to address that, Andrew. We are trying to keep it simple. Believe it or not, we are. But MNA ain't easy. We are cramming arbitrary things into the label stack. Now you wanna really make it simple. We just say, Go away. Don't do this. okay, throw out m and a as a work item and and, you know, That makes life a lot easier. if you want m and a, this is what it kinda leads to. And if you have constructive suggestions on how to simplify this, Please, Don't be shy. So so Should I go into the next slide and see -- Please go ahead. industrially satisfied. wanna get through to the end of don't gonna end up in a in an intro meeting next slide. Okay. Right. So We've sort of cow covered some of this. but without the the the benefit of the picture. and I put this in to help people who hadn't been in the M and A discussions. So this is the note that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "To avoid ECMP, there is a suggestion that moot mutable data be carried in the right hand or piled a bits of an NSE So you can put pick stuff, in the label field, but the variable stuff has to get can be crammed into 3 bits I'll do the gap and then eight bits. is pretty messy, but, you know, I mean, I think anyone would regard this as messy if you This if you want to carry it in code more than 8 bits of any form of of data. But I think another reason for this is that we we we were worried that ECMP would interact with the information. The label stack, because some load balancers just look at the label stack blindly. I am concerned that we may need to be very careful that in a flow, they the m and a information, i e, the action set, would have to be constant across the whole flow, or you would get any CMP effect. Does anyone disagree with that Now it's possible that no actions have been defined at the moment that need it, think we should document it if this is the if we see if we agree that this is the case, the that a a a high level document needs to say this. A comment next slide. Oh, Tony. I haven't found it. Yeah. The framework document does try to say that? I guess I'll look at the text again. If you don't like the text, Send me edits. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. But I think it's something that we really have to take onboard as a group. because I I didn't realize the the subflow restrictions would apply until I thought about this recently. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "The the other standard tech technique for sterilizing ECMP. is to put an entropy label in there. And we have discussed this in the in the group. It is not The most palatable solution it requires an extra 2 MSEs in the packet. And I think probably, how they have to be at the top of the packet? Because It all depends on how routers implement their load balance. Some will hash until they get to the e l. Some will only get to the e l. In fact, woah. eel system is not standardized. So we may be able to do some sterilization using EL but it's not it's not guaranteed to work. Next slide. So This is some of the anti PSD stuff. Right? So PSD cases are not yet well specified, although a number have been put forward. PSD solutions are not well developed, and the need is not universally accepted by the working group. I think we've kinda had this discussion today. PSD will be difficult for some forwarders to act we've had this discussion, particularly with the label stack is too much, and that's particularly the case. when there's a SR in play and or significant IST PSD interacts with other post stack information needed by the application parameters such as control words. And methods of carrying PhD are non ISB So so carrying PST and non IP payloads have not really been defined, and they aren't print. between some of the the payloads. So for example, beer seems to have different requirements from dead net and Suleywaj. But I'm gonna argue that PSD may have the capacity to carry ancillary data,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "greater capacity and synergy data and it certainly has no ECMP issues if you avoid the first nibble or if you use the first nibble, don't need his today. Again, next slide. How are you? Yeah. So I look at give some comment about PSD. all those RPSC's tension header dropped. So it's not adopted by the working group due to some IPR issues. but it does have a provide a lot of solution to the problem listed here. for example, it can be applied to, you know, at different we can segments label stack into multiple sections and that puts you know, the the extension header field. in the after four sections of some antitrust labels. By doing that, it's improve the reachability and also it it it can solve the problem officer. big very deep label stack. And another I week week week week week I'm I'm gave a presentation next time as a politician. a proposal to actually Alright. use the for the segment routing MPOS as a use case for the for the post post that data. In that sense, we can actually put the entire label stack for the second routing into the extension header. And so so it it is option is similar to the SRV6, and then we can also support the symbre concept of network programming. So so that that's that's another thing. And Also,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "So other appliances have been discussed that before we have already have a several quite solid use cases and with with draft. and those has become RC standard I think because this used to get even more mature than those proposed in the for the ASD because Most of them are still just in the draft. stage Thank you. thank you, next So here's a soft have been discussed at various times during the gestation of of MNI, There's a whole load of time of flight measurements that people are thinking of doing, particularly around enhanced quad solutions. and precision time transfer. Now we've got ROC 81 96, Greg. I know that. But it seems to me that if you have a world fully geared to M And a, You and and our segment routing for that matter, probably don't want to use the nailed up parts that 8196 use, and this is a separate mechanism to implement. I don't think it's particularly treat So there's a whole bunch of time of flight applications. I'm sure more will come out of the woodwork. OEM, we've kinda discussed so far. n, n, what so I I suspect we'll end up security mechanism needed, but so that's quite controversial. And fragmentation was here right at the beginning of Jeffrey. Gelles. I'm putting aside the lack of clarity on the time of flight, and we've discussed IOAM. As far as I can tell, any analysis of security While there may be an issue for security for MPLS, there certainly hasn't been in the last 20 years. Okay. 18 years. 25 years."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "But maybe there is. I mean, people have raised issues with me. But it's not a PST related issue. PSD as far as I can tell has nothing to do with security. And fragmentation better dang well be end to end, in which case, IS end to end ISD can handle fragmentation as well or better than any post act data unless we are in the myth of getting into having intermediate routers fragment packets which There's good reasons why we tend to disavow that in almost all routing work because it produces really painful results. So I have real trouble understanding how some of this relates to PSD. There may or may not be cases for them as MNA use cases, that I would like to see a draft to understand. But in terms of relationship to the discussion of PST, I don't see them. More generally, Let's be clear. What I would like to see happen is us to get the ISD work out the door. We can then figure out Do we have use cases for PST? If we have use cases for PST, what is the right way to handle representing and indicating PSD. and we can then move that work forward. We do not need to hold up the IST work for it. We do not need to resolve this work now. Have you read you've read all the slides, Joel, and you'll notice that that that's more or less what I'm proposing. except that you're you you assert in the in one of the next few lights that we need to have this solution now. And if we don't need to have it now, we don't need to be spending 40 minutes working group time, debating whether or not we need it for the use cases that are not yet specified."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "I I think well, we'll get to those slide. Well, maybe we'll get Anyway, Stewart and and everyone, we are coming close to the end of the session. And we yeah. We actually overtime now. thank you for drawing my attention. I do have to stop the queue. So if you have a quick question, Jeffrey, go ahead. That's another quick question. Just a clarification regarding the PST use case. we not not to argue that we need to do fragmentation on security. But that that that the the use case I had in mind for PSD that involves the sicodeo program in tissue is that's there are some common functionalities that may be applicable to different layers like ipv6pereormtos. And in those cases, it will be prefer to use the same format, and that speaks for you doing it in PST. versus the ISD. Okay. Exactly. That's what I had in my Greg? Stewart, I know that you there are more slides to come, but If I give you the last sentence, can you please summarize and can terminate here because of the time constraint. Right. So to continue the the what I was saying with Joel, I want to make sure No. include PhD as a 1st class citizen in the design. And I think that requires us to put the hooks in on day 1 or we or there's a risk of accidentally precluding it. Okay. I totally agree. Okay. I do wanna give co chairs the last word as well. Anything you want to add, LoRa, Dave"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "Nothing. Okay. Thank you, everyone, who joined today, and Looking forward to seeing you next idea. Bye. Top. guess some, we may pick some of this up at the interims. Yeah. We're being kicked out of the room, Stewart. So we have to at Bye. Thank you. Bye. Bye. I understand. this a lot of my point."
  }
]
