[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:34",
    "text": "[Laughter] [Music] [Music] yeah okay we\u0027re gonna go ahead and start so if you\u0027re presenting you get to see your slides down here if you\u0027re watching you can see the slides over in the meet echo or you can maybe even log in to meet echo are there\u0027s just some problem with getting the signal off - all right so hi I\u0027m Brian Trammell co-chair of my ppm this is AI ppm I see a lot of familiar faces um so I\u0027m assuming pretty much everyone\u0027s in the right room um hialeah welcome I\u0027d like to first introduce our new co-chair Tommy poly um to be running things today basically um yeah okay so everyone welcome Tommy and let\u0027s have a meeting all right welcome to IPM everyone I\u0027m looking forward to joining you and apologies if I don\u0027t know everyone super well right now but I trust that everything will go great so let\u0027s just go through the ministry via so here is the note well you have seen it before make sure you do note it it\u0027s slightly changed yes note it well yes we are so sweater is taking notes for us do we have anyone who\u0027s going to be jabbar scribing okay Brian thank you alright so a quick status update on just the some of our working group documents that we\u0027re not going to be talking about this time we have two documents that are in the RFC editor q1 is the ipv6 Edition 2 2 3 3 0 and I think that one is just in the edit state so it\u0027s nothing particularly new to update their the team I\u0027m being draft does have its Ayana marking gone through and it\u0027s just I think it has a dependency on another draft reference and yeah miss Roffe so I think that\u0027s just waiting on the underlying document yeah great and then we also have a working group working group last call on the T web test document that went out a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:35",
    "text": "little bit ago and that ends today I think we\u0027ve only had a couple responses I\u0027m just saying yeah it looks fine if there are any other concerns please bring those up excuse me only have this small screen yes we can all right sorry yeah that should hopefully be fixed as soon as possible yeah um one person who has not yet said that 14:1 test is okay to stand up and say it\u0027s okay so that we can say we\u0027ve got enough people who paid attention excellent um yeah okay perfect good it\u0027s good so working with last call is now complete um we will I guess it do we have a shepherd assigned to that already I\u0027ll take a look and um yeah okay yep we\u0027ll get it moved along thank you so we have a fairly packed agenda so let\u0027s get moving on we\u0027re almost at the end of our five minutes for administrivia so we\u0027re doing that we have updates on the initial on the metric registry and the initial content of that registry from al following that we will have a number we\u0027ll have a update on the IP pm route Draft and then a whole chunk of IOM updates following that we have two other drafts that are not working group items yet but have been brought up in a hat to the list that have had some discussion so we\u0027ll be going through those and then at the very end we have some time allocated for lightning talks these are going to be limited to five minutes at most each and we will get through them as we have time so any agenda bashing on this alright let\u0027s go a projector I\u0027m al Morten representing a okay well everything else works perfectly so I\u0027m al Morten and this this is the initial registry contents draft that you see displayed there that we\u0027ve been working on obviously for a long time but that\u0027s the draft that feeds into the performance metrics registry draft which has another long list of people and has also been worked on for a long time so they\u0027re really quick summary because I want to get to the discussion I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:35",
    "text": "you\u0027re gonna quickly assess the fact that I would like to see this done I would like to see both of these done and now I can see nothing you can\u0027t or they\u0027re there so anyway let\u0027s see what happens perfect great now everybody\u0027s back online even me so here\u0027s the quick overview by the way who\u0027s read these drafts in any version there are okay several hands coming up thank you there\u0027s a I mean there\u0027s a lot of years of work here so if you\u0027re interested in I ppm at all this is something you really ought to be taking a look at because I\u0027d like it to be done as I said so we\u0027re solving a problem here all the original rfcs for loss and delay and so forth they were written with great flexibility we\u0027re adding precision here now so that if you make the measurement according to the way the registry specifies it and you do all the things the registry says you\u0027re at least starting out with two fairly identical measurement systems you can Prost I still probably do a few things wrong but you know with you you can\u0027t fix everything like that stupid thing so it really applies to all of these active passive and hybrid I\u0027ve I want to be sure that that\u0027s that\u0027s clear here so a passive measurement people and hybrid measurement people you should be reading this this is the first time we\u0027ve had no substantive provisions in the registry itself so that means we\u0027re also closing in on you know the truth and or point of diminishing returns this is what the registry looks like in a graphical form where you can see we\u0027ve got these different categories of summary metric definition methods of measurement the outputs administrative info all that sort of thing so that\u0027s the quicky quicky summary so here\u0027s what happened in versions 7 and 15 respectively this is going to hit all of you authors and editors RFC 2-1-1 9 was updated by RFC 8174 and as Tommy just reminded us we\u0027ve had a couple address just moving through iesg and we got dinged on the fact that neither one of them referenced 8174 which updates the terminology in a nice way if it\u0027s capitalized now it\u0027s supposed to be taken as this definition so everybody needs to do that enough said we\u0027ve revised the passive tcp metric Yakov Stein provided comments as as planned it would still be good to have a look at the heuristics for the methods of measurement there and my friend Brian Trammell who\u0027s here somewhere he\u0027s he\u0027s offered to supply comments on this a few times I really hope you could find good moment yeah we can we can definitely improve the heuristics if we get the Bessemer review there so we clarified thanks to ignosi Asst you know SEOs comments mail with me DNS which is in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:35",
    "text": "Section six it\u0027s a response time and responsible isometric we\u0027ve clarified that that\u0027s from the user perspective there was some thought that we might do some more complicated things measuring DNS what we\u0027re not it\u0027s just this simple thing that everybody else does they do the user measurement so discussion points we got here in like a minute that\u0027s pretty cool so now now is when you all sort of rushed to the mic and give me feedback on these critical points of interest for a DNS response time and loss we need a way basically to track the fact that a given request has either been responded to or not and for that we need the equivalent of a kind of sequence number something to determine correspondence between the and subsequent requests that we make so the offering here is that we could use a random source port or we could try to Populi populate the ID generation which may or may not be supported Brian frankly I\u0027m speaking as an individual so random source port is part of type P which means you might get different paths um treatment so don\u0027t do that okay DNS has an ID field right yeah the query Radian so you can just actually just just do that well register yeah does anybody have any feeling for how well that\u0027s supported though that\u0027s just a question I wait so no I mean you wait there\u0027s a there\u0027s an ID in the query and the response refers to the ID so like yeah it doesn\u0027t work if you don\u0027t use it so it\u0027s not a very okay it\u0027s not a very big space right so you\u0027re actually then limited I think it\u0027s like sixteen bits that\u0027s 16 bits big enough big enough well it means you can\u0027t have more than 64 K outstanding things to the same server at the same time so it depends on I don\u0027t want that you might not want to do it somebody saying it\u0027s a limitation then you\u0027d have to actually talk about it okay or you note that it 16 bits and then people who want to stress test DNS servers will understand they got to go to another IP yeah yeah yeah so that\u0027s 16 that\u0027s great okay let\u0027s consider that well actually we\u0027re not going to consider resolved until Malini speaks thank you you know not to throw a bunch of monkey wrenches into this but DNS is getting encrypted all over the place and being all different and I mean I totally get that I know I know I mean I get the you know I mean that the transaction ID indeed is there in unencrypted what were the you were the endpoint we\u0027re the end point here so we\u0027ll get that we\u0027re we\u0027re we\u0027re in the in the world of relieved opacity so so this is only for for non-passive yeah there\u0027s acting this is active okay yeah yeah okay thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:35",
    "text": "yes all right so that\u0027s one so then we have this other point in section 8 we\u0027ve got this one specific metric for UDP one-way delay and loss the probability variation and things like that there too and we left this open so that people could provide have have some flexibility about the the packet stream that they\u0027re generating and so forth but I\u0027m I\u0027m my tendency is that we should make this fixed time parameters or fixed parameters that we choose for the for the packet periodicity for example in the packet size so any thoughts on that and does it end does anybody have any preference in other words would you like to sort of keep this VoIP like that\u0027s the typical thing for periodic no opinions all right so we\u0027ll try something and we\u0027re gonna make it fixed and and if we don\u0027t review it then we\u0027re all going to live with it how about time I there are tons of measurement systems that do something that\u0027s very VoIP like so I don\u0027t think we can go wrong if we go that way but good thanks alright so next steps open issues for TCP out of review we\u0027ve I think we solved DNS response time and the end the other one I\u0027m gonna take a shot at I know that we got input basically from the XR block folks Rachel you you were thinking about adding some metrics you guys looked at the I went to the meeting you guys looked at the at the registry Jonathan was kind of flipped out by the size of the document and how big the reference though each entry was but but it\u0027s an RFC to you know so it has the function of of being an RFC for these things as well so yeah I think you guys agreed to work on some new metrics just nod or say no she\u0027s coming to the mic yeah yeah so uh yeah in the last meeting we discussed this and I think yeah some people may think that you know have a registry but be useful yeah some people may still think it doesn\u0027t have value to do that so some people apply on something so this may not happen that\u0027s not hot I think I need to see people how how many people interesting this and won\u0027t you contribute in this draft I think so maybe it\u0027s doing more discussion but actually current the except rock doesn\u0027t happen in new work and have our meetings "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:35",
    "text": "this time so we so that\u0027s a factor to God yeah okay that kind of the remind you make sure you share your name with Rachel Rachel yeah Rachel from Holly yeah thank you and innocently the blue sheets up here for folks coming in late that might want to sign it all right so really the TCC TCP section URIs --tx is where we\u0027re looking for more review and that\u0027s it for this one so I thank you for your feedback today and the status reports and stuff like that cool thank you I know it also just one comment on that because I\u0027m fairly new to these since I was reading through these documents they are quite long but I think they\u0027re very well-written they\u0027re very good introduction to the space and so not everyone did raise their hand on this for having read it so I encourage you to go through it and do get feedback because these are important okay so this is a completely different talk on a completely different draft it\u0027s the advanced unidirectional route assessment which I\u0027m doing with not Ignacio is the first person there Yocum is the third and Carlos is the fourth and I\u0027m al so here\u0027s our here\u0027s our quick background we got this going really in draft form far before I see our ATF 1999 and we worked it through to adoption in 101 got lots of good comments along the way so that it\u0027s jumping quickly to the good verbal feedback we got from the last session that we needed to qualify what can be discovered here for the kind of the active and traceroute methods and we\u0027ve actually done that three times in the text now so there can\u0027t be missed we\u0027ve got the new methods where we even move them now into the methodology section on temporal composition and this routing class see that we\u0027ve been talking about and waving our hands about those are in the new methodology section we\u0027re kind of referring to addition existing tools there for sure in terms of parish trace draft in fact when we started this draft Bryan\u0027s first advice to us was start with parish trace wrap and that was a good place to start and then the i/o and am stuff appeared as we were working on it and that was another place to start in the hybrid space so that we also had comments about let\u0027s incorporate MPLS in here somehow so we generalized our definitions to do that but now we\u0027ve actually got a proposal for an appendix which we included in the draft text from rüdiger guide that talks about MPLS and carlos has reviewed it we\u0027ve got some few things to fix there anything else on this oh yeah and on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:37",
    "text": "this on the reporting section we basically said look there\u0027s a place this RFC where we talked about storage of trace routes that\u0027s in in retrospect that\u0027s not going to cover everything we talked about here and I think I\u0027ll get to that in a moment actually I\u0027m gonna because I\u0027m in control I\u0027m just gonna go do that so you know trace routes are composed of hops each route is represented as an ordered graph so this is the ordered Oriya graph for a single member route and with with by designating the host with this hij terminology we can we can actually make a kind of a multi-dimensional tupple here it has to include the host identity but all the rest of the things here are optional like the arrival interface ID departure interface arrival timestamp and a round-trip time measurement that went along with with that information so this is what a route ensemble looks like skipping the source node and so this one would cover you know multiple cases anytime you have a unique route where some of the hops change now you\u0027ve got a different member of the ensemble so that\u0027s the quick background here all right yes so in version 2 as I mentioned we\u0027ve worked hard on temporal composition for route metrics why because if you\u0027ve ever done trace routes and then done it again and done it again a lot of them the results are highly continuous repeatable you get the same answer many times that\u0027s the way to put it the spot what you would basically do is is kind of reduce your repetitive tests so the cases that are interesting and we\u0027re kind of saying that that really the load balancing places are the ones that you really want to look more and more often but we\u0027ve got your wrist except they look if you see anything else change in a spot check of the other things that you think are constant now you got to rerun the whole thing so so that\u0027s what we\u0027ve got in there for temporal composition it\u0027s not a predictor of the future it\u0027s just using the past to try to reduce the amount of test time that we\u0027re taking up so now we\u0027ve identified that there are some load balancing cops in our trace route and what we\u0027ve observed there is that load balancing hops treat packets of what we\u0027re calling a routing class see equally and we talked about this route this class-c concept many times it originally appeared in our original framework and we have let\u0027s say enhanced it and and better defined it in the RFC 77 99 which talks about active passive and the hybrid methods of measurement and it it would potentially be a metric parameter that we would use in this work so going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:37",
    "text": "back to our terminology each member root of a root ensemble has a routing Class C and I should say the I should say the thing about why I\u0027m using this word routing this adjective routing there\u0027s there used to be Class C addresses and it came up in discussion that people flipped out that we thought we were talking about Class C here for the old address space you know the class classical address space we\u0027re not we\u0027re not it\u0027s a different it\u0027s a fully different class seat here so so as I said each member of the route has a Class C so there\u0027s a synergy with the temporal composition in that now you know the kinds of things that we\u0027re interested in determining about the load balanced portions of the path temporal composition actually helps us determine those and and avoid testing around them so we think it\u0027s very useful to know in fact it says that both in twenty three thirty and seventy seven ninety-nine and then your line is how useful is it come on pay attention everybody let\u0027s get with the program here this is supposed to be an active discussion you know I think it\u0027s hybrid so route measurement at a midpoint has anybody ever heard of this does that mean anybody ever done it it becomes important when you make a midpoint passive offers observation of a stream that you can only sort of observe and because you observe that stream having a problem what happens next you want to figure out where the problem is right maybe it\u0027s got a round-trip time larger than you might expect well where\u0027s the congestion half or the delay variation that\u0027s causing that round-trip time to expand I think this is a great idea but what can we do this well at the hackfest I hacked around with spoofing the source IP address and I figured this would work and and and and it actually has to work if you can observe both paths through your observation point and and that\u0027s one of the things that we at least in this path that you should be able to do the bad news about spoofing your IP address or somebody else\u0027s IP address is that now they\u0027re going to get unexpected you know a destination not reachable from certain points along the path probably not good not good but and it but it\u0027s an interesting way to start this you know to sort of see okay is there really stuff out there that we can look at so it turns out the end-to-end flow conforms to a specific routing Class C so it\u0027s going to have a lot of flows around it in terms of source address and destination address source port destination port and protocol which will also fit in that same routing class C and now when we\u0027re at this midpoint we can launch new flows we can examine the RTT to intermediate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:39",
    "text": "hops and we can perform other diagnostic measurements from that midpoint and and they\u0027ll follow the same path as long as they\u0027re part of the Class C that our flow of interest has helped us to define along with the examination of the route so I think that\u0027s a cool thing and I think it also is partly answered to the question of if you guys measure this RT T at a midpoint are you going to do with it this is one of the things we could do with it so it\u0027s plus any comments on that anybody want to help I don\u0027t want to go first next time [Laughter] no I don\u0027t help I don\u0027t help latex I do want to help hack on some tools and I\u0027m going to I don\u0027t think he\u0027s here so I can volunteer on his behalf on a volunteer yari yard also do some hacking on these tools cuz this is so it\u0027s interesting to me that like traceroute is kind of old and boring and dead not dead but I mean so if you look at if you look at like almost all different like you know most of the trace routes sort of in open measurement now are done on right that was nodes because it\u0027s a huge network and if you look at though at the code in the right that lets note it\u0027s actually got comments from Van Jacobs and in it so it\u0027s like the original trace right yeah but it\u0027s old there\u0027s other stuff that you can do in this space that\u0027s really interesting so I\u0027m gonna put my chair hat back on now um a lot of this stuff is actually new we\u0027re developing new algorithms for traceroute like stuff so Rory\u0027s interested in this - which is why I\u0027m volunteering them - yeah take a look at the document and and look at his sort of he\u0027s doing a little bit of hacking around on stuff like this um and it makes me wonder about the status this document so what is it now what are we targeting oh in other words them for the milestone no well no like so intend to status intended document status Oh standard track yeah yeah okay hmm but there\u0027s I mean when we\u0027re talking about methodologies yeah and we\u0027re talking about tools to back up the methodology great and and I\u0027ve like I said I\u0027ve started hacking around with parish traceroute the MDA you version of it for me it\u0027s all about results presentation yes we determine what Class C is writing class C that helps us determine you know what other things we can do from that vantage point okay all right I bet that\u0027s still good all right thanks okay all right and give their "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:39",
    "text": "comments so we\u0027ve got some to do\u0027s some of which we\u0027ve done actually we did the first one about investigating parish trace routes v6 capability it we have to have some other stuff to do there especially adding cautions about the methods we\u0027ve already added questions about the metrics but you can but you can probably say some things too that are useful about what happens when you use good measurements badly uh I think and we did an MPLS appendix so but we\u0027ve got more to do with that so we need to complete the work items working group and authors continue your review of the temporal methods the classy methods the multi multi point detection multi path detection algorithms stuff look at look at tools for this I think you\u0027ll find that that\u0027s valuable all the material all the material on that topic is in Section four and we\u0027re still looking for review for the later sections which Ignacio is the primary primary author of and where he\u0027s used the round trip delay to do analysis to find things like congestion points and stuff like that determining link types and so forth so that\u0027s um all to do I think that\u0027s it yeah yeah that\u0027s it any more questions coming to that volunteers to review the draft Leah great Thank You Leah all right thank you out thank you thank you all right next up we have Frank and many IO am dr. it even looks cool so this is an update on a variety of drafts and a couple of new drafts and Mickey is here it\u0027s gonna go a help with a raw export draft so we\u0027ll talk about the the main data graph that we have adopted for awhile now and we\u0027re talking about a couple of individual contributions for now that we\u0027re hoping to get adopted very soon on encapsulating iom data into the expand GP age and eve GRE and now so ipv6 there\u0027s a new draft on that and well the obvious question is how do you get the data off box we have an export draft for that now so that the D capsulated note can go on to export the data we\u0027re not munching around with the data we\u0027re just exporting it which is why it\u0027s called well export and then mostly as an FYI the SFC working group between last meeting and today has adopted a draft on Io I\u0027m Ana\u0027s HN encapsulations or making progress there and they also adopted the prove of transit draft so to actually prove that a packet made it through a sequence of hops so that\u0027s related week one topic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:41",
    "text": "that came up and it also spilled over to a couple of other area mailing lists was that the section that we had on layering iom data wasn\u0027t really entirely clear and so we updated that one section with yet another well half sentence basically saying well you can have iom data in one protocol like the expand GPE or genie for NS h and if genève happens to run over ipv6 you can have iom data in the layer below like the v6 layer as well and it doesn\u0027t necessarily need to be kind of from the same operator up this way so you can go and put that data because well the one link might be operated by the guys who runs OpenStack and harass the jean-yves overlay and the underlay might be by the v6 underlay operator so we try to go and clarify that hopefully that\u0027s good enough for everybody by now because while after proposing that language also publicly we\u0027ve not really seen any further comments well we also clarified and that\u0027s based on a comment of Tom Herbert is that once you do the encapsulation you should closely follow the recommendations for reuse of port numbers or use of port numbers and 7605 which basically says well UDP port numbers are not globally unique if you haven\u0027t well have an uncontrolled environment like the global internet so don\u0027t touch content just because it carries a genève UDP number the content might not be genève so don\u0027t blindly update information in transit nodes because you believe it might be iom data carried within genève don\u0027t do that it\u0027s there so there is a must not statement for kind of global Internet deployment in the various encapsulation drafts we\u0027re going to discuss in a second then we also started to do the laundry that we have probably that we promised in the last meeting largely around the security section and many thanks to tell to go and do that work so there is now a variety of potential attacks that you can go do if you have IOM present so obviously you can fake the IOM data to make the consumer of iam data believe that the information well leads you to failures that don\u0027t exist or you can kind of capture failures or hide failures in a positive and a negative way you can well expose Network information to people who shouldn\u0027t know that well the network information is there so you cannot get an understanding of the network topology despite the fact that you don\u0027t want to go and expose "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:41",
    "text": "that you can use it to consume resources because we add data to the package so we increase the packet lengths that\u0027s potentially bad if it\u0027s uncontrolled we consume resources that\u0027s potentially bad if it\u0027s uncontrolled so all of these things are potentially bad if they\u0027re uncontrolled the good thing is I um is defined for a constrained domain for an operational domain as opposed to it runs on the global Internet so all of these things need to be taken into consideration so we\u0027ve basically listed all the bad things that can happen one thing that came up also with the layering discussion and I touched on that briefly is if you have a genève layer and the other v6 layer underneath we always refer back in the document like all the information that we have an old ID a interface ID that\u0027s all its own namespace it all relates to a domain an operational environment do we ever in any shape or form on the wire or anywhere else identify that domain at name space we don\u0027t so let\u0027s say an area that we still believe we want to go and do some cleanup on because we refer to the network domain so we refer to the namespace but we don\u0027t carry the namespace identifier anywhere because yeah if you have that namespace identifier if you just export data then well the exporting information would not only have the individual node ID ie 13 or interface ID 25 but you also have the contacts that tells you ok this is the namespace that this information is relevant in so what we want to go do and that\u0027s a proposal and I want to go and hear or feedback from that is add a namespace identifier to well top-level iom data so that you can say well this is the namespace that i refer to and all the additional data that i have is to be understood for within this particular namespace and well if we had this it also helps us with some ambiguity and some additional requirements that we\u0027ve seen floating around so there is a couple of graphs that we\u0027ve even seen being read out here about limitations that you see with the current IO am data field definition so people dream off additional fields for specific use cases you can say well there is a couple of fields in IO am today that are almost free format we had app data for instance app data is 32 or 64 bits free format well so it depends on the namespace how you interpret that now if we have a clear linkage to the namespace well then somebody can say well this app data means GPS geolocation for my Pacific use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:41",
    "text": "case or it refers to a template ID like what the me IFA guys want so that an individual note can say well I updated just this portion of the overall data in the IOM feel as opposed to all the things or I can say well this app data is to be interpreted as well into packet gap so if we have a clarification of this namespace I think we make it far more clear that certain things are really contained within a context and so I\u0027d love to hear more comments on that later on as we go through the discussion so that I think is the updates or the considered updates for the data graph then we have a bunch of encapsulation graphs and we briefly discussed them in the last meeting and they haven\u0027t really changed much above and beyond the discussions on layering so we added a couple of additional notes there so we have an a capsulation graph 4vx LAN GP e and the format is almost always the same so we add the IOM data fields just after the typical shim header that you would use for one or the other encapsulations 4vx LAN GP we use the next protocol header and then you typically have the typical structure and I I think I can\u0027t walk there because then the mics not working with me you have an IU am type you have the header length and then you have an indication for what the next protocol would be so that you can go and chain the whole thing in that\u0027s what the exam GB and genève genève doesn\u0027t really provision for anything next protocol structures but genève has the benefit or the ability to go and carry till these in its own header environment so in genève we\u0027re just using the available POV format capability so that you\u0027re using in geni if you\u0027re using an option class for iom and then the type is either one of the four types that we have in IOM ie pre-allocate a trace incremental choice and two and and to end or or approve transit and so then again you just slot in all the data that you would naturally have in an IOM context that we\u0027ve done with the reformatting earlier on in the last revision the the IOM space is almost self-contained by now the same goes for GRE and with GRE I think that\u0027s the de-facto and the easiest way to go and do I am over r-e for because all you would need is spend four bytes to go and slot in the GRE header there and then well you can go on again dump in the before and from the IOM information and what is new and just recently published is we have a draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:41",
    "text": "for ipv6 by now the information was roughly out there because we had a an informational draft that we put out early on mostly just to appraise everybody of what can be done to showcase that IOM can be carried in v6 options and well if you read through the draft it basically just says well you use the option of choice that you have in v6 the extension header to go and slot in the the IOM data so that means for a e2e you\u0027re using destination options because they\u0027re running into end and for everything else like incremental and pre-allocated trace as well as P ot you\u0027re using hop-by-hop options and well that\u0027s basically it so we just need coat points for those things from six-man and some same just it\u0027s not gonna be a just probably because we\u0027re touching hop-by-hop right and that\u0027s but that\u0027s it and I hand over to Mickey for a discussion on raw export and then well we can go and have a closing discussion on maybe the the namespace ID and other of things that Mickey\u0027s gonna go bring up think okay so rock sport yes okay so everything we just talked about was pretty much in the data plane how do we carry all this fun io am data from one node to another node you know eventually we want to get it off the network so this figure is just explaining what we think raw export is and why it\u0027s a problem that we\u0027re trying to address so the green on the bottom packets are going through a bunch of nodes some node decides okay I\u0027m I\u0027m done with this stuff maybe up the at the edge of the domain take out all that iom data that we have now what do I do with it and we\u0027re saying that in order to really optimize the data plane nodes and those IOM nodes at the bottom we want to make the export as simple as possible so raw export means we\u0027re basically taking chunks of packets and I OEM headers stuffing them in a simple format and getting them off to some data processing system from that point on whether the data processing system does analytics itself or it then aggregates in or interprets or processes info and then punts that up to an analytic system whatever you want right there\u0027s there\u0027s many options for how to put the pieces together so the goal here was as simple as possible for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:41",
    "text": "the data plane nodes the exporting node does not interpret aggregate or reformat IOM data before it\u0027s exported we\u0027re offloading all that to the data processing system so when we looked at what can we do for the format of getting all this stuff off of the system IP fix is commonly used for flow related things today it\u0027s more statistics but you can also do packet sampling and various things like that and so we took a course look at IP fix and figure that it has a lot of the things that we might need and there\u0027s just a few extra information elements that we could add and then we would have a full format for doing all this raw export one thing I note just the bullet on the bottom that\u0027s not actually in text it\u0027s in the draft but depending on your implementation if you\u0027re highly optimizing the data plane often in Hardware you\u0027re probably not going to support the full flexibility of hey you know tell me what template you want and so on you may find that implementation does a small number of fixed formats that it can highly optimized and that it will adjust alignment constraints and such so that it can process that at billions of packets per second so among the IP fix information elements that already exists that we can just use we have an IP header packet section and note that an IP header packet section it starts with the IP header but depending on the length of that packet section it can keep going into various headers after that including possibly IO a.m. that is embedded within you can do the same thing with Ethernet using datalink frame section and there\u0027s other things there\u0027s a section exported octets and forwarding status if you\u0027re reporting drop packets then you\u0027ll find forwarding status of great interests basically the first three bits are telling you did I forward the packet that I drop it did something else happen and then the next five bits like if you\u0027re dropping you can give you can specify why the packet was dropped so what we wanted to add we wanted to add a few information elements so one is report Flags maybe that should be renamed but it was just trying to give a kind of the broad categories on why I want to report this particular info so did I drop a packet did I see congested queues is it just a fro that matched a Knakal or something else I said hey I want to know about all about these flows encapsulation type if it\u0027s none it\u0027s just a pure what\u0027s in the data draft if it\u0027s one of the others and you start with the shim header that Frank just explained in the various end "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:41",
    "text": "caps you go continue on into the I um data and possibly continue after that and when you have four data chunks corresponding to the four type shion\u0027s of IOM that we have today the pre-allocated incremental and an edge edge and proof of transit so once we have all those it\u0027s up to you how you want to put them together but we thought it was useful to list some examples of how you might layout these information elements in a template so of course it\u0027s not mandated to use exactly this template the simplest way to go would be to only have we have most of the info just in an IP header packet section and then it\u0027s long enough that it continues on into the IOM data after that you still may want things like report flags and maybe a forwarding status other than that you you throw a length on it you\u0027re pretty much done another way to go you could use the IP header packet section just as more for the outer fields to tell you what the flow is you can identify what the flow is that you care about and then pull out some of the IOM and phone put it on top and you can do various combinations of which things are fixed length which are variable length and so on so that pretty much covers what\u0027s in the draft I did have some questions and I sent a more detailed message to the mailing list but these were more around there are certain fields if you look at the definitions of information almost like IP header packet section they had a certain restriction so you have to put things like section exported architects in certain cases you may or may not be allowed to put padding and it just seemed like you could cut out a few bytes if we updated those but that\u0027s kind of an open question can we change the definitions of fields basically if you go to the ANA registry you see all the stuff today and so I\u0027m just gonna go ahead and get in line because me so I Brian Trammell um not as chair actually as one of the designated experts for the I Anna IP fix information elements the short answer to your question is read RFC 7013 and dry again the most of the changes that you\u0027re proposing here are non interoperable with existing implementations as far as I see right like you actually likes relaxing restrictions that might break collectors that are relying on those restrictions however this is not a very scarce number space we have it\u0027s like you get 15 bits "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:42",
    "text": "and we\u0027re down in the 400s now so um so you\u0027re saying if there\u0027s enough of a win it might make sense to do IOM specific packet section by ease right so design what you want the downside is that you know existing collectors will have to then get the update but you\u0027re talking about changing a definition that might break those existing collectors anyway so it\u0027s the same amount of time for the existing collectors update okay um through is data line frame section not deprecated I thought we deprecated that one I let me go actually have a look at the at the I was like okay yeah it would have been it would have been deprecated along oh no no no no no sorry no that one\u0027s good no sorry that I thought it was a section offset no that\u0027s fine yeah um yeah so short answer read 1713 okay um slightly longer answer reads already thirteen and and really consider whether you want to reuse these II\u0027s because I don\u0027t think you can tweak them to be exactly what you want I think you can basically create new ones by reference like optimizing them will break them yeah this was all optimizations it\u0027s a few bytes it doesn\u0027t rate break the underlying yeah right yeah or you can you can also use suction offset I didn\u0027t see suction offset anywhere in the document so yeah actually I thought I listed it yeah yeah so take a look it can be in there yes it wasn\u0027t clear to me that it\u0027s a big win in terms of Freight yeah intergrate did actually I it slows you down quite a bit so yeah so a little bit of history like this was all done for for a completely different effort called PCM yeah um so it was kind of optimized for that but not really um so yeah I definitely consider whether or not these are really what you want because the what what you\u0027re trying to do to take the IOM information out is semantically different enough from just random parts the IP header that it might make sense to define to do ie anyway it\u0027s not that big a deal so I guess I mean you\u0027re already defining your I using the document so one more long really great think yeah sure okay million elkins ever two different kinds of comments one functionally and I\u0027m from a higher level this is extremely cool very good data in a you know that if we can kind of like I if I\u0027m understanding it correctly you\u0027re gonna grab all this stuff passively and then search and just take the IOM data which is very cool yeah but you know there are a lot of enterprises have huge passive data capture devices which are taking the whole packet no I\u0027m saying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:43",
    "text": "and and I\u0027m just I\u0027m just thinking this stuff out in my head so I\u0027m just I want you know do you have a you want to talk about that to think about a little bit or discuss or offline I mean the thought here was that you\u0027re getting iom data at your edge nodes whether they do any stateful processing to figure out which things they want to export which things they just want to don\u0027t want to export because they think it\u0027s redundant that\u0027s always an option usually you wouldn\u0027t do the entire packet you would do some chunk of the packet and you know they\u0027re already words and like those IP hat or any packet sections and such that you shouldn\u0027t do the whole packet because it\u0027s security and this and that and so on it refers the various documents and discussions that have been done earlier I\u0027m not sure if I answered what you\u0027re like yeah yeah we can talk offline I guess what I\u0027m saying is on a lot of enterprise networks there are huge packet capture devices already that are capturing the entire packet including the i/o I mean of course I mean the IOM data comes with it it\u0027s just what\u0027s that huge packet brokers you know having said that having said that this is very cool because you know you\u0027re not having to filter and stuff and it\u0027s just the data you want is that kind of your point yeah so yeah the hope was to do this somewhat intelligently that based on the data that you were receiving you could actually decide what you want to keep and what you don\u0027t want to keep just know we are running up on our time here so let\u0027s cut the line and make this quick yeah so this is I\u0027m relaying jakob Stein who as you know job or who is basically raising the point that any time you\u0027re taking bits of packages they\u0027re flowing by and exporting them that may raise serious security issues I\u0027ll also note that the on that point um when piece and went through the whole process there were a lot of 2804 concerns so is this wiretapping or not right so be be prepared in sort of the later process of this yeah I mean Russian will be asked the the quick answer was to take exactly the text that P Sam did in the IP header packet section and frame section but we are whether that\u0027s enough we\u0027ll have that discussion that was yeah yeah and I think to the earlier note and this is why you have this two-step approach shown in one of the diagrams earlier right so you strip the information off the packet and then you might propose or further process it and that one step taking it off and and handling somewhere else might even be in a contained same box still right and that might mitigate some of the security concerns but it might not be lay the same entity IUD couple data plane and maybe the brain or the control plane portion and I have another question can you go to the final slide no no one further just quickly chat "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:46",
    "text": "about next steps please yeah yeah okay so so next step so the I um data draft has been fairly stable and there\u0027s a question whether we\u0027re ready for a working group last call does anyone object to working group last call on IOM data alright well go ahead and start one probably after this meeting I mean I guess we can do it like right now huh wait so the name splays identifier we still want to go an all right okay and yeah so um yeah crank crank the revision and ping bitshares um maybe hard I\u0027m going on vacation for this for a couple weeks but Tommy knows how to yeah push the buttons so just not on the data but on the encapsulations of course one is genève has the ethertype field for next protocol just like GRE does and it would be nice if there\u0027s a rationale for them being different to have that articulated because otherwise you\u0027re just adding complexity I don\u0027t understand yet why I\u0027m sure there\u0027s a reason if but please take a look at that and also the packet format for the GRE version doesn\u0027t reflect 2890 which updated the base G re SPECT so it should really do that particularly people are doing you know implementation so minor points on the namespace question how I I like the idea of namespace it also lets you do different administrative domains you can have the ability to say strip out information when it\u0027s crossing a point so I think it has a lot of power it also lets you handle say overly under play situations I think it\u0027s got flexibility beyond I\u0027m not sure you thought of it beyond just clarification of the meaning of the fields involved I think it lets should do some really useful administrative policies so the encapsulation draft so three of them have existed now over meetings and so for those three we were wondering if we could call for a working group adoption on the vehicle and GPE Genevan GRE sure is that someone want to do a list let\u0027s take that question cool even I should have prepared better I guess but it wasn\u0027t the original plan to bring this to the working group so actually work on those protocols yeah so the idea was to bring them here because there was not a whole lot of interest but to have all of the discussion echoed over to those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:47",
    "text": "lists and to have the working group last call also split out into the to the appropriate working groups of encapsulations it\u0027s basically is the encapsulation here but the point of the review here is to make sure that it all works well with IOM and the point the review there is to make sure it isn\u0027t break the end caps where those draft presented at the respective working groups already um Frank can you speak to that so in Geneva we add that discussion GRE not so far as far as I know our v6 definitely not because that\u0027s brand new but again so that the problem that we face and we we started the other way around right nsh was okay the genève people in nvo 3 I\u0027m not saying that they couldn\u0027t care less but there was a load of not a load of energy there we talked to the list guys on the Excel and GP and the lights the problem is that you typically start from scratch and explain all the contacts and then you a load of questions on IOM as opposed to we need a coke point guys all we need is a coke point from you guys and so we thought that that\u0027s mature it here where people have the context and if people in I ppm think this is okay then we go and well discuss the protocol related aspects but not the I um related aspects with the respect of Winkle I think that was the rationale because sodding the other way around well you present and then next one right so don\u0027t don\u0027t have the contacts that might not even care about the contacts because they don\u0027t care about ivy i ôm right because there you have yet another person asking for a coke point and that\u0027s okay as far as adoption here you\u0027re just discussing and i think we can follow this up on email or on the list but he would make sense probably to at least make sure that all of the other groups are aware of that at least in some form before we adopt anyone other given draft so if we\u0027ve already talked about genève maybe adopt that one but let\u0027s but if we want to do them all at the same time let\u0027s make sure that all of the relevant groups are aware of it at least before we continue work on that right including six-man yeah thank you okay yeah yeah that\u0027d be great please do that yeah okay and we should get moving ahead on our schedule if that\u0027s okay yes as frank it said point a point of and they\u0027re moving us here so you get the focus i don\u0027t think that due to scheduling etcetera that there\u0027s been a lot of looking at the impact of some of the Appalachians but they\u0027re like the impact of it it sort of be nice to at least get routing directorates or you know RT gwg or this kind of thing I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any concern I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a territory argument about oh here do them there I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:47",
    "text": "consolidating the work in one place with people who really care about is clearly being very beneficial for the work it\u0027s getting the eyes on but doing cross adoption working group adoption calls or something would be helpful the excellent GP is interesting because as far as I know the excellent GP isn\u0027t standardized or being standardized there\u0027s not an RFC for it it\u0027s explicitly their will at some point I mean assuming that nvo 3 does what we agreed on a while ago eventually there will eventually be an informational document saying the excellent GP it was a choice that was not selected to be standardized but I feel like it\u0027s different this is there\u0027s not a it\u0027s anything that type could point you need an ether type once you have an ether type you can do all sorts of fun things right it is but but that\u0027s the piece it\u0027s going to be complicated for the excellent GP one that\u0027s also at stake so on so I think what we need to do is I have a look I need to have a look at all these documents because I didn\u0027t but for for the I think it\u0027s actually just the decision of the other working group to redirect this work to this working group it\u0027s not that we can decide it over here so it probably makes sense to coordinate between the chairs and the ATS what to do but I mean both is possible right you can like the question is where to actually adopt it and right around the formal process but like having working a joint working group last call and discussion can also have them in those groups where wherever there\u0027s more interest like even if you get it adopting the other working group you can still presented here and discuss it here yeah recommended me okay that was before you were ad so I mean you can it might be no the promise might be recommendation it might be different recommendation for each of these documents right I think for actually for six men the official recommendation is to have it not in six men right right that yeah we already had that with uh with video so it\u0027s still the case that you should go there and let them know that it exists but we can do it here for everything else we have to check on respective spaces yeah okay thank you very much and reminder for people on microphone discipline please state your name there\u0027s been some confusion in the chat room so Giuseppe can you put yourself in the queue here we go all right um so hello hello yeah so just uh yeah we didn\u0027t get the request in for remote presenting so if you can just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:47",
    "text": "tell us next slide we can we can do that for you okay this is an update of the multi-point alternate marking draft so we changed to works on things after the long term meeting so the disease\u0027s light gives you a recap about the document change we moved from 0 to 2 0 to version and then to 0 4 we got uncomment after Londo meeting I want to thank algae Intel Rachel for the feedbacks and there is a list of the main points that have been modified in during the last batch so in summary we detail better the description of multi point approach the example of the cluster the algorithm for cluster partition we have more details from delay particular there are a two way of my measurement one that is there is multi-point cut very this approach and the other one that is based on single path bases and then we add the new section on timing aspect that extend the corresponding section of air FCAT 321 I want to thank thanks Alfred these quit bullyin put so next so in summary multi-point alternate marking is the RFC a treatment one development so this is an announcement of this refseq because the arab CH 321 is valid seems to be valid only for point to point but in this draft we want to extend this definition or any kind of unicast rules not to Monica\u0027s not are not multicast but to any kind of unicast pros but in general and multi-point to multi-point probes and in particular the multi-point alternate marking approach adds flexibility to performance management allow an Orchestrator to control and in particular to enables the dynamic dynamic performance and monitoring because there is possibility to configure the desired performance measurement statistics depending on the needs and on the status of the network so next yeah this is the basic base idea that is the cluster pack across general if we have a multi-point to multi-point network we can find the partition of these networks with sub networks and the clusters are the smallest sub networks where the packet rows property is valid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:49",
    "text": "so pocket rows property means that the number of packet incoming are equal to the number of out to in path so in general the network clustering approach is very useful because without a natural clustering we can monitor only the entire network or single probe otherwise with network clustering we can use the natural caustic or Ethan to perform the needed degree of detail so we can make clusters zooming on the network like a figure next okay dislike so a simple algorithm cast a partition so this is a new paragraph that handed after some comments received so in general there is a two step powdery the first step is to group all the links where there is the same starting node and the second step enjoying the cupid links at least one ending node in comma so in the figure we can see that all the nodes we put the first step we can have five groups and with the second step the group number two and group number three join you to have the cluster so in general that in that net multi-point partner fine this is just to give you an example on how to apply these to step out during next life this is a very new section that has been used after being from owl in general of course if we have a lot of source nodes that mark our topic we can have an alignment in marking intervals of each marking the nodes because in general if we have an endpoint network we can have multiple marking nodes so we have to define the measurement intervals and that case we have to consider the misalignment in the timing that consideration so if we if we want to talk about the precision of this methodology we have to consider these alignment between markings of structures in terms of different lengths of the marking intervals and different offset and you know that marking method need to work that the available continued interval will be greater than zero so if we consider the the misalignment of between the marking nodes will be added to the deal that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:51",
    "text": "already includes error and network delay the condition that must be satisfied that must be satisfied is always the same and is that the available contain interval must degrade and this give you the new conditions that make multi-point marking metered useful to just in this conduit so next okay these are described the measurement approach that can be distinguished into two possible ways of measurement the first way to perform the delay measurement is a multi-point at basis measurement so in that case the delay value is representative of the entire multi-point path this means that example that we want to apply the min delay the min delay is difference between the mean time stamps of the set of output nodes and the set of input nodes so the mean clay is representative of boot appointment otherwise we could we can apply the same measurement on single packet basis measurement so it became a point-to-point measure but it is based on the multi-point path that means that multiple paths just use Erdem that aid to couple the the samples between input nodes and output nodes single marking based on Priscilla\u0027s packet cannot be used because the batch boundary not valid in multi-point approach double marking were neglected marking words the little limitation at the time detailer laughs but there is no time to explain this hashing is a more general solutions because clusters simplify the coupling of symbols and marking meet or done called the table to a specific rapidity go next so this slide details a little bit more about hashing sampling so that is detailing into FC 5475 the combination is to RFC give an easy way to perform the delay because we can use the basic cache so methodologies where they alternate marking split the continuous flow into marking batches and these anchors the hashing samples for for each video this is simple way to apply the aschen methodology but to utilize a cache in a number of simple depends on packet pre otherwise we should use a sort of dynamic cache that can be applied with an iterative value "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:51",
    "text": "it where it is possible to use a number of sample is almost constant or each marking period and detail of diesel karate vulgar and statistically converge for each mark Imperial to a value to a constant value of over a simple also in that case the iterative algorithm in detail within the draw there is no time to describe so next this is a typical use case we have also mentioned in the summary of this presentation so in general multi-point or ultimate marking allows a flexible dynamic that\u0027s the end of the performance management because if you have our the controller can configure a row row performance management so without examining and only if we we experience some pocket release like you can go in deep and we can detail about filtering criteria and cross the partition in order to perform a detailed analysis so this is the what we means for dynamic performance measurement and there are two ways one way is the filtering and the other way is in the faster cause cluster can be also combined between each other so next okay just the last slide that so this methodology are the new points of you to do ultimate marking method it adds flexibility dynamic performance measurement Nichols or use other techniques that are actual technique for example that is not so used but the coupling between ashing technique and multi-point ultimate marking is varied and that since that we had a lot of comments we want to ask for working group adoption so hi thanks Giuseppe I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna one calls for adoption this time around we\u0027re still trying to drain the queue hopefully between now and Bangkok at the latest at Bangkok cuz she a show of hands here who\u0027s read these records draft okay so we have a few um I think it yeah it seems it seems perfectly reasonable it\u0027s doing adoption call but we do try to keep the sort of the docket of the working group a little bit slimmer we\u0027re gonna get um so there\u0027s one working group last call that\u0027s done we\u0027ll see if we can get another one out I think stamp is getting pretty close to done as well and once we get those out this will be next up okay okay cool we\u0027ll keep "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:53",
    "text": "working on it right like I mean there\u0027s the there\u0027s you know if running it through and then adopting and then you know we can also adopt and do a relatively quick jump to wgl see as well right so it\u0027s the thing is not to have quite such a big list of currently active crafts so alright um thank you very much okay thank you Thanks so no meaning if you come on up we are running sort of like - a bunch of minutes we give you a 15 minute slot you have 14 minutes max if you can go even faster that\u0027ll let us get to even it - at least one of the Lightning talks which is remote so yeah okay this one hour this draft combines the marking method and also PDM and the reason we did it is because PDM is in two end and marketing has airing marking needed to be v6 v6 stuff and we wanted pass stuff so these are the PDM fields that\u0027s that\u0027s RFC 8250 i believe we already have it and that\u0027s the end-to-end information and you know you can get the round-trip delay it\u0027s all in the destination options header but what we don\u0027t have is the one-way path delay and or the middle box stuff so marking has some real interesting things about it is that you can batch packets together and look at the timestamps and stuff and you and you can do average packet delay so with giuseppe we were talking about it and it looked like this might be a way to meet both our ends so now I\u0027m gonna stop talking a little bit slower here this is actually the only slide that\u0027s worth looking at sorry Janell but this is the only slide that\u0027s that\u0027s of interest what this has this is the hbh header and you can see the top part and if there\u0027s a pointer here the top part as the the marking stuff you can see the marking the marking type and the reserved field and the idea is this will go from middle box to middle box whatever you consider a middle box to be and we\u0027ve all thrown that around a bunch as to exactly who is going to update this what we want is to know when I say we I\u0027m talking about the you know the enterprises that I work with and some people from ISPs who\u0027ve looked at it say this is a quite a deal of interest to them as well is like as it\u0027s going along "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:54",
    "text": "the hop where is the packet getting messed up where is it stopping who\u0027s who\u0027s doing what with it who\u0027s the last guy that touched it that was of interest and so that\u0027s what\u0027s in here we\u0027ve been through a bunch about what exactly middle box identify your means we\u0027re very open to yeah very open to comments on that there is a protocol called MB TLS or some call MC TLS and it\u0027s it\u0027s a relatively immature right now but they\u0027ve got this concept of a middle box identifier some people have suggested the ipv4 address but I don\u0027t know how you get that in a 16-bit field but anyway we\u0027re will open real open to that Brian yeah keep going yeah we got it you know they say this is the only one of interest we room for five middle boxes it\u0027ll wrap around the last EM field is the last person the last middle box who identified so you can quickly hop down to updating the one that you\u0027ve got that we\u0027re putting this this is not gonna the packet length is not going to change the source is going to put out the whole thing is a no field and then every metal box along the way it\u0027s going to say this is who I am this is when I got this packet this is real data this is the real packets this is not a an active test this is hybrid measurement this is not a test packet I mean you could devise a test with it but this is real live actual data and so he\u0027ll just say this is when I got it and and of course you would not want to do this all the time we\u0027re envisioning you do this when you have a problem and then of course people say yes you have the problem and then you\u0027ve just exacerbated the problem by adding all this data and yeah okay I know I know but it\u0027s still I think could be super helpful so yeah any comments on this thing hi Sarah I\u0027m speaking as individual I had questions aren\u0027t so like PDM the scope and here is single administrative domain right so you could essentially you remember box identifiers can be assigned by configuration by Fiat or by some central controller correct PDM is not single administrative domain bTW PDM is the is is internet wide this could be single administrative domain I would it be as I said I\u0027ve already had people from ISPs say this would be very cool and they would like to have it so I would I would hope this is not single "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:54",
    "text": "administrative domain so middle box identifier needs to figure it\u0027s gonna be simple that\u0027s gonna be outside single minutes later the main middle box identifier needs to be bigger you\u0027re gonna need some way to do III almost kinda want to just say read the plus drafts and do that instead but you\u0027re gonna need yeah you need to be bigger you\u0027re gonna need some way to handle integrity protection and you\u0027re gonna need some way to like if it costs the administrative domain where you\u0027re not really sure who\u0027s gonna be messing with the stuff then you need to go a little bit more complicated than what\u0027s here I have another question just really clarifying I\u0027m gonna try and make this real quick so we can get to Ignacio why are there pockets serial numbers on each hop is that like a count of the number is that like a pocket counter of the number of packets but it\u0027s seen or no no it\u0027s kind of like you know the packet number it\u0027s like our packet sequence number what this tells us is how far this packet get for it got dropped essentially but it\u0027s the same for a real opera know every every hop keeps it keeps a packet sequence number like it goes up by one for every packet it\u0027s a it\u0027s a okay okay that make sense it\u0027s yeah and in combination with marking cuz if you got a block a packets no I think it\u0027s anyway anyway we yes yes yes yeah are just echoing some of the stuff that we\u0027ve had to deal with timestamp what kind of format are you gonna go use yeah I know I know this is yeah version 0 0 I\u0027ll be nice to go and get these things fleshed out yeah yeah yeah yeah no as I said we\u0027re putting this out and you know it\u0027s getting feelers getting feelers from everybody it cuz I think our first thing is do people think this is useful and then and then we\u0027ll continue work on it that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of where we are right now if people think it\u0027s useful we think it is but we want to do long you know validity testing yeah you can comment to me privately if you want to okay yeah but we\u0027re also real open to collaborating with you know Frank and and that\u0027s what then you know other people too and whatever any comments otherwise them will let some other people have a chance to speak okay thanks all right thank you so much yeah I think there\u0027s some comments it does sound interesting but we just need more fleshing out please say comments the list so um Ignacio we got you five minutes go ahead and pull it up so um here he comes good yeah if we if you could put because this is okay thank you well just this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:56",
    "text": "a proposition to get synchronizing internet clocks in secure way and who is needing which application measurements our our working group localization cryptic coins games and there are surely another applications next please well this is this chart represent more or less the road that you can get in different protocols and the idea is our protocol is the green one SiC you can get frequency synchronization in some kind of secure way next slide please well the idea is that it packet it sign it in a different way their role is around 20 microseconds we synchronize frequency and it\u0027s a client-server a simple software distribution but if there are symmetric part paths between server and client you can also do an absolute clock synchronization and this is related with the another draft that we we got here the other one and you can clone you you can get the code of the the idea in that link next slide please and this is the updates that we we got from the first to the second version new router is added through the gap we stress at the frequency objetive and we compare with the IQ related standards and we provide detailed information about security issues and also an example of some kind of limitation in with ntp in some rationals of the internet well this is all I don\u0027t know if I can get the question or not could you beat that all right no questions at the mic right now thank you yeah sure we have time for the next one all right Chanin just very quickly you have to which one do you want to give being man all right let\u0027s hear that this is the young leader model for Iran last time we presented this in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:59",
    "text": "London and we have several comments from Greg and the Rashaad and we make the for Iowa option profiles as features for flexibility we modified the ACL live reef to align waster is their latest ACL model and we add a demean configure container for a clear hierarchy NOAA also modified the security considerations into the ionic considerations here\u0027s the overview the Iowa madhuri is organized as a list of profiles and each profile associates one a flow with the corresponding Iowa information we use the filter to identify a flow and there are four sub profiles each of which relates to a one-hour mean capsulation types as defined in the Iowa Nevada draft and the Marco Island data types can be encapsulated into the same i-i\u0027m header and sub sub profiles including the pre-allocated the trace and profile the incremental tracing profile the proof proof of transit profile and edge to edge profile and for the the we imported this proof of trusted profile to actually from from this proof of transit document and there was a discussion in the Middle East whether to incorporate this profile directory into this era Miyamoto finally we discuss with Frank and we we decide not to do this we decide to live live it separately and independently and then next we welcome more comments and we also hope this can be adopted as one Google document as the Ahram data Java is already stable that\u0027s what all right thank you very much umm IOM folks that sound like a plan okay um so I mean yeah finally soft nurse yeah I do like that word given that I\u0027m co-authoring so I do think it\u0027s useful and it needs to happen and we need something configuration for IOM all right and well that\u0027s the game in town let me ask you another question would you be scared if the chair is imposed an experiment on your yang model by Fiat um we\u0027re looking into using github for Frank model development as opposed to the document stream for inside the working group I\u0027ve been asked by some of the net rod people if we can try that out I have no idea what it is I\u0027m gonna find out what the actual details are on Friday um so if that\u0027s if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:02",
    "text": "that\u0027s not scary to you then we would try that with this when we yeah right yeah okay so well yeah well we\u0027ll try and bring this in with the other gigantic pile of IOM documents sometime between now and we\u0027re gonna count but we\u0027re gonna count all the end caps is one document against the document cap but um because otherwise we\u0027d never be done right we have the phrase condition on the number of documents that work so yeah so um we\u0027re not gonna do the call for adoption now we\u0027ll do it with the rest of those we\u0027re gonna look into how we would manage the TN model with this new process that I don\u0027t know anything about other than github um and from there cool all right thank you very much that was IP p.m. we will well I won\u0027t Tommy we\u0027ll see you all in Bangkok and for the lightning talks that we did not get to apologies for that and if you want to send out any summary of that information to the list that would be appreciated as well and if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheets keep please come up and sign the blue sheets box P X close "
  }
]