[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:27",
    "text": "okay so we\u0027re gonna go ahead get started um and the blue sheets are out there please remember to sign it okay this is the note well you should have seen this many times before well no but you see this other places right what you will note it well read it if you haven\u0027t read it you should really read it okay so here\u0027s our agenda um people can bash the agenda we started bashing just the fact that the agenda was not there in an email but anyways um and we\u0027ll have just a few minutes to updates from area directors these are you know what I updated these this morning but anyways so we\u0027re gonna rearrange these a little bit because um Brian Rosen had travel difficulties so he\u0027s not here yet so we\u0027re gonna we\u0027ll leave that to the end if he\u0027s not here by the time we get ready transition to art we\u0027ll leave it to the end then and if he\u0027s still not here the chairs are run through slides okay and then we\u0027re gonna do the JSON contact we\u0027re gonna try and do remote um see how that goes again it\u0027s Monday morning first time and then when packaging and then we switch over to the art area um and we\u0027ll let the IDs talk we\u0027ll talk about boss new working groups and then we\u0027ve got on dursa stewing the the JSON canonicalization okay anybody have any comments on the agenda and next time I\u0027ll come pay or might not tell you when it\u0027s there okay okay dispatch okay here are deadlines and again we just work backwards from the main IETF draft deadline and coincidentally these are the exact same gates that align from 2016 as I took slides for 2016 and I didn\u0027t I just had to change the year yes these are Montreal device yeah I camp 1:05 yes Montreal it would like to give people the heads up right okay and then here is the link to the wiki this is where you can find further information on a regular basis okay working with deadlines again we have hashed some of this on the mailing list people did really well this time in terms of making deadlines which we appreciate um and again it\u0027s helpful to put dispatch in the draft name because it makes it a whole lot easier for me to do double checks and try and pull up the right drafts I did upload or point out that there are three specific working your documents associated with this that\u0027s in the meeting materials and as I as best as I could figure out so I don\u0027t guarantee it\u0027s all of them and there is Jeffrey and I we had the discussion on the list for people that bothered reading all of that and we\u0027re not sure that individuals can actually do replaces so if you\u0027re like changing the name of your individual draft whether or not you can can they do it when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:29",
    "text": "something okay this is the whole thing so when we were trying to figure it out the upload tool was blocked you couldn\u0027t go to pretend you were gonna upload something to see what it was that you could choose from the chairs and area directors they\u0027re going to be talking about how we can streamline this a little bit whether it\u0027s the tools thing or something okay yeah like said yeah lucky has volunteered to fix anyone\u0027s issues thank you I appreciate that okay and again a reminder the mailing list we do have I don\u0027t know why we say right there that\u0027s interesting I guess liked it anyways um cuz I is gone so the art discussion list is our data ATF dot org and then of course dispatch dispatch at IETF dot org and that\u0027s something you know people if you\u0027re looking for agenda time or do you think you have a topic that\u0027s ready to dispatch you we can dispatch before a meeting right for example the run charter we\u0027ve actually already reviewed in the working group think it\u0027s ready to go to IESE for approval sort of thing so you don\u0027t so i every time we get questions about what belongs in art and what belongs of dispatch and the answer to that is fuzzy but in general things that art discussions are for things where there is work that might be of interest to people and and you\u0027d like to see if people are interested in have some feedback and maybe dream up some support for it dispatches for work where we\u0027re actually talking about proposals to have the IETF do something and figuring out where we need to do that work etc I mean it\u0027s not just you all I\u0027m right there like confused as well I abused to that\u0027s the best I can figure out okay so we\u0027re gonna get started are depending you know I thought I uploaded things but again it\u0027s Monday morning okay so we\u0027re gonna do JSON contact first and I don\u0027t see oh so it\u0027s Jeffrey ready to do my packaging then okay excellent thank you okay I\u0027m sorry justjust you can come up here now just you\u0027re not gonna talk yet just don\u0027t say anything yet anyways okay so here\u0027s our box and other meanings the the VI mi I don\u0027t know how people pronounce that is be me Demi be me okay it\u0027s gonna meet Thursday other meetings you know for people that pay attention to the agenda there\u0027s an open space on Wednesday for people to have these side meetings so there\u0027s several of those the there is a meeting for the rum working group kind of a pre-meeting gather interested parties I want to do work on that and then there\u0027s W PAC web package is gonna have a side meeting and then though has various issues they\u0027re gonna discuss as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:29",
    "text": "well at Wednesday and there\u0027s a full link if you click on that again it\u0027s on a wiki of all the site meetings and there is still actually open space that people had topics they wanted to arrange meetings for okay new working group since IETF 103 not just in our area we put things might be of interest to people there\u0027s a gift working group in the gun area and then there is the rats working group in the security area okay sorry okay so we were going to give on the agenda we had a few minutes for the eighties to say some stuff early on because you notice that we don\u0027t have Murray and : up here anymore and we do want to thank him I want to thank them for being co-chairs for the past what three years for three years well so a long time so : has been my co-chair since he stepped down as an 18 right before that the original my original co-chair was bin Saleh and he became an 80 and then : step down that sekolah became a pattern there is a pattern so I just stay here all the time and other people come and go so yeah anyway so and then Ben is stepping down as ID and we have a new ad theory so Ben is joining me some my co-chair now so we\u0027ll see how long he lasts I seem to run through them okay that\u0027s exactly right okay um so so again we didn\u0027t want to thank Murray and : Murray was wonderful because Murray did the chair charts have a whole time but he was my coach here so that was lovely I appreciate that I haven\u0027t done anything he doesn\u0027t know he stole whatever yeah it has the old folks home okay anyways and so we did oh yeah call it the Iggy graveyard I\u0027m the groundskeeper or something like that I guess so yeah yeah okay so we did also want to thank Ben for his time as a tea and we do have our tradition in our area of making sure that you know they can recover from having been the aging and survive as my co-chair so well we\u0027re just giving you this this is a token it\u0027s not a very secure token well it is of our our appreciation and we decided that you really didn\u0027t want to have to consume multiple models before you went back you might want to but what we\u0027ll do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:30",
    "text": "is you\u0027ll get a delivery in Dallas of other gifts oh yes thank everyone very much here it is a this is a republic exclusive uh I believe it is probably a Czech whisky but it\u0027s in check so I can\u0027t read it [Laughter] thank everyone it is a Czech realm of extremely dubious quality we\u0027re not sure how it\u0027s fine sipping rums you should care for carefully some other things should be dispatched by dumping them down the sink we have no idea which that is you should just that dubious quality is a plus for rum this is Marie I don\u0027t want to get in the way of further business dispatch but I\u0027m wondering if this is why Barry became a Navy again because this gift cycle is never very finishes beer I think I might have finally finished the last one about a month ago really I think Roberts still working quite a generous gift so I also would very much appreciate the people who were thoughtful enough to say that the rest will be delivered in Dallas and not maybe try to carry it home in my luggage it was my idea you know what we\u0027re thinking people I\u0027d like to thank our note takers that\u0027s Pete and Jean and our Jeffers grave it was matched alright okay Jeffrey you are now up yeah interesting you know it\u0027s like when a program about so much what it say I get a paradise way about you I\u0027m sorry should I tell you to advance no okay I\u0027m Jef Raskin this is Co hey why don\u0027t we work on chromium on web packaging and we were asked to come here a second time we presented in I think ITF 99 here to to dispatch the first time we think we\u0027re going to be ready for a ball for next next meeting but we want to get the the feel of the room for kind of where where do we actually standardize this so to avoid assuming that that everyone knows what we\u0027ve been doing I wanted to present kind of what web packaging is and describe where we are so why do we want to do this we want to allow people to load websites peer-to-peer instead of over there perhaps a very expensive or only on part of the month internet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:32",
    "text": "connection this has some some benefits in opposing censorship and surveillance that we want to incorporate in the design we\u0027d like to fix amp raise your hand if you if you dislike Google amp and I thought it would be a bunch of people so we\u0027d like to would like to let let am documents have their real URLs and not something starting with Google calm and we want to allow non amp formats to have the same kind of UI benefits that that currently only amp can get and so the plans for what packaging achieve both of those the the web publications group is looking at this possibly just the unsigned version for kind of grouping together books or other publications bundles also let you optimize the transfer of small resources and possibly signed exchanges let let\u0027s see DNS optimized cross-origin resources like send them over the same connection we\u0027re still figuring out whether that works in a private way we also want to allow third parties to say yes this is website is is good on some axis you can imagine doing some static analysis over it and having your your client trusted a little more if someone you trust says that it\u0027s it\u0027s beneficial or you can you can do buy no transparency with this so so far we\u0027ve had discussions at ITF 99 and 101 about kind of how to do this in a secure way based on your feedback we split signed exchanges from bundles exchanges to explain that that distinction scientist changes have a signature on a single HTTP request/response pair you get cross-origin trust in them based on a certificate like TLS but not actually usable for TLS it has a separate extension they may expire after about a week to avoid long-lived XSS exploits and you can update the signature so that after that expiration you can make a cheap request to to say yes this thing is still good instead of having to transfer the whole thing again bundle the changes give you kind of a zip like format of many request response pairs each one might be signed or not and the format is streamable and random access so you can you can do it efficiently both both over the network and on disk so we flushed out the signed exchange specification we\u0027ve gotten a bunch of investment in signed exchanges from people using amp for example we\u0027ve got this list of websites that are publishing signed exchanges or working on publishing signed exchanges to to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:33",
    "text": "the the benefits of getting the right urls I think the Washington Post is especially excited about about having their content under their URL and not not the Google com URL didja cert is issuing the certificates you need CloudFlare is building support for for generating sign exchanges from from domains that they that they host or proxy and chrome 73 is shipping a version of signed exchanges now the fact that we\u0027re shipping it makes a bunch of people nervous because often when you ship something it gets locked in stone we\u0027ve we\u0027ve designed so that this will not be locked in stone there\u0027s a I we put the URL of the site exchange at a fixed location in the format so that when we upgrade formats and drop support for the old ones if people are still serving the old format you get a redirect instead of just a broken site so we think that will let us move on to a more a more standard format as as we develop the standard we\u0027ve got a bunch of documents defining this whole system so the first the first one is the is the ITF side specification of the format and then the second one describes particular checkpoints so right now we\u0027re we\u0027re working on on publishing the zero three checkpoint which defines what chrome ships and what the the sites that I mentioned are generating and that should let everyone interoperate while we work on the next version we have a ycg repository and specification that define how this all interacts interacts with web browsers so how you how you fetch them how a browser loads it and then we have a preliminary specification for bundles and an overview of all the use cases that were that we\u0027re trying to achieve so next we need to get get feedback from these deployments and incorporate that into specifications we need to make sure that we\u0027re not completely breaking the security of the web and improve any points that that aren\u0027t quite right we need to specify and implement bundles mark Nottingham and the w3c tag or organizing a workshop sometime between now and the next ITF I the last time I heard mark might correct me yes daya be not not just mark to get feedback from from publishers see what see what they think what their concerns are and we like to hand ownership of the documents to standards bodies right now these are things that I can change unilaterally or Google can change unilaterally and that\u0027s a bad idea we want we want you all to own the the kind of the definitions we want to change them by consensus not just because I woke up on the wrong side of the bed one day and so that questions I believe for this room are how do we put this on the standards track should we create an IETF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:35",
    "text": "W working group the scheduled side meeting on Wednesday assuming that if this group decides to go that direction we\u0027ll probably start working on on the Charter and AB off for the next the next meeting part of it might go to an HP working group if that\u0027s where you all want it we we believe part belongs in the w3c or what WG to integrate with the fetch spec but it\u0027s it\u0027s possible that that you\u0027d say the IETF doesn\u0027t care about this at all and everything should it should go through the w3c what WG track so here here are some links that you can follow when you when you look up the slides online and Kohan I are here to answer questions and and participate in the discussion okay Eric Rowland was off is on sort of oh okay well what\u0027s pretty close as it was um I think I am um thanks for betting okay well maybe that thanks for presenting this um um I mean first things first um I mean this is pretty clearly a major architectural changes inside of the web so there\u0027s no possible way this can like not be coded some kind of off I have a number of concerns with actionable size structure so I don\u0027t this use a little surface than here any boss discussion probably should talk start with use cases not with like what how do we standardize this particular technology I mean we have that document of use cases I appreciate that but there seems you know plus it is I\u0027m sure that this topic is this roster not what you said is the answer of these use cases or that all those use cases it matter and neither of those things obviously true um so we should always start with that um because one thing that happens when you look at the use cases may be in a very technical solution if you think some of these cases are not good use cases so we can always deal with that when we get to the boss but that\u0027s probably where things I\u0027ll just start you you have been welcome to discuss the use cases for over a year yes I think we had well if you really wanted this right now outstanding outstanding the problems with amp are not exclusively included with the are not exclusively about URL substitution problems are they in have a number of good system effects that are not that are in fact made worse I suppose I\u0027m not better so um and in particular the it\u0027s not clear that it is not clear the use cases necessarily have to involve loading the entire target web page from the front from the referring site the question is how to increase performance of that not to load the entire page "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:36",
    "text": "under this goggle desire for the Monday its aim is important use cases um similarly it\u0027s not all clear to me these cases involve offline to online transition are actually important um so um you know I mean I mean I don\u0027t really want to go to extremes you know but I think I took a few a lot of feedback from these cases and they were like and largely response I got was we think these cases are important so go pound sand so um like I\u0027m not really sure what you think I had like an obligation to go back and forth with you for like the year on this topic so after are you gonna be at their meeting there on Wednesday no I went packaging yeah unfortunately no because they because do the clever scheduling an idea it\u0027s been double go which I also have to be I think Martin will be there so so we have three meet we have we have three meetings you covered by Martin to myself I\u0027ll schedule the same time it\u0027s really great but also they come to any bother hi Wendy Seltzer w3c yes as you mentioned w3c is interested in use cases and which you think that there\u0027s a lot of distance between use cases and solutions and gathering they that the people who need to cut packaging solutions together to to figure out where they\u0027re their needs might converge and what the solutions look like and what piece of the solution this might be seems to be an area where we also wanted to help be part of the the forum for discussion so thanks for bringing ideas martin up you know just anna markdown IAM uh so i i think we need a buff to get this conversation into a more normative regular than you so we can make some decisions or at least you know no one can say well i didn\u0027t come that because that was just your thing or whatever i do my hearing actor and then a little bit of windy this criticism or this observation that there are lots of different use cases on the table here potentially and from what i\u0027ve heard not only from them but from other folks I\u0027ve talked to is if I wanted to meet those use cases what I come up with to do that might not necessarily look like when packaging and so that\u0027s I think what we probably need to dig into as a community more than anything I think the buff is a perfectly good way to do that I think the workshop we\u0027re gonna hold is another way to get some information about that my question for you Jeffrey is if the community comes to a place where we agree that these use cases or some subset of more important to address but that the solution for whatever reason "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:37",
    "text": "and of course the reason needs to be reasonable it does not look like web packaging you know are you still on board for that level of change I believe so the the big question in my mind is can we convince the amp team to switch over to the new thing and and if if they wind up not switching then their ecosystem effects are still there and we still don\u0027t have a standard answer for them but if we find something that that is totally different from this and still satisfies the use cases then great okay well I\u0027m very aware that you put a frankly tremendous amount of effort you and your team have put a tremendous amount of effort into web packaging and that\u0027s appreciated the amount of detail the amount of consultation you go into everything but just because you put the work in doesn\u0027t mean that it gets doctored that so it all works absolutely hello come on James um given the sort of complicated sort of assess I don\u0027t quite understand the interaction speech but of how you might see this going forward between IT FWC what working group um can you talk to that a little bit more and what you expect out of the IETF versus just not bring into the ITF at all like what like what do you expect to get out of the ITF on this in the most positive picture right so I believe that that the folks here that we need to take into account the the knowledge here of the security guarantees of the internet kind of the meaning of the HTTP scheme they like all of the interactions with TLS there\u0027s there\u0027s a lot of expertise here that we need to use and and so the the question is really like how do we how do we get that into the right like into the structure and how do we incorporate all of that the the split that I currently have is that the ITF side documents define the format and the what WG or w3c side define how its how it\u0027s loaded kind of the algorithms for loading it so that\u0027s that\u0027s what I currently expect the the specifications to look like but but that\u0027s gonna be totally up to kind of the working groups that that own it the w3c or what WG split is is often contentious right now we\u0027re in the YC G which is formally part of the w3c but like fetch is in the what WG and so I\u0027m hoping to let that side kind of are you out exactly how that split works seperti right close enough to actually be heard it shocks you it\u0027s a very maybe we should introduce more generally but I came to talk about two things one I agree with some of the previous speakers that if off as the next half makes sense and I agree with Cullen that it would be useful to know whether it is a task for the boss to work out where the split is or they\u0027re working out where the split is occurs before the bomb so that the Charter the baath discusses is already specific "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:39",
    "text": "about which work is coming to the EIT F and I would suggest that that would be a productive use of the site meeting and the discussions before the Bob to kind of get that level of specificity about what the Box task is going to be done as early as possible the other thing I wanted to go back to was the use cases thing and that is the use case I most care about here is the anti-censorship use case it\u0027s up to them personally care about a great deal and I\u0027ve talked to a number of people who do peer-to-peer networking in mesh based networks who would be very interested in using something like this word available in common applications because what they\u0027re trying not to do is to have formats and methods that are in applications which identify the user as somebody who is interested in the anti-censorship because that\u0027s a big red flag that waves very brightly in the face of some of the people who needed to identify people who want to avoid censorship so I have a really strong hope that what comes out of the Bob it\u0027s usable for that and is adoptable by a broad swath of browsers and HTTP based mobile frameworks because I think like many other anti censorship techniques of the broader the community that\u0027s actually using it the less it becomes a signal of interest and I think that\u0027s very important for that use case here thank you it\u0027s a mom Thompson thanks for doing this one thing that concerns me and maybe you weren\u0027t thinking about when you said it but one thing that really concerned me here was that you said um maybe the amp team want take that or or something along those lines one of the things that I think Ted point is the question of who\u0027s going to implement this is very relevant when we talk about evolve and I would encourage you to make sure that those important customers of this and ones that we consider really important for this actually to turn on and participate in this not not just show up for the bath and go grab a rod that doesn\u0027t work on I would encourage you to see actually come and participate now that doesn\u0027t necessarily mean driving it or anything but being there being present they have right their input process is critical to this and if this is gonna work then the amp team has to actually be involved and I would also say that that this is not the only example of this this there\u0027s other people doing very similar sort of things and I don\u0027t know how much reached out those have you reached out to say the Apple news folks or any of those officers right we have not talked to the Apple news or I think Facebook news teams "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:39",
    "text": "I think we\u0027ve assumed that they like their wall garden but that might have been a wrong assumption exactly you\u0027d be surprised welcome people that the the amp team has been talking to us but is not physically here are you suggesting that we kind of grab grab and encourage them to physically come to the IETF meetings ideally yes but you know in all these situations we respect the fact that there\u0027s a lot what happens in the IDF that may not be relevant to these people and traveling is expensive and time-consuming and difficult and even this participation would would be it\u0027s not a huge imposition at that point that would be a lot more the amp team is aware of this and I may or may not take whatever we do alright my my point with they may not take it is if if the design changes and loses a use case that\u0027s important to them yes in York working for the internet society but not speaking for them and we do need a ball because I think we do need to be clear on the use cases because some of the use cases I have as a publisher of websites are different than some of the other ones that you\u0027re having in that and to Martin\u0027s point I\u0027m also very much interested in deployability in my use case is fairly simple in some cases I want something that allows me to do mobile caching and allowing our web sites to be deployed into low bandwidth environments in weight packaged and bundled in ways that is standard and it\u0027s not Google amp or Facebook it\u0027s art Facebook it\u0027s an articles or Apple news whatever else so I would say to the point as it looks at if there is sort of off it would be very useful to have some buy-in or some at least from some of those different parties to say if this is something that comes up we will actually use it because before a lot of us invest time energy and money and coming up with yet another packaging format or something it would be good to know that there is actually interest in doing something with this rather than discrediting something that\u0027s not being used over scroll again associate can sharpen more this point a little bit I saw a lot of use cases listed here my understanding is most employment was the actual deployment of the technology is that correct most of the current adoption is at PS right so um I see a real case scenario here which is that um discus Mart ITF gets adopted we\u0027re like remotely negotiating with amp people for you and then they decide out to play it and now we are senility with nobody wanted um and and point which has no other employers and ample use that\u0027s bad so like I think I want to start more Martin said if like the eight people can\u0027t be bothered to show up to this like I just understand why she Turner\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:39",
    "text": "yeah I should be able to get them remotely I I think the time zones work for this meeting and then we can we can see if they come physically for the next one yeah III mean if you want us to take I just took I know nothing about this technology don\u0027t care but I\u0027m just going to tell you how idea is going to react to that if a group of people that is going to totally change the architecture of their fundamental product doesn\u0027t want to show up to the meeting to discuss it people are unlikely to take it very seriously that the odds that they will even even if they send to the lesson email we\u0027re definitely 100% implementing that it\u0027s going to be met with a major credibility gap if they\u0027re not showing up in person I will I will give them the minutes of this meeting and saying you should come thank you okay this is great I think this was good discussion people interested parties if you can understand the collision should go to the meeting yeah somebody really for air Berger ok Collins so we have to show up in person to participate in idea yes to be effective that\u0027s his personal opinion he\u0027s not sitting at the front of the room anymore just a quick recap for the minutes I think what I heard was that I bought with a good idea we need to discuss use cases first before the solution and that we need to make sure that the people who are really going to implement and use this are engaged in that process so if the minutes can make sure we capture that part all of it okay that we think about is a good idea we think that we need to focus on what are the right use cases before we worry too much about the solution and we need to make sure that the people who are going to really implement and use this are engaged in the process all right okay so it looks like Robert is on the remote now so if we can go ahead and move to that topic right why don\u0027t you well he can come up right so Robert to do the talking needs to push the button so that he wants to speak and I\u0027ll push the red button and give him the floor yeah right and then you can facilitate if we need the shares apologize in advance for being slackers and not properly setting this up at the remote presentation so let\u0027s see what happens they all say the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:01",
    "text": "same at the top of the right okay okay excellent Roberts I can push tell us where you wanted that slides please I know can you hear me yes yes thanks unfortunately I can\u0027t in practice in person though thanks for giving me a proper cue I\u0027d like to shortly talk about Chase Vantage which is individual draft special that I\u0027ve sent to dispatch about three four weeks ago these next slide hide the toys so they go oh sorry Robert the people that it\u0027s actually very loud I\u0027m somewhere go ahead and people just have to I lower my voice as well so are we on night number of title codes yes yes we are so so the goals of this effort are basically to provide standardized data model for contact and group information that should be an advancement or enhancement of vCard we are aiming at providing a JSON based format we are not necessarily tied to to the exact data format it\u0027s more to take the model we are interested in this is coming mainly from the observation that the that the vCard model in one way is very much used in the industry on the other hand in the last years a couple of proprietary formats based and chasten or or other data formats have been showing up due to the difficulties and and inked-up abilities that have arisen from using b card for exchange of conflict information and we would very much like serious effort into coming up with with a standardized format that that we can further follow on the goals of these are two in one way be less ambiguous than p-card which is has three different versions in in practice we would like to narrow down the or or remove the pitfalls arising from these different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "formats so it should be simple to process and it should be extendable in a way that that different vendors or different use cases can still build on a on a core format or data model that\u0027s shared by by hopefully the majority of implementations doing that we we intend to start from the current vCard semantics but we explicitly do not require or do not aim to be a hundred percent backward compatible with vCard we have seen other efforts in the past for example X card which is translating vCard into X XML there is also an effort if I recall correctly which represented me card information in chases but again was very much tied to the 2d semantics of V coordinates and it\u0027s wire format which made it kind of difficult to process so next slide please so the what we have done so far is that I\u0027ve written up an individual draft submission based on the proprietary format that we are using at fast mail this is really meant to be only a basis of discussion it\u0027s based on our very early chainet draft that we wrote up for four contacts and we are expecting and appreciating significant changes if if if if more people are jumping on this so we already have seen on this patch interest by one other party and I expect or hope there will be more so very much next step would be to instigate more interesting and hopefully find adoption by our crew I\u0027m not sure if calyx is the right when I understand it would need to reach harder so that would so we are open for anyone who is interested in working with this on this topic it\u0027s my presentation thank you okay thank you yeah so we have a few people lined up at the queue itself discussion here so so as a as a cat calyx culture I think we well there is a current trying to to have ulti stuff new mapping and I think it\u0027s a it\u0027s good good not to let it be called aside this change so I would be in favor to have that work down were this work is to be done I\u0027m we used to have a lot of different groups that seems not too good my that\u0027s an ad so maybe I would be happy to have all this and a perfect for one written group being can you get close to the microphone because I don\u0027t know proper "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:01",
    "text": "can hear okay so we used to have very different working groups right so we we used to have a lot of different working groups working on the v-cards time zone calyx and i would be in favor of merging oldest working group into one so but that\u0027s a more VAD so that\u0027s why I think Alex might be a good place for Alex okay so I\u0027m gonna just see Roberts backing the thing out just see if he has a response there Robert great so my initial response would be that would be very great I think mostly the main people in time zones calendaring and contacts are are are sharing their interests and working on on these topics in parallel so I think it would be very good to have a shared workgroup fluence color choice ah I could see that argument I was actually gonna argue Slyke the other way I like this work I hope it moves forward somehow I was actually going to argue exactly the opposite is that what happens we always get that group of people who are then they don\u0027t have any interaction with people who work primarily on collaboration and messaging which also uses all this technology so I would lean towards and also the stuff gets bit put behind all the other deliverables of the working group so I would argue for a very small focused working group just to do this would be sort of my mind leaning but I\u0027d be glad to see it this is Barry Lee but I leaned toward what Cohen is saying I think if we put it in a visiting working group jameth is a better match than calyx but I would also kind of lean toward a separate working group for this I also want to Kiko back to the gold slide for a second the start from vCard but no direct mapping I would like to push back a little bit I agree that you you don\u0027t want to limit yourself to what you could do with I agree that you don\u0027t want to limit yourself to what can\u0027t what you can do that requires direct mapping but history tells us that the card versions in particular get ossified and it\u0027s difficult to get people to change their v card implementations to the more modern ones so I would like you to as you develop this keep as much mapping as possible in there to allow it to be ported to older versions for implementations that haven\u0027t been updated yes so it\u0027s definitely they plan to keep as much backward compatibility as possible exactly for the same reasons "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "it\u0027s just that we do not explicitly stated we are that we must be a hundred percent competitive but it\u0027s of course they plan to reduce as much to allow reusing as much as data hi I\u0027m Jim Fenton I\u0027ve got a question maybe in a little bit different direction then were to organize this but I guess my question is do we have I have a sense that vCard is something that people don\u0027t love but it\u0027s going to because of all of the ways that they\u0027re used in end-user implementations it\u0027s going to be very hard to get people to change just as it is to get hard to get people to change between vCard versions and this is this would potentially be a bigger change so I\u0027m wondering if you have some sense that this will be adopted by by users it it it seems like a very very difficult sort of ossified standard that I\u0027m not this would be nice but I\u0027m not sure it would be used well we are we are very very early stage with this project of course there is the risk that we do not see the necessary adoption or interest for this coming up from personally I mean I think it it really generated interest but I agree it\u0027s it\u0027s an experiment this at this stage yeah this is parrot leave the topic back in responding to that history has shown us with vCard that when we update vCard versions new implementations implement the new versions and I think this would there be no difference here I would expect new implementations to go in this direction but we\u0027ve also seen that old implementations are just never update yeah one more thing is that I\u0027m also not so sure about I mean we card obviously is used for exchange of contact information but it\u0027s not necessarily ah City storage format so while I\u0027m not too sure if it will really if we really see that much difficulties into adopting a new format but that\u0027s as I said it\u0027s just guessing it monitor Chris Newman I wanted to respond also the Jim oh it I have to okay there we go okay so the reason I think this has potential to deploy is I think the change in sort of network API model towards the HTTP JSON "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:02",
    "text": "model is it\u0027s one that I think it\u0027s more likely to stick than any of the previous trends like the XML protocols now I could be wrong about that but yo that creates an opportunity to to get address books yo in an API in in an API framework where they\u0027ll actually be used more and integrated more effectively with other protocols and so that\u0027s why I think you know I think the combination of J map and this work creates a lot of potential for integration with other applications and that\u0027s why I support this work okay berry we have abyzou the ABS are gonna chat okay did anybody else have any more comments before we try and wrap this up and decide going forward Aleksey to do so what I\u0027ve heard is there is some interest and it\u0027s not clear whether this is going to be suggestion whether it\u0027s go to collects J map or in your working groups that\u0027s to be decided but I think there is still a question of how many people are interested in implementing and like for example a robot you mentioned that there are API is popping up that are trying to map regard to JSON so I think yes I think as well you know sort of it\u0027s another input buoyant and talking to people about this so Lexi would you like us to ask the room who would like to implement this or something like it maybe I\u0027m not I\u0027m not intelligent have the right people in world the way we can see they\u0027re right they know hands doesn\u0027t mean anything but lots of hands might need something so yeah sure if you were here and you think this is something you would likely implement or something like this or some solution in this space you would like to implement please put your hand up I see three or actually that\u0027s more than I expected so [Music] : count for two oh it does come to do John Peterson yeah so I mean like I know for a project we\u0027re working on in a working group we\u0027re kind of shopping for a way to do be card with JSON and there is an existing are see that his standards track that describes had to do that and it\u0027s okay and like if this is better than we might do this instead "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "what are you saying is that somebody might he has a use case where he might use this sure yeah we\u0027re we\u0027re looking it like JSON versions of e card we\u0027re like okay there is an existing standards track thing for this right for like Jake zombie carp and if this is like a better ER I mean I was just looking at the draft it\u0027s kind of a sketch it\u0027s not like I can tell from looking at the draft if you know this is gonna turn out to be better then or is it 77095 but yeah no no it doesn\u0027t mean anything you asked if there are people interested doing something in this space that you you cast a pre white net so I\u0027m just gonna have to say yes I raise my hand but I clarified there there are applications for doing B card with JSON and like if this turns out to be better than our existing standards track RFC to do so then like well sure we use s so I think the sense is it\u0027s probably worth putting a little bit more work in this for people to discuss and provide additional feedback and then we could see how firm the problems my feeling is that yeah we need to do a bit more offline discussion probably the drop D to be updated it\u0027s possible we might have to reduce patch it great we can discuss on wrist and we do not have to wait to Montreal to reduce patch something great okay so I haven\u0027t seen Brian rose and entered the room unless I missed him okay so now we\u0027re going to go on ders did you have something I there was a talk at last night\u0027s about RFC by fellow to the first time I T fr Michael tune them right so Jesse come you know Michael you here okay he was talking about a proposal called braid for doing state synchronization over HTTP seems like it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good fit for this community I know that he can give his talk in three minutes and thirty seconds which is amazing because it\u0027s twenty slides but it was pretty good so I thought if you\u0027re doing agenda bashment for today you might Adam but since he\u0027s not here I think he\u0027s here for the week and so might be worth trying to get him on here your other session because it\u0027s called braid VRA ID you can see the abstract and the slides on the heart of RFC materials I know a show hands folks in the room who saw it hey have you folks uh folks who think that it would be a fit for presenting in this room I mean maybe you got everything out of the first alright so maybe I\u0027m wrong but I thought I\u0027d just let you know meet you oh I thought those the second session oh okay I\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:05",
    "text": "see if I\u0027m raising my an email and maybe at that time at the end I was any other business ok condors okay yes yes okay I\u0027m going to talk a little bit about Jason canonicalization I start with rational motivation behind this as you know there is something called yo C which is very popular JSON web signatures standards have been very successful they are based on the idea that in order to secure a signature or a data rather you have to abase encrypted base64 encrypted and that is fine particularly for the applications that sort of grew up with jbs like ORF and open ID but for information centric systems like the one I working with it didn\u0027t fit so well I was involved in a bank project where we had signed messages for layers of sign messages and for that it means to have base64 encoding on each of these layers it would make documentation debugging etc rather horrible so therefore I started to look on that possibility of making a canonicalized version of JSON which would be similar to what we had in in XML however I didn\u0027t want to bring all the complexities of XML into the Asian world that would be counterproductive so the question here is it possible to do this in a reasonable way canalization can be done in slightly different ways one is to do it completely on the text level I dropped that idea because that means essentially that you have two entirely different horses first you parse your message with the standard parser and then you take the same message and feed it to a can organizer that fits very bad with the existing tool chain the idea was to make it possible to integrate into existing tools so the proposal that is exist as a draft now is not only a design of mine it is actually design of several people that have brought good ideas and it starts with characterization of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "native JSON elements you can see from this example what you get is that you order properties remove white space normalize numbers and also make strings escape have the same escaping and that\u0027s necessary to be to be able to do signatures there is a limitation of the proposal and that is that the number jason number must fit into an ITV 7-5 for double precision that doesn\u0027t mean that your applications need to be limited but for the chemical ization you need now some people think that colocalization means that you have a completely unique format and that is a possibility unfortunately since Jason is very limited type wise people stuff things into strings and in order to create a completely canonical form you would have to expand the springs the the embedded data types and that is something which is doable but we excluded that and we settled on the team settled on creating a hash evaluation that means that to compare different runs for instance it\u0027s not a part of the use cases it\u0027s rather creating hash versions of data that is interesting in order to do this there is a constraint that you must know about and that is that if you parse a string a data represents the string it doesn\u0027t matter if it\u0027s just text or an embedded data type it must be serialized serialized as a string otherwise it will fail so this is essentially what this is about and I\u0027m saying that what this is is a started as a research project to see if it is actually possible to do chemical ionization of json and it is and we have identified let\u0027s say the quirks the things that you must be aware of in order to use it for some people it works perfect for some people it won\u0027t be a good choice and it can continue it will continue or with solutions that will expand even signature containers because if you have a can go back here to the first here you see a signature on the third line a JVs detached signature if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:07",
    "text": "you actually have chemical ization you can even make the signature container in clear because it can use the same system and that means you can see algorithms public keys etc which is pretty nice that is really everything I have to say except that I am here to see if there any interest in running this as an ITF project Richard Barnes just to be clear this is on the agenda for SEC dispatch as have transit I think hope to be doing the actual dispatching of this it will be the same presentation insect expert yes yep yep Carson Bowman that there are three things I\u0027m will be trying to say that see we\u0027ll get them all together so the first thing is what this is he it is a deterministic mapping from a data model object through serialization yes and the problem we had with Jason is that the originator of jason has steadfastly refused to define the data model so what we actually have done is we did a little part of that which is called I Jason yes so this is kind of half of the way going toward defined data model Jason yes whatever this book turns out to be it\u0027s going to define a data model that kind of might be the data modification or something from we don\u0027t know it means on ideation actually right just trying to say this cannot be done without you training the Jason data model at least as it applies through this yes I think that\u0027s a good thing to do number one number two there are some details of the the current deterministic mapping that you proposed okay that I don\u0027t like but I think that\u0027s not relevant from this discussion okay so I wouldn\u0027t put in utf-16 dependencies in there and things like that but that\u0027s separate US huh yes sir discussion what\u0027s the use case okay so I have a guy sitting beside me yesterday the hackathon who was using that language talking about his tools always putting on different data when he was running tests so he cannot compare the data between different permutations that\u0027s a very good use case that\u0027s what I would like to have this form comparing output data well that\u0027s actually outside of of the scope for this because data in since "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:07",
    "text": "this thing putting data objects inside of string makes its it creates it for that you need another specification where you canonical eyes the embedded data types that means that the canonical eyes must know what data types are embedded in strings and that would be a deterministic mapping from an application data model to recent data model yes that is obvious as a previous discussion is shown outside the scope of this world yes it is good that we have recognized that a specific application may want to go ahead and define a later model its application data model and be a deterministic mapping for Jason do you have any particular application you\u0027re thinking of because I don\u0027t know too much about that well we have tons of applications in the constraint space that has descriptive metadata in the form of Jason so we are interested in that but it\u0027s okay so once we have this defined Jason data model level we can write educational standards that not only define the application data model but also say how exactly this is mapped into the place and data model and we are solving this the problem you had on the previous slide I said separately so I think this is a good thing to have and I have at least one use case now I would like to add but it\u0027s mainly for sake this bitch I don\u0027t like the idea of embedded signatures so yeah but wiki will discuss that later on actually it\u0027s may be a good idea to look at the use cases they\u0027re a little bit wider view than just looking at the embedded signature case that you have okay I will be here on truth thirsty you can grab me anytime we can discuss matthew miller for what this is defining it it\u0027s it\u0027s probably okay I like Carsten I I mean it would be good to have a better understanding of what what are the use cases were trying to cover here awesome it\u0027s like hearts that said I mean one in my experience the very simple data types in JSON get you only so far and it is not as far as most applications need to go things like sets more complex data types it gets it gets really complicated this might be a starting point or an application and then profile further I\u0027m still not sure myself but these these are important considerations need to go into canonicalization that can mess things up sure Eric rajala um so trying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:08",
    "text": "to wrap my head around the province state so when we designed Jose and then I guess some seaboard all\u0027s on this theory we splitted canonicalization because experience been in all previous short all presidential from economical ization had been debacles and not just xml teasing um and and so and so we explicitly decided that um there wrapping was better there was i think some thought that sharp containment between search meaning the wrapper and the and the thing being signed um was good um though I think that wasn\u0027t a she particularly well so it seems to me that you want to backtrack on both those decisions which may or may not be a good idea it could certainly have been wrong but I guess I\u0027m trying to understand what the problem statement with those designs is and as far as I can tell it comes down to you don\u0027t think it\u0027s legible it comes food well you don\u0027t think it\u0027s legible to have multiple levels of wrapping and basically for encoding some other actual problem the idea is keeping Jason as Jason rather than wrapping it in b64 that this is the simplest explanation what was going like that because it doesn\u0027t make sense to if it\u0027s not necessary to basics before the idea was is it actually necessary and I found out it is not necessary if you put some constraints on your Jason it will work fine and you can keep your Jason objects in Jason and you can embed it makes the messages more clear with Jas you have the messages embedded in signature containers with this system you rather have messages that are signed that\u0027s sort of the opposite and it for people that are interested in information based system like me where the signature is just an add-on or it\u0027s of course important but the message is the most important part of that that\u0027s the core I am working with those payment systems and these guys they\u0027re there they are more concerned about the actual messages well I don\u0027t not sure I want the name whereas actual messages because the signatures are important they\u0027re calm but I guess I\u0027m still understanding like not necessary is not usually the reason we design like an entirely new specification so what is wrong with the thing there\u0027s nothing wrong it works it\u0027s just not so readable okay so that\u0027s like just to recap it seems to me your objection is you don\u0027t think the current thing is legible okay yes yes expected I just wanted to agree with Carsten that terminus sorry this is Jeffrey asking wanted to agree with Carsten that a deterministic serialization is useful and doing it doing it at the JSON level "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:11",
    "text": "it\u0027s a prerequisite for doing it at the protocol level so that that\u0027s a a good use case to keep in mind yes that cost Norman it would maybe just like to add that specific basics you for problem of course also comes up in other environments and that\u0027s one of the things that SIBO actually solves so for me it\u0027s not so much a problem of other people that might be but again I would really like to discuss the deterministic civilization part here because that that\u0027s the thing and whether that\u0027s useful for security or not I actually don\u0027t care because I want it for the other users I see it\u0027s technically possible to do you have to define a serialization for each embedded data type then that is what\u0027s needed and it\u0027s a possibility and it could be standardized if it will be adopted that\u0027s another thing sure so I think it\u0027s important to sharpen this question about whether it\u0027s security or not because the use cases are different and in particular your two respects in one respect having like a deterministic serialization for protocol purposes as you suggest requires that a much deeper relationship with the inner content as opposed to just like this is a string that happens to have semantics rerender edge and um and the second is that if we screw it up like it doesn\u0027t anything up for non security purposes maybe it doesn\u0027t matter so much but if you screw up for security purpose is actually quite bad so um I think like figuring exactly we\u0027re going to accomplish probably like actually the lower part that\u0027s women so let me clarify that you cannot stand the dyes standard mapping from an application data model to a JSON data model without also standardizing the equivalence relationship the application has and this kind of rules out doing unless you are embedded in the application I mean you are standardizing the application when you are standardizing the equivalence relationship so this is no longer that JSON is true it is really an application issue so we really have to start from the JSON data model and get all that about application data so somebody has to take care of doing deterministic encoding of application data into the JSON data model and then this takes off and does the deterministic encoding of the JSON data model into adjacent street I see this what you\u0027re saying is a superset of this because this is sort of a lower form of canonicalization that enables you to hash json messages while you\u0027re talking about a full canonicalization that requires definition of each of embedded data types they exact serialization people said to me why not go for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:13",
    "text": "seaboard you know you don\u0027t have this problem they see seaboard as the solution and forget about Jason and I that is a possibility yes this is an overlay and that this one I\u0027m focusing right yes they don\u0027t exclude each other it\u0027s just so for let\u0027s say absolutely I was just gonna ask her if we defined a canonicalization fallout with no expectation of security do you really believe that it would never be used in in the security sensitive context yeah okay the answer was not for the record well yeah we could totally put a big warning on it but then the new-fallen would allow us to put that in flashing right blink tag yeah I will be the first person ignoring that warning but not the last selling things I just gonna say I mean you know having things in him at the point of JSON has to put things in human readable form right this is clearly about making it in human readable form right and there are some times where that\u0027s useless and there\u0027s sometimes was advantageous of it like for example some of our own specs and IETF that put this in this have it wrong for years and no one noticed because the you couldn\u0027t catch it on casual explanation I\u0027m thinking of some of the stir token signatures we\u0027re just wrong we would have noticed we could if they weren\u0027t base64-encoded so I\u0027m not saying that that\u0027s a trait I\u0027m not arguing with the security guys that this would be better or worse I\u0027m just saying we have blown this mistake on the other side but I mean the I guess this is probably working on discussion insects dispatch as well but a clear separation between the container and the contained is actually critically important this is why like for instance we\u0027ve moved to AE algorithms in Macross that across across the IETF to precisely avoid people being able to work on the data without before the CRO traffic transporters that verify it\u0027s okay so so designing a system that makes it easy to ignore occurred you have to transform and undesirable not desirable so this pew Resnick and two efforts point right there this is a trade-off so one of the things that happens when you encode the whole bucket and is that applications implementers take that whole thing and pass it off to the library code for the security stuff and get out whatever comes out and there are times where that is exceedingly inconvenient for instance the the general example in IMAP is I can\u0027t do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:16",
    "text": "crap without taking the whole s/mime thing and hand it off to someone I cannot manipulate any of the internal bits and give the user experience I want to give even if I\u0027m going to go and do all of the security stuff I\u0027ve got to download all this crap onto a device that maybe is too small to do that so there are advantages in having all of the well I and I understand that the point is you shouldn\u0027t do that says the security person and I get that but if I\u0027m supposed to trust where the implementer I can at least present the user experience of there\u0027s a part here and I can tell you what sort of part that is and put the appropriate icon and then when the user finally clicks on it I can take the bucket bits and hand it off being able to have structure that is protocol readable and then the security inside it and maybe this goes too far but having that structure is useful I can comment on that there is a something called open trust protocol and this a group called tip that have exactly this problem they uses Jay bass with base64 encoding but since they wanted to know what kind of object is coming on the line they had to add an artificial Jason container outside which is sort of ridiculous they have a two layer structure where the outer layer of course is not signed and that was for convenience they want they have one line a channel and they can send different objects they want to know what object is coming before they start processing and that means that the verifier must check that the inner and the outer object actually is or is the same so it adds quite a lot of inconvenience to applications as well so you forgot one word there which is allegedly coming I mean so so again the point is a security transforms right is June well we\u0027re gonna because this is gonna go into the sec dispatches okay perfect discussion all right so we\u0027re not dispatching the recap is is the actual dispatch of his own sec dispatch we have had some discussion that there may be application layer use cases for this that may be independent but obviously will interact with security use cases and and eligibility is important sometimes except one it\u0027s not okay we have Brian Rosen in the room so we are going to switch back to dispatch as we were doing art just now people so we\u0027ve gone back and forth I hope everybody is okay with that if you\u0027re not tough you get my slides yes I apologize for being like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:18",
    "text": "the airlines we\u0027re not cooperating cancel the flight anyways so that\u0027s good we\u0027re trying to start an effort which we call rum a relay user machine which is a sip profile for a videophone that\u0027s used by a video relay service so video relay services used by a deaf hard of hearing or speech impaired person to communicate using sign language a video film they communicate using sign language to interpreter or the interpreter communicates using voice to someone that doesn\u0027t understand sign language yeah so it\u0027s useful to standardize this interface I\u0027ll go through a few reasons why but this is a uni interface this is a device interface it\u0027s build a device that can talk to any interpreter service interpreter services in different countries work in different ways in some there are there commercial or enterprises that have government funding when they\u0027re used by authorized people and they compete with one another so there\u0027s multiples of them and the users want to be able to use the same device with all of them and that\u0027s not the way it works now when they changed providers they have to change devices because they\u0027re all proprietary so the goal is to create a standardized device that can be used with multiple service providers so this is the device interface there are other profiles for provider to provider and that\u0027s not in scope for this work I do have a draft that was developed in another environment that is the bait we hope is the basis for it but it doesn\u0027t have to be that\u0027s Rosen grew 0-0 and we do have a room reserved 10:00 to 11:00 on Wednesday to get going if you are interested and as we go to the next slide I want to interrupt you for just a second and let people know this is actually a working group in formation so we\u0027re actually a bit past the normal dispatch process the Charter is currently an external review and I think it\u0027s highly likely that we will have a working group within the next small number of weeks so what you can kind of see the discussion here and this discussion on Wednesday is to try to jumpstart that work so so keep that in mind this is real work it\u0027s already been through the initial review of the iesg and unless something\u0027s probably thing happens I expect we\u0027ll see a working group really soon now I did want to go and present the Charter the Charter is not finalized that\u0027s still in review there\u0027s still an opportunity to change it we have had discussion on the dispatch list on the Charter changes were made as a result of that there have been various changes today the concerns "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:18",
    "text": "but currently just go to the next one so I I will go through this quickly I don\u0027t want to take too much of your time is one more thing assume he has a question for clarification okay Paul you have the floor hi I just want one comment on the previous I did this meeting on Wednesday I don\u0027t see it listed in the in the Medeco meeting it\u0027s possible to enable that one for me to echo unfortunately the side rooms that we have available are expressly don\u0027t have meet echo support I really don\u0027t like that but it\u0027s what it that\u0027s what they told me they said use a side meeting and the side meetings don\u0027t have me knock out support okay I won\u0027t be there you know there\u0027s people who would like to be there who won\u0027t be able to be there I will see if I can arrange something but I don\u0027t think we can work on it well we\u0027re coming okay so the Charter so there\u0027s these instances of the arrests video relay service that use sip and it\u0027s used to communicate with speech impaired people videophone to an interpreter interpreter uses a phone call to we can use any other mechanism and you can do it both ways you can call the interpreter and then the interpreter will place the videophone connection so having a standardized interface allows the vendors and open-source developers that build devices that work with multiple service providers just for your interest there\u0027s already an open-source implementation of the draft that I have that\u0027s being worked on and they\u0027re committed to implement the whatever comes out of this work so there will be existence proofs of this work when we\u0027re done so the device is could be a purpose-built video phone could be you know a box or it could be code that\u0027s downloaded on a PC or something like that and what we want to make sure of is that all of the things that matter when you do that are interoperable so codecs media transport addressing sip features and that\u0027s a profile of upset that\u0027s what we want to do so the output of the group is a single document which is the profile and it includes video real-time text and audio and it\u0027ll represent our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:22",
    "text": "current thinking on all of those things we\u0027re not trying to not reinvent the world with who the wheel we will reference things that exists we don\u0027t really want to build anything new and particular we\u0027re gonna try and reuse a lot of the work that WebRTC did and the media we\u0027re not anticipating any protocol changes at all there\u0027s no gonna be no protocol work we do need to worry about things like telephone numbers and other things but we\u0027re not going to assume that the users the hearing users are on the PSTN but that is the way it\u0027s usually implemented now we just want to make sure that we\u0027re more general than that for this work we\u0027ve talked a lot about the interaction of this in WebRTC we backed off a little bit on on it in the Charter but we want to make sure we would like to make sure that you could implement this client by using a web RTC implementation so that the server created the SIP that this profile defines that\u0027s not an explicit goal it\u0027s just a thing we\u0027d like to figure out and at any rate we want to maximize the interoperability between WebRTC implementations in this again we\u0027re trying to reuse the work not to invent new stuff so that\u0027s that\u0027s the goal hmm so there is there\u0027s a requirement that it be interoperable with emergency services the ITF has done work on that we\u0027re going to include that work which by the way is being implemented in the United States and Canada and a couple of other places so we\u0027re going to reference the existing eco at work [Music] there\u0027s yes yes I\u0027m wasting a little bit whether it is only it\u0027s the profile you know a lot of the work is definitely it\u0027s the profile but because I understand is there\u0027s some things you know like address book synchronization and things like that that maybe fall outside of this profile but are still part of this thing yeah I don\u0027t want to get I don\u0027t want to get constrained by the word profile but it\u0027ll be up to the workgroup to decide how much of the stuff that\u0027s in that draft which includes things like provisioning of the device we want to include but but yes it\u0027s really a little bit beyond the SIP profile because it does get into provisioning things again we don\u0027t need to have that there the current draft has it but it\u0027s it\u0027s not the most important part of it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:23",
    "text": "the part that matters the SIP SDP media piece not not the other stuff but that\u0027s a little bit even you when you say SDP and and and RTP related things that\u0027s already getting a little bit beyond sip yes so I\u0027m trying to Aaron Faulk I\u0027m trying to reconcile the name that you\u0027ve chosen the text that you\u0027re showing in the Charter and in the use case you\u0027re describing and it sounds to me like the the hard-of-hearing part is really a motivating use case that you could well it would you put a tree a language translator at this intermediary instead of a sign language translator or are you specifically trying to address this one particular use case that\u0027s a really interesting question which I haven\u0027t really considered I I think it\u0027s just going to work the mechanisms that we want to use include the language tagging mechanisms that we developed and slim so that you know that you\u0027ve got a American sign language video on one side and English audio on the other side so if you wanted to translate French audio to English audio I think the what we\u0027re talking about is going to work just fine it\u0027s clearly biased to make sure that video phones work and you don\u0027t need video for that but I think it will just work and if you want us to modify the Charter to express they make it work I don\u0027t think that would be an issue I can\u0027t think of any reason why it wouldn\u0027t I think it\u0027s worth considering or possibly choosing a name that is more specific to the use case that you\u0027re addressing and where is the machine in this i I worked hard to do the sip thing of alcohol-related Thompson yes the M stands for that in the middle oh okay yes it is a man-in-the-middle actually yeah I don\u0027t see a lot of discussion invented the Charter and I only have the the type of contents of the document in front of me right now but how much how much thinking all that aspect of things have you done well X I mean it is a man-in-the-middle that that is the use case right I think that we have not spent any time thinking about whether we want to do anything to assure the user the end-users that they are communicating with expressly with one another if that\u0027s what you\u0027re getting at that is kind of what I\u0027m getting in yes and the question is who chooses the man in the middle in this case right so it\u0027s somewhat dependent on country I can tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:24",
    "text": "you exactly how it works in the US and gunner or hellström or somebody could tell you how it works out in other in in Sweden and it works slightly differently in different countries in the US there are multiple competing providers and there\u0027s a database that associate Sat Ella phone number with which provider is the the current provider and there\u0027s an express way to select another one in the signaling so that you can do this thing called dial around which the Charter actually does reference which allows you to select a provider expressly from one end or the other from the originating end so the originating call the originating that callers can choose the translation service yes there\u0027s a default if you don\u0027t end out an express way to do it if you wish so the question comes to what extent do you believe it necessary to have discussion of these things in the Charter as opposed to just discussion of these things that\u0027s a great question and and how much work do you anticipate there being in the working group on this subject yeah it has not come up we didn\u0027t think it was a big issue it\u0027s has a practical matter it hasn\u0027t been a big issue given that we\u0027re doing the full ITF process I think that\u0027s probably not good enough I trust that you\u0027re gonna do the right thank you for bringing that up I think we probably want to say something John effects I\u0027m at guess relatedly the security issues like letting the end-user know that this really is the translation service they think it is and not somebody watching a you know yeah I mean I yes I I think that that\u0027s it is something that we have completely ignored and that\u0027s wrong sorry we\u0027ll fix it it you you really do want to know I\u0027m now worried I\u0027m gonna be I mean I\u0027m now inventing mechanism and then I said I wasn\u0027t going to do any protocol mechanisms and so like that\u0027s an issue but I that\u0027s why we have these things that\u0027s why we discuss it and it and we knew when we brought it into the full process that we were going to get issues like this so thank you I mean if you do end up inventing new protocol Dinis it\u0027ll never be implemented across any of the devices outside of the center so it will I mean as you well know it won\u0027t deploy so I mean I love your current drop it seems to be as secure as you can possibly make it yeah and the limits of what will actually deploy yeah fully trust you will III yes yes that\u0027s true relaying Eric burger before Brian freaks out I think 90% of the am I talking with who I am talking with is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:24",
    "text": "already present and said yeah Eric but you get the issue that you get the call from the mean let\u0027s take an inward inbound call a hearing user calls us cause a diffuser the call that the diffuser sees is from the interpreter service and that part can be made secure but how do you know securely what the original caller is Chris when John and I then talk I\u0027ll be back words their case for a little while maybe this is a good excuse to do that you know oh gee oh no no this is great I\u0027ll talk to you that would be great and John - that\u0027s terrific all right let\u0027s move on so we don\u0027t because we wanted to keep this down to 20 minutes so point-to-point calls are possible which don\u0027t involve our interpreter that\u0027s a simple by bypass of the interpreter mechanism the device profile should just work that\u0027s the idea and this the text does come out where you you can select the provider using this dial round mechanisms and that has additional requirements and they are in scope we do note that the interface between providers has to work if 1:1 if you have a point-to-point call and one is on one provider and others on another provider than the two providers have to have an interface that works but that is out of scope there is a document that does that for the providers on the other hand if we go and mess with the Codex it may affect that and we understand that next this is the whole Charter in one page it\u0027s exactly the same text I just wasn\u0027t sure which one would be easier to deal with just go right on I put up here the outline from the draft just so you know what\u0027s in that draft I I don\u0027t need to read it it\u0027s just giving you the idea of what\u0027s in there this is just a individual submission that will be will ask that the workgroup adopt but it doesn\u0027t have to do that but it\u0027s got call origination and the die around stuff and nap traversal things and media audio video and text it deals with security it deals with again a few things that get a little bit beyond because it includes car Daffy and a couple of things for contacts and the provisioning thing and mail waiting so those are the things that are in the in the draft as it exists now but again will be subject "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:30",
    "text": "to contributions and discussion in the workgroup next I think that\u0027s the last right so this is the status that we said we\u0027ve got this Charter discussion going underway looks like I need to make one change to the Charter which I\u0027ll work on the text for that and hopefully we\u0027ll have it and then the side meeting is 10:00 to 11:00 in Paris and I really appreciate anybody joining us we can get get started on this thank you okay so this is we\u0027ve finished our main agenda both dispatch and art so now we are at our any other business point in time if anybody has anything else they want to add so someone told me the people working on the pay to URI schemes might want to plug something at the mic but I don\u0027t see anyone getting up final chance okay I think we\u0027re done and blue sheets are right there okay let everybody [Music] "
  }
]