[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "foreign a couple of more minutes or we can just slowly start and go through the usual IPR stuff and procedure just you know if there have been any messages in the last 24 hours I haven't had time to read them that's fine I think we'll discuss them anyway it was more of a heads up looking as I said just a heads up thank you that's fine all right I will slowly start um obviously waiting for Pete Resnick to show up because a lot of issues will require his participation but we can slowly get started so welcome to the March 2023 email Co interim um I'm Alexi and to this somewhere here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "you should all be aware of not well if not let's read the relevant documents I think pretty much everybody here is a long time it has participants so I expect you to know that um as a quick reminder read colleagues with respect dispute ideas using well recent arguments used by engineering judgment um this session is being recorded uh who is willing to do the notes please I will if nobody else wants to do it I just need to figure out how to open the note-taking tool it's usually an adventure for me okay thank you very much Todd uh yeah again just uh main uh main decision points right main arguments yeah right thank you uh quick overview of proposed agenda although there are three slides um after checking existing list of issues uh I think we are closing issues quicker than we are opening now uh them now so um I can see the end of the process um so um we'll talk about few things related to trace header fields um they kind of split between our two main documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "um then we talk about ion registration procedure and where I think the main discussion point is where the text should live um then the right couple of remaining SMTP issues we'll discuss briefly um and then we go to the applicability statement a few more related Trace um how the field related stuff um and just one one of the issue about use of TLS which I would like to get progress on with that Pete is here it's all good right um very quickly this is just a reminder how we ended up with the whole Trace header field related set of issues but various documents extended what um they thought was defined in our main documents but they weren't so uh with that let's go to the first issue um after reviewing various uh uh Open"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "tickets I ran across issue number 74 Syntax for the C30 fields I think uh our last round of discussions resulted that I don't believe we want any syntactic changes um on the slide this is what uh 53 21 22 bits is currently saying um I suggest to clarify the last sentence by being a bit more explicit uh specifically that Syntax for received Twitter Fields is defined in 53-21 bits when used by SMTP comments beat seems uh a little repetitive but I got no problem with it well um yeah um I think um your text wasn't wrong but I think it was a bit not necessarily to obscure but I think I wanted to be more specific about one issue that probably comes up very often yeah people won't I got no problem with it and I mean it's in just extra no big deal okay makes it clear any other comments John I'm uh I'm fine with this as long as this query a pointer to from 53 22 to 5321 in the specific symptom and I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "thought for those that are coming into the smtpath that point is there and as far I know I don't do anything if I record this about this yeah yeah and yeah I think that that should be addressing your concerns specifically that you thought uh they're in conflicts that makes it quite explicit good all right Dave um so the cross-referencing from 5322 to 5321 raises a small issue about layer confusion um what happens for example if email transport is not done by 5321 um you've got the 5322 document depending on a component that isn't actually in play yeah beat let me make sure there I am um yeah I may have been a little too subtle in these such as but 5322 has no normative reference to 5321 the idea here was just giving an example that further restrictions um can be applied such as 5321 and to add Alexis bid defining more specific syntax as used by SMTP but if you you know you could follow that with but if you wanted to use it somewhere else you would Define more restrictions or less restrictions somewhere else um that uh you know that this was basically uh the the soft here's an example of how you might uh further restrict but it's got to at least follow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "the syntax the the broad syntax that's in 5322 Miss right all right yeah hopefully no further comments if not then I'll move on to the next one um I will quickly just very quickly introduce this and then Pete talk more about it um one of the issues uh that John raised was about this optional field at the top of the fields definition and whether it means that new type of blocks other than trace or recent can be defined and what does it mean um we have discussed this issue in at itf11 I believe there was a very short discussion um I watched you um recording there was no objections at the time to do to remove this to to keep to keep this field rather um but John raised I think a good point about extensibility and whether we really want to encourage creation of new type of credit field blocks and what exactly the semantic is what does it mean so in reviewing this um Pete's posted version zero five which actually removed this uh and Pete can talk a little bit about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "why he proposed this change yeah so it turned out as I went through it that Trace itself is already extensible we cleared that up a bit which meant that to get something into the trace block didn't require any additional syntax up here in the top level um after talking with John I I don't know why I didn't get this before um but but he clarified um there we don't see any particular reason at this point that the recent block would need to be extensible um we don't see any particular reason and this might be the controversial bit that a new block needed to be added that wouldn't require some new specification to do so anyway because how would it behave and that the obsolete or whatever we want to call it syntax the read-only but do not generate syntax already allows you to chop crap in here that is otherwise undefined um we sort of came to the conclusion that that additional optional field up at the top really didn't add anything that anything anybody was generating right now was perfectly legit syntax given everything else and so we might as well get rid of it um and it only got added in in 5322 I think it wasn't in 28 22. I think because we didn't think through that oh it already appears in the trace you don't really need it for anything else so if anybody's got concerns do speak up um but this seemed like we nailed it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "he crosses his fingers Dave history I remember is that um prior to focusing on Trace field placement the header Fields were not order dependent and so uh in the the ABN F presentation that appears to indicate order dependency that wasn't actually intended that could probably be fixed by um doing a level of indirection which then makes the order occurrence not matter um I I'm I'm also a little confused about what problem this is fixing and more importantly whether this problem has manifest itself in the last 40 years so the interesting the more interesting question was what problem was it fixing when we introduced it into 5322 that wasn't there in 2822 and I think the problem that was trying to fix was additional stuff in the trace block which is more cleanly fixed with the extension in the the trace syntax itself um so I think we were um we were rash in adding it here in 5322 and taking it back out is the proper solution that sounds as if the statement is of all optional Fields or Trace fields no no no no no there's an uh uh well this doesn't go down far enough in the syntax there is another optional at the bottom at the bottom and and so this was introduced to specifically put an OP an additional"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "optional field within the trace block which I think we've all decided was dumb or between Trace block and resend block and then what it meant yeah yeah oh yes your look of confusion is exactly what we all went through the facial expression is in fact my comment I'm done right thank you so yes I believe this is correcting a mistake we we uh squarely pointed the gun at our foot and pulled the trigger yes and the reason why I specifically wanted to bring this up because we made the opposite decision a few years back and the issue was reopened even though we didn't have a ticket for it we didn't track it properly so now we are doing it kind of correctly just to make sure that it's uh all minuteed and recorded all right so um assuming you know I already posted the message you know you and I posted messages to the mailing list saying that please object if you have a good reasons and that's there are any objections uh what's what is in current version of five is going to stay basically without the top optional field right thank you very much um and now coming up to our somewhat um favorite bike shed at the moment is um basically uh at last ATF 115 I think we had agreement that we want to annotate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "to add an extra field to the message had the field names registry uh pointing out whether a particular header field is a trace or not um and now we need to decide where this extra iron registration procedure is going to let um John go ahead let's see first of all I I am persuaded by your comment at the bottom of this slide that that 53-22 base is probably a better place than 5321 Miss but I would encourage the working group to put things which are fundamental like this uh in the base documents so if we're defining Trace fields and extension Trace fields in uh in 5322 bits then instructions no matter what how they should be registered ought to be there rather than trying to add them on to the As and hope somebody will see them okay beat um and I sent the message late last night just to kind of summarize maybe more for me than for everybody else where I am on this and I am not dying on this hill but it seems to me that adding um whether something is Trace and the whole discussion of what that means and the semantics of that to 5322 bits is adding newish stuff to something that's supposed to be going to internet standard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "I am not committed in any way for to be in the as in particular but a whole new discussion of what would constitute um a new Trace field why you would do that what its operational semantics are seems a bit much for 53-22 bits so I'm leaning toward either the as or a different document I I'd like to understand why we think the as is not appropriate although I've got some inklings but I've got at least funny stomach feelings about putting it in 5322 bits foreign sorry I was muted I was saying Dave God you go ahead first and then John John can respond to Pete uh so um the the more generic comment first um uh uh my general view is an applicability statement should talk about application it should not go and be a spec for core technology it might have normative language about use of the technology it may in fact be Innovative in that uh that that's an interesting discussion to have about the document but it shouldn't go and be defining the technology that's what specs are for and as soon as you've"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "got normative language that goes for example and defines what a trace header field is or defines a a registry for them I think you've moved into being a specification rather than an as that's the general comment the uh the specific one is the degree of energy and discussion and time that has been spent on Trace header fields arguably already moves this document into an area of new content far beyond what was in the previous version of this document and so I suspect what's going on right now would be haggling about price to use the cliched reference and if essentially from what I can tell what's happened in in the crystallizing of the trace discussion is the sense of a semantic contest concept that was a vague at best in the earlier documents and is trying to be made much more concrete operationally and syntactically if that's true and I think it is and it's already in the document and I think it is then the issue of modifying a registry or defining a new one is small potatoes in comparison the question then I'm just going to move on to the next point the the question then would be what's the right way to signal that something is a trace field um if Trace Fields have fundamentally different syntax and I think they don't then having a new registry might make sense if they are in fact only a matter of where they appear in the header in the header and how they're handled in the header and I think that's the definition people landed on then having it be a flag in the existing uh registry for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "header Fields uh seems the simplest uh solution assuming it's operationally okay to go modify an existing registering that way okay John you're next then beat well uh first of all Dave's analysis of the principle about what goes into the As and what goes into base documents and mine are in complete agreement I therefore will matter will not repeat it um second observation uh is that I agree with Dave that we've gone off on an Excursion here it's partly my fault uh that uh uh just trying to figure out what his average deal is and we looked around that year or two ago and that resulted in some text in uh in 5321 which I now think we may need to take out and that's hopefully a discussion of the leader in the meeting oh but uh but if the conclusion is that 5321 should only talk about its Trends fields and everything else and and all other discussion definition at the specification level of Trades Fields should be in 53-22 then this goes in 53-22 and Dave's argument that the particular details of where it's played in the registry uh are are small potatoes is is in that sense exactly right and if the right solution as Pete suggested was to pull all of this stuff out of both documents and put it into something separate I would lose no sleep over that at all except that I probably won't volunteer to write it okay beat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "give that second for things to kick in so Dave and John had me convinced it does not belong in the as I'm I'm on board with that um I think the thing that's driving me away from 5322 other than the work and you know I I can uh make that up by volunteering to write the other bit uh somewhere else um the only thing that's pushing me against that is I think there's more to it than simply defining a flag in the register in the registry because I don't think we've written down anywhere What specifically it means to be a trace field um I think it is just a flag in the registry but there's all sorts of operational implications that people think they have when they call something a trace field some of it is remove this when you resend it some of it is other operational instruction about how you might where it belongs when you add it doesn't belong at the top does it belong at the bottom um I with I did open a ticket for this and we'll talk about it tentatively it was for as I will probably disagree with you as a participant okay uh are you happy to defer it till late in the session absolutely but finding the registry flag if you have to go into any kind of detail about what that registry flag means then it should be in a separate document if it really is just a flag and two sentences to describe it um and everybody agrees that it's just two sentences peachy I'm happy to put it in 5322. right um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "I would like to complete these three documents before the hit death of the universe so with that in mind can I propose that maybe we'll try to put some text into all 5322 bits and if people start argue about it then we'll we'll pull it out and we'll figure out what to do with this go on John you know I I think the problem here Alexi is uh is more or less what Pete said which is that everything here is connected to everything else and you know where one stops uh is hard um and I think quite correct that stopping by saying uh um uh let's put this flag in the registry and uh and and Godot will arrive at some point and bear the rest of the problem Oh and and even to refer to the rest of this to later this meeting which is fine uh is going to get us in trouble and if that really means we need to write another document and Pete is going to take the lead on writing and I wanted to help I have a lot of spare texts I'd be happy to donate uh but uh but I don't think we can blow the problem off which I don't think is what you're suggesting but still no it's not what I'm suggesting um maybe um completely uh optimistically I'm thinking that we're pretty close on this one but what I'm suggesting is let's see if I'm right uh you already wrote the text what I'm suggesting is actually uh you have a couple of sentences in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "your document about ion registration I suggest to move this text over to Pizza document and see if it sticks that certainly works for me uh okay and obviously we'll have a later discussion about in this session about operational considerations if something new comes up we might revisit this decision but I'm trying to make some decisions so that we can you know tentatively move forward and and see if it works right with that let's move on um so trying to wrap up a couple of issues um raised by John uh one issue is about appendix B which is generating SMTP commands from internet message format header fields and whether it needs updating in regards to submission uh whether it's correct as written um I appreciate that people might not remember exact text and it's probably it is too much text to put on a single slide so um proposal on the table is I think the current text is correct and know for the changes I needed but can we please have a couple of volunteers John if you want to say something extra of course please my my only comment was that this was raised on the uh on the mailing list a very long time ago as these things go and it's got no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "substantive comment which is what is left led me to conclude that there wasn't a strong working group consensus for drilling around with this anymore yeah and I think you've done a minor tweak that might have clarified possible terminology confusion everything remaining seems to be correct as written um again I thought I felt obligated to raise this so there was no confusion about my having made decisions when I suffered a closet but uh but I think we're done can I have some volunteers to double check the text other than chairs and editors that that overwhelming enthusiasm seems like more reinforcements are just being done um again people have had months to months and months to look at this there were Volunteers in the chat room oh okay sorry okay excellent John on can excellent yeah thank you very much okay and uh another thing um another ticket that John opened was about operational requirements um I use John text and I added sex uh section titles so that it's more readable so basically there is a discussion in section 7 8 local operational requirements and resistance to attacks and seven nine scope of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "operations of SMTP servers and there are Pointers to both of them from section six two um again I had a quick look at this I think the text is fine as is but I would like to hear what people think and again if there are any volunteers too double check this foreign so the proposal is uh if the Assumption then the text is okay there's no future text in applicability statement is needed but obviously if people double check and find that that's not true that that can be proposed thank you John um cam can you also have a look at this one sure thank you all right so um I will send a message asking for a specific deadline to double check these two issues and assuming that everybody is happy and no further changes are needed I will um close them in a couple of weeks right um moving on now to a couple of issues in AFS related to the trace header fields"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "um there were two set of uh proposed additions to the applicability statement uh one is based on my tax which John extended and made more helpful I believe um it's about basically uh you can only trust uh received credit fields that you inserted and be careful about what kind of um trust you place and all other header Fields inserted by the agents as well as what kind of conclusions you can derive from them um what people think about this text John all right let's see there I am um I think it's okay I think I mean in practice I actually find received headers useful for like sorting a mail to figure out where it came from but I guess that would be covered by this so I I I think it's okay I think this is one of those things where it describe it discourages people from from naively trusting and people who actually know what's going on will understand what it means so it's okay sounds good so it might be both simpler and safer to cast this in terms of what the received fields are and are not um and what they can what they are expected to be useful for rather than Beginning by or or really frankly dealing with who they're not useful for uh I used offering to suggest a counter proposal then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "um I'm willing to take this text and try to recast it in those terms yeah okay and that so I'll so to spare me from going up to GitHub if you could just send me that text fine so okay what we'll do is uh your proposal alternative text and then we'll pick between the two or maybe we'll pick big bits of it or whatever um okay sounds like a plan any other comments All Right Moving On the other suggestion was uh specifically um that motivated me as one of mua writers about what are the trace how the fields are useful for or you know what can you should or shouldn't do with them so um specific suggestion is if um message is being resent you know a lot of email clients have added as new message uh when they basically take existing messages as a template and strip it and sanitize it and specific suggestion is if you do this kind of operation you should strip the thresholder fields comments thought I'm not clear here are you is this in relation still to issue 84 or 85 hey"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "84 why there are two separate issues so that's why I was confused yeah this is issue 84. sorry thank you John [Music] I don't disagree but I mean there's a whole lot more stuff you want to strip I mean look look at the header of any random message and you're going to find stuff put in by spam filters and mysterious mysterious cred put in by by bulk mailers and stuff so I'm um I think a lot of it will be registered as Trace basically yeah I guess I mean I think this is one of those things like it's not wrong but I you know but if you're going to say that you know I would say it more strongly you know they should you know they should they should only include headers likely to be relevant to the newly to the newly edited message or something like that you know in addition to stripping Trace headers I mean for example date you probably don't want to keep that yes well date is not traced so that's it's specifically talking about Trace yeah that's what I'm saying that there's stuff Beyond there's stuff Beyond Trace headers that you would strip um I suppose we don't really have a document saying you know how how to implement edit as new uh if we had such a document that extra text will go there yes yeah it seems you know like I said like it's not wrong but it seems like you know the oh then I'll keep everything else which would be wrong well let me see what Dave has to say Dave"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "wait they they've oh we couldn't hear you try again so I think my comment is at least in the ballpark of what you two have just been talking about um to the extent we make comments about what should be done for reply it's a technical statement about formulating a new message based on an old one and we have uh to the extent we also have comments about forwarding which is including a message in another mess in a new message then this is in the realm of another one which is basing a new message on an old message um and in that sense it's almost like reply but of course the the target recipients are different and there's expected to be some added content but then there is for that for reply also um as such this isn't specific to uh trace this is specific to creating a new kind of message uh based on an old message and that is either a big topic or a small one depending on where it's put in the document how much needs to be said um the and uh again as was said it's not as if this text is wrong it's that it's touching a general a more General topic uh rather than one that's specific to trace header fields and it may or may not say more than about just Trace Center Fields but this then goes back to the question of whether this document is now doing more than just moving from draft to proposed this is specifically about applicability statement which is in you document John some of this discussion excuse me is beginning to feel like we should be uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "attaching new text to the uh to the document about principle called principles for writing male userations for Fun and Profit which is which is document we have deliberately avoided trying to write for the last company years um for for for lots of good reasons which uh which Dave has explained in the past much better than I can um but it seems to me that what we can do about this would be to turn this around a little bit and I'm not prepared to propose text in real time but will uh which so but make this say more like an mua with Jesus said he's just an email message this way uh should be very careful to clear out um uh header fields that uh that are relevant to the previous message and how it was received uh rather than um and and and and then use traces an example rather than making this a specific Saudi statement about Trace fields and I think that Dodges the bullet that uh that Dave and John rubine have been talking about without losing this probably useful commentarily Lexi uh I'll chase you about the text okay and Pete wanted to say and then decided not to be do you still want to talk uh Pete decided that John said it better in in Dave's uh comment uh uh uh completed the pictures okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:10",
    "text": "all right moving on is hey Pete's favorite topic that he wanted to bring up earlier and I will participate in this discussion um as an individual go on Pete so yeah hold on Todd might have a quick clarifying question if you have a question the agenda that was posted to the list mentions ticket 85 here and there's no mention of ticket 86. um I updated slides and I forgot to update the agenda okay but they are kind of foreign thank you for calling me out beat so this may be overtaken by events of the past uh uh you know 45 minutes um because this really does go to what needs to be written about trace and where um sufficient for defining what that registry field meets right that that's really the the standing question is what is implied by ticking that column in the registry but maybe we've come up with with the answer that it doesn't imply that much and therefore it's okay to just have a tick mark and we're done and there's only going to be a few so that yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "that's basically my position that other than talking about what muas can do all other agents just add Thrace color fields for some specific ones there are requirements to strip them at various points like authentication results on inbound into the target system but I don't think we'll have rules that applies to Old Trace study fields so I think we shouldn't try John and per your earlier comment Alexi there's already text in 5321 this that um uh that answers a small portion of this question from back we were trying to do more about defining what a trace flip was there and I think per your earlier suggestion if we could take that text tweak it a little bit and drop it into 5322 we will be about 90 through on this I think we could fairly much ignore the under 10 percent if if Pete is going to collaborate with me on that moving process I'm happy to do that makes me very happy well I mean realistically the whole price related discussion is the main remaining sticking point that we have in all our documents yeah and and coming back to Pete's question earlier we need to address these kinds of issues but we either need to address the minimally or we need to go down the path to another document I I think we we've got uh now violent agreement on that bit um you know I I guess my question is and and you know I'll work with John on some text here but I would like to hear from some others I I mean what do we think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "that means if it only means it's informational stuff that is put into the message as it traverses different systems lost your sound Pete ah hold on we try again try to listen laughs well John you and I are still here oh you can you hear us Pete can you still hear us let's see I I heard oh yeah yes uh okay mystery um but I heard you the entire time my only comment was so long as what we're defining is a trace field is just something that um is information as the message traverses different systems that is stuck up at the top for informational purposes um and that's all that tick Box means and it has no other operational implications glad to put that in I'm not sure what the what the column in the registry buys us at that point um but okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "I I still think there's gonna have to be text written about what you do with the fact that it's Trace well as I said people I think have expectations for any uis where we're discussing some text about this I know it's not much but it's basically strip it in sort of under certain conditions i i i creepy in my personal preference of B2 push this harder but I think we just agree that things as often in the new document range uh but uh but I think it is just informational I think we need to make that clear and uh and I think that's okay and we've now got tentative text which I will try to fix for the 8S which talks about what you do with the operationally and uh and text has been proposed at least on the list which we can drop into the into the uh as well because it's just descriptive about uh this being intended for people trying to understand what happened or analyzing problems and not for clever interpretation by uh Delivery Systems for example and I think we could elaborate on that a little bit in the as without going into the territory which I think uh I would consider would fall into the range that they've described the specification around the description earlier so I I think we're closer on the same page in a more you know this world I would I would I I would hold hands with you and dash off and write that other document that I don't think we're in that world uh no one wants to see that yeah I'm I'm okay with minimalist text uh in 5322 bits that just says it's part of that um and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "um and actually I don't think you know there's much that needs to be added to 53-22 bits at the moment there's already a little bit of text in there maybe a sentence or two more and then put the put that in the registry and and be done with it and I I'm yeah so I'm not hearing anyone jump up and say no no more is going to need to be said and and that needs to be in and we need to start writing that new document immediately agreed I think the uh the one thing which we should probably be sure is in the aspect and we get through with this I think it's there now uh is that the reason for distinguishing that we've had this part of this discussion is the reason of distinguishing Trace fields and all these other things is because of that toughness property and and at the same time dear reader of as if you think the top this property is has been violated and you throw the message away on that basis you're likely to lose some good messages and you know yep okay consider me convinced all right and with that trying to wrap up [Music] um ticket that was originally on 5321 base and then was moved to yes is um relationship to basically use of TLS with SMTP um and submission I think I would like to have some volunteers to double check this I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "um text that was part written uh part separated by Todd about um authentication and encryption addressed a lot of these uh but there might be some loose ends specifically to TLS in particular uh like no protection in storage um And in regards to 83 14 I'm not sure what needs to be said in this case um John do you have any specific suggestions or requests um uh no um I I just dedicated in chat that that if you are not disqualifying me because I've normally an author on Das I'll I I'll happily go through the Texas there now uh and take another look my only big concern is we not go too far in this direction uh precisely because we're we can be in danger of saying things that people understand as um if if you encrypt things in transits everything is wonderful uh while we get this very real durability of uh of clear text on on this intermediate servers and I just we we either don't want to go into that space or we want to go into that space very very carefully but we don't want to end up with something that says uh uh you should encrypt everything in transit because that will solve all your problems right um I think yeah if this text is missing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "basically TLS Hope by hop TLS is not sufficient for to protect yeah and and and similar problems would apply to uh uh to overdoing any comments about uh are about Dane or demarc or anything else that somebody might feel like putting in there I just think we need to try to very carefully last week over promise I guess would be the easiest or appear to over promise but again let me do it carefully and I'll try to make some comments on the mailing list okay sounds good um and with that we are at the end of my slides I feel cautiously optimistic that we're making some progress um I think we also we didn't quite resolve uh we didn't get close on some specific as issues but I think we have some directions and text tools um stop discussing or maybe the text that needs slight editing with that uh any other issues John uh Pete made a suggestion in a pre-meeting office discussion about uh getting specific volunteers to check any or all of this stuff which seems uh seems unresolved so we've got a clear statement on the mailing list about uh about agreement rather than silence there uh if you're satisfied we've already covered that that's fine but I just want to make certain that belief not let that slip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "yes well uh for a couple of issues specifically we have volunteers to review the text and say that the text is okay as is which I think is goes along the way that what you uh UMB suggested right but but but I'm a little bit concerned about any others as as you know very well I've been very concerned about the degree to which there haven't been uh comprehensive read-throughs of these documents I hope they'll occur by working group last call or absolutely or even careful read-throughs of uh of gifts and change lists on uh on 5321 especially uh because it is by far the longer document and by far the more convoluted one the thing I'm particularly concerned about is getting ourselves into a situation in which different sections of that document s say things which are not quite consistent with each other and I'm right so I could diligently to check for that but it needs another set or several silver sets of eyes yeah I think what uh uh chairs probably will do is uh will specifically nudge people to do more detailed reviews um it looks like we are going to have relatively sooner the revision of both 53-21 based and 53 22 base if uh at least like shift the text around and at this point I think will be if not at the point where we can do last call uh I will be nudging people to do reviews and making sure that good thanks Todd did you want to say something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "clarification for the notes um if the participants showing in the list is um Duke wishes to be identified by any other name please speak up now okay um duke it shall be in the notes even even if he she or it or they do not it would be good to know who that is just for the record the person's data tracker profile indicates nothing at all it appears to be someone who wishes to remain anonymous John just posted in the list all right I think with that I think we're done thank you very much for coming and thank you for making progress thanks very much thank you for practice working group and it's even more fractious authors"
  }
]
