[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:01",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] this helps one working group if you\u0027re coming from MPLS of assimilators then you\u0027re in the wrong room okay well this would be talking oh yes it\u0027s time to miss them so yes welcome to the open working group so this is the Mount well you should have read it and if you have not please to read it so you have all the nice things that are there about what so this is an ITF participation and and everything that you say here it is going to be considered an ITF contribution and what is all the ITF contributions you know if you\u0027re aware of any IPR that is owned by you your sponsor you need to disclose this to the chairs so please do rate the if you have not done so the the different BCPs that are here yes and as a reminder of course minutes are taken and the meeting is recorded and streamed live from the internet and the presence is locked "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "please do don\u0027t forget to write the blue sheets to write your name on the blue sheets so you have the the minutes are taken on the ether pads so we have the inner pad link that is here on this on the presentation on the materials so we can find it through the website of the ITF if you go to the to the agenda and meeting materials you can find this one there and yeah please do contribute to the to the minutes yes so we have several a couple of our traditional minute takers that have already said that they will take minutes but we would like some of them are presenting so who else would like to to help take ten minutes so sorry thank you very much and if also it\u0027s going to be taking thank you very much chef erasing evil and so will we really encourage people to use the meat echo but also magneto jabber scribe so is there anyone that could do the job as crabby okay thank you very much Eric Eric is going to be doing the Java scrapping and just automating materials on the data tracker all sloughed all things are out there so my dear check my dear co-chair Pascal has this very good way of showing how to go and get these things so we\u0027ll see this feature for our agenda for today we have a very tight agenda actually so we have a lot of items and so we start with the agendas here choose from it was published we have further the main topic or one of the one of the main topics that we have until now it is the shape our compression and then we have 6 or 1 and and other different technology drafts and one really important point is that we add gender the term is word we have - five minutes so we\u0027re probably not going to be having a lot of discussion said yet so do you have any modifications in agenda bashing at that time no so we just continue with our general overview what happens in the in the past in the past year or so so we finished our tonight item number one and Chat Chat for our item number two with it finished it was submitted to the draft - for publication so we are really well danced and tried right now we\u0027re also in which are Turing and we\u0027ll be talking about this identity at the end of the agenda this slot so if you want to see another view of what what has been happening since our creation we have been very very active a lot of so regular hackathons with regular results and Dominic is monitoring us about this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:02",
    "text": "thing we have again six interim meetings since our last ITF so really a very good place that if you would like to participate it\u0027s really open please do the join a lot of work is going is happening over there so this is of course the the good the good points that we had working with was called up finished with success so that\u0027s so many congratulations and to to the whole team and congratulations to you to everyone that really put a lot of heart into doing this and cook and thanks a lot to every one of the reviewers that did a lot of very serious work there so I think that\u0027s all from me pretty much it and we can get down to business with the first presentation from doming from the neck so I\u0027m going to talk about the shake yeah one anyway I\u0027m going to talk about the shaky draft static header compression and fragmentation draft first just remind everybody what this is about just in case you joined the group recently then we\u0027ll go through what has happened since the last meeting in Bangkok and tell us a little bit of what we did this weekend at yeah hackathon and what\u0027s coming in the next few weeks and months so this draft is free free things in one its specification of a generate header compression engine it\u0027s the specification of a fragmentation protocol and it\u0027s a specification of how you apply the compression to UDP ipv6 so it\u0027s really free topics that are related but that could potentially have gone into separate but for some reason we deliver them all free in the same document so basically the header compression was mostly we worked with it in first half of 2018 the fragmentation protocol and the description was mostly reworked and we\u0027ve written second half of 2018 in the UDP application of the compression engine to UDP ipv6 is from earlier times so what did we do recently after Bangkok we initiated a second working group Blasco that was especially focused on fragmentation because that was the new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "part it was close the end of November and we also had a presentation of that fragmentation to the lower Alliance at was curious but but the new fragmentation mode was and they were willing I mean interested in reusing that for some of their internal works and I think we\u0027re going to have a presentation later on about that one of the decisions that we made during the fall was to make the fragmentation make optional again this had been a long going discussion so the the new the text as it is now says integrity checking is mandatory when you do fragmentation and make is one way of doing it but if you have a known better way of doing it then you don\u0027t have to have a midship this was a strong request by some of the contributors as a result ticket number 42 which captured that question already a couple years ago has been updated with the recent discussion and decision so we can point is at that text to understand why we decided that and why wishing it\u0027s safe because that critical issue and then we rewrote the text this fall based on Charlie\u0027s review thank you very much Charlie for all the time you spent you invested into making our text better you know you a big thank you for that there was one issue that naturally raised which was a interoperability and the description of the rules and the details of the rules and we decided we knowingly we decided that it will stay rather vague in this document because we have another draft coming and Rohr is going to talk about it and that will describe that precisely so eventually we published revision - 18 and submitted to a ESG for publication a standard track RFC in December 15 and since then we recently got an early review by a costume which is only partial a partial review the iot directorate and we have already worked on that and then we had this hack around last weekend and so there were nine team members some of them not exactly all are on the picture we had two remotes in this one from friends one from Japan working in on a night shift at local time and three new attendees to any form "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:03",
    "text": "of ITF event rocket we worked on a open source implementation of shake the URL is shown on slide and what we done what we did during this weekend was to fall one was making the the code easier to use easier for newcomer to understand to grasp where what the code is what it does how to run it so we produce documentation we added tests etc and on the other hand we also improved functionalities we added compression features hedid tests and added connection to real hardware to be able to test over laura1 Life Network what we discovered that the hackathon is some in implementers did not quite understand fully the draft so as a result will add examples in the appendix section as we republish the draft following the directorate\u0027s reviews and the implementation is also a good source of information for this new draft that\u0027s coming up that describes what is in the context what describes the rules and so implementers told us I need to know this I need to know that so it serves as a reminder that it must be in the new draft and what\u0027s coming up next so take action for any Custance comments comments and we\u0027ll probably publish a a we spin up document shortly and then expect the other reviews from the milesg and also in parallel work on the open shake open source implementation that\u0027s it for me questions hi I\u0027m Charlie Perkins from future way I didn\u0027t say Carson\u0027s comments on the Opie win list were they did I just miss it or yeah you probably missed him it was an attachment the text file Carson actually took the text version of the draft and added comments in line look it was March 4th look at one of these emails I think it was on the main element I\u0027ll double-check if not I\u0027ll send them to you okay look just then I didn\u0027t see it but okay yeah because it was an attachment it could be easily missed the the mail was very small and the file was attached okay thank you and it was earlier review anyway it didn\u0027t pretend to be the review it was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "here\u0027s my first comments if you want to do some prep work on that Carlos Gomez on this point it seems like the email was not seeing the mailing list of this working group oh it was not only male expansions of the office of the DA okay okay so I stand corrected it was nothing too amazing but we\u0027ll send them to you anyway thank you thank you so much yes and and also special thanks to to switch for actually putting asking you know pushing for this review from from Karsten from the ihe Directorate so it was a real a real pleasure to have this did this video and we know it wasn\u0027t easy to get it so thanks a lot also for this Suresh [Music] thank you very much so Juan Carlos Anita seek Fox quick update on the draught swimming I\u0027d be one cheek over sick Fox co-authored with Carlos and lol so based on the latest version of chic draft 18 and there\u0027s now one of the big changes is the reference to the recently published radio specifications of sig Fox there\u0027s also improved architectural definitions the taking into account the composition of the compression the compression and fragmentation reassembly functions a little bit further clarification on the text we\u0027re working on optimizing the values for the fragmentation modes and some clarifications and operational details on other fragmentations are still on the works so again well the the big change is that a long discussion about having these specifications not available now they are and it\u0027s a public site so I included the link but basically it\u0027s a it\u0027s a link that gives support to to developers that want to play understand the technology and then look at all the details of the radio specification now it\u0027s available and it\u0027s included in the indie draft so then we can easily map the sizes types of frames and so on to the to the data sizes and payloads that we define in in cheek and understand better how to make it work so I guess on the interest of time one one slide that I don\u0027t have is we would like to call for adoption probably of the technology "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:03",
    "text": "documents this is the time to do it so far we have see Fox and B IOT and Laura of course they are in the works that seems like the intention of the group is to continue working on these three so it is and at the end of this meeting will be talking about the reach out drink and and well the discussion and those documents was already present original shutters I guess we could adopt that in these documents as part of the original charter but ideally that would be done with the Richard ring and also ideally these documents would inherit from the data model document and be more specific you know for this technology how you you adapt to data model that also is not chartered so long as that other document is not charted we are kind of on the edge but yes I mean very soon we wish to adopt okay so actually I\u0027m really also very happy to see that there was this the specification that was that was published so that\u0027s really really good and did you approve all because I I skimmed through it and there are some you know some details about different payload sizes and so forth so this is right now also in the in the industry Fox document I change the reference I make the public reference um actually link to to the specification okay so yeah just a quick question what is the meaning of now implants the trivet about Cisco what is the meaning of now public because if you read the the specs the specs is available on the IP I still belongs to six folks so we can\u0027t use it sorry could you repeat the question the the the things that if you read the radio specification that is now public there is a disclaimer that said that the IP are still apply so we can\u0027t do anything with the spec because the IP air is not open well we can really the spec it\u0027s firm that\u0027s it yeah that\u0027s the only thing that we can do and if you do read that it says it\u0027s a royalty-free license upon certain conditions I don\u0027t think that this is a forum to discuss this is just to explain the now public I think it\u0027s well it\u0027s public yes because you can anyone can download them and in the under G for it was in the case yeah so the details are now available and I will I invite you to to download and then ask technical questions if you have any just to answer your question about the call for adoption I guess we have this discussion about the rich authority am so will probably do all the calls at that time after at the end of the meeting or sick fucks for aloha gaiety let\u0027s just keep the coal-fired option to the end of the meeting we have 43 probably the sphere then yeah so we don\u0027t need sweet joins them and that\u0027s also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:09",
    "text": "question 4 - Suresh so do you do you think that we need to wait for the the Richard ring to be done or can we do today that in order to ask the people in the call for adoption I\u0027m not sure if we need to press the end of the meeting we\u0027ll do it on the end of the meeting okay Suresh from the the Jabbar yes please leave appear out the IPL now we need to find this closure as needed and for the last questions go for it okay so we go for a call for adoption that\u0027s my understanding of Suresh okay okay so that so at the end we\u0027ll call for adoption for the tree for the for the three drafts that will be presented first second third in the data model okay that\u0027s perfect this we welcome Eva you okay hello everyone my name is Eva Petrov and I will be presenting to you the advancement of the draft Chico val-d\u0027or one so the structure of the presentation is what happens in the last IDF and the transmen have the new version and what is coming in the next version so since the last version we had review from she which was giving 70 times that we need to specify and some additional information so thanks showing she and this led to the publication of version number three and we also got a lot of new ideas and texts from other people from the Elora Alliance namely Olivier eminence and Mark blue correct and sorry if I\u0027m not pronouncing it correctly and no those new text will be participating in the next version to come namely version 4 so what changed in version 3 is improved terminology and adding a security consideration then we cleared some of the still pending to be defined parts and that were related to war 1 and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:13",
    "text": "selection of ruwaida side attack sized timers and some other parts of the profiles for the next version we improved even further the definitions in the one I hope that the new version will be published soon but it might take like couple of weeks more and so another thing that is happening in the new version is the addition of icon error for uplink and it seems that it\u0027s much better for those scenarios according to us so we are going to go ahead with this and then we decided for interoperability purposes to try to dedicate an effort for the devices that support chic how about our uplink and downlink so that the minimum common configuration can be shared for all devices that support chick and another part is for some of the devices that need a little bit bigger continent headers to be transferring part of the headers in the airport so us to safe for example one bite this is the go of this change and so part of the interest of the work is also to see how to support the LMS of course Club support is also primary focus of this work another thing is right now we are mandating the windows size for Downing\u0027s to be always one but well it makes perfect sense or devices that are Class A for devices that are Class B or C it might not make that much sense so this is something we are revising and then there are some there were some of some questions how we go out of some bad state basically if the network is down for a couple of days which is mostly a theoretical question but in what could happen so after some discussions with the ship dry chic routers we got so responses that were satisfactory so that that would be maybe just not in the draft and yeah I would like to ask a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:16",
    "text": "question is are there people in the room that have some experience running she cover for one to share approximately how many rooibos and how many different if we assume that the rooibos will be put in the effort how many how much of that we need that is to be able to better save the row ID for now we have some information but maybe that will not cover all the use cases so any input about that will be greatly appreciated I mean either now or afterwards you can directly email us okay doesn\u0027t seem that there are people having I think on this right now okay so what is remaining is definition of iid and checking again that there is nothing remaining to be defined and that all the parameters of the ship draft are still covered in the new version of the draft and with that we would like to ask you after before is published please - please review the draft give us any comments and yeah I said the Co for adoption will be a little bit later can you do so me like I said - this one calais will be doing all those calls for adoption then in the end with discussion you had one good point about the number of exports but isn\u0027t something that maybe people from the loja side the low Haryana quarters could help answer so yeah imperative there is this question going on there or so so probably they will also purchase some answers I mean this in the end to be able to cover as many cases as possible so there are many applications which are which are not chic but if we can talk to this application builders we could ask them oh if you were to migrate to go up I mean how do you see that would happen right they know the application maybe they can have it also for us yeah sure the go my question was just the more important the better thank you evil and with this we\u0027ll call enough "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:26",
    "text": "hello I am Matt and I\u0027m in a room I work with Edgar Ramos from Ericsson to create this new version of the draft we completely review all the draft we defined the uses case we need to apply chic on we also add how role ID will work in each use case all the 3gpp explanation of the architecture and so far is now in appendix because we live except part of what we need we start defining the fragmentation modes for each disguise so the first Jesus case is IP based data transmission in the user plain so this is really how to transfer IP packets over the 3gpp network so as we have already in the past done with rock this is already defined for rock in the PDC player in the tree G network where there are sea and the RLC can choose the best channel to send the compression so here we have all the information about the IP packet and we can make compression between the device and not B so for this kind of transmission we think that without really need fragmentation because the aral sea layer makes segmentation and reassembly but there is an RC mode of transmission that trans transparent mode where there is no segmentation and perhaps there we can use firming no akyuu fragmentation but this is also we will need to see how it work who really works in the Trinity for the role ID in this kind of just case there is no problem because here we have a PD you of one thousand three hundred bytes so there is not really a problem about which size of variety we need the next just case we we put it is how to send a IP packet in the control plane and here I don\u0027t have I don\u0027t really have the management of the 3G network I\u0027m in the control plane so it\u0027s like I\u0027m sending an SMS an SMS message so I have between eleven and twenty five bytes we can use a variety "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:28",
    "text": "of two bits we need we need fragmentation and we can we can make this Sheik compression fragmentation between the user equipment and the router router so we can also send IP unknown IP data they call non IP data the coop massage for management in the network so co-op message has no an IP header there are only co-op so we can use Sheik for co-op only and we can also use chick for IP UDP packets data packets and the third user case we define is how to use sheik beyond this network as a tuna so I make the compression and fragmentation in the device and I transfer these packets until the end the application server so that then the 3gpp network is blind I only transfer the data and and I use the SCF router that makes an IP tunnel in between the device the application server and here of course the question is about fragmentation we are not sure we really need it because he said to null so with the bad way is not so small so we need to see that for rule I decides again we don\u0027t have any problem about which if we use one by two backs it doesn\u0027t care so that\u0027s what we have defined in this version and again we want to know if we accept the document for yeah and you know the answer questions a question thank you so much Chanel we will move to the next presentation which happens to be somebody I know well oh ho to tell thank you so I\u0027m going to talk about the data model so it\u0027s something we we started to work at the beginning of the Schick group but in fact we focus more on the compression and fragmentation so now it\u0027s time to go back to that in fact when you read a document about compression when we describe the rule it\u0027s in a very abstract way we didn\u0027t try to put Jesus on or things like this to influence implementer we we just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:29",
    "text": "wanted to define what we have in a rule and now it\u0027s time to have something that is more formal to cover what we will have in all the documents that the group produce so it\u0027s compression of IP UDP on coop on also over groups that may use shake unstoned error or non-standard so we have to add maybe new field ID new matching operator or new city so we have to see to have a very flexible model for that and of course that guarantee vinter parity when we exchange words so here it\u0027s an attempt to do this on by using coop young sorry uncork I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t write it correctly so I have to learn more about programs and what is important when we define this model is that in fact we will use cough cough you will use Sieber so to see how we can have the more compact representation of the information because maybe it can goes to the constraint link or we have to store a lot of rows so if we go back to to the rule as it is defined right now so adjust the table and ASCII table but say that we we have your IDs and for each or ID we have a list of entries with an 3 contained fill ID so fill ID is a unique value that is used to do the matching between the rule and a passer that will analyze a packet so the fill ID asked to be unit in some implementation like open chick we are for example ipv6 dot version but say that it\u0027s the film version filled for ipv6 of course it\u0027s quite long value so we have to find a way to reduce it after that we have a length and the length can be the size of the field in bit bits or it can be also function for example we defined variable but say that we don\u0027t know when we create the rule what will be the size of this field and so we have to send the value on the residue to be sure that the receiver will understand the same size so we are can have some function and some number feed position FP is just an integer because by Cooper in coop you can repeat several times the same field so we say the first time is one and if it\u0027s repeated second ex-director we have the direction that is up done or bidirectional we have a target value so a target value can be a number or bitmap can be a string or can be also because we have the matching operator matching a match mapping operator and it can be also an array of values an array of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:30",
    "text": "value so we have this different kind of things on then we have the matching operator and the compression the compression action but our functions currently understand as a matching operator can take an argument for example MSB came a significant bill can take an argument that say the size of a bit on CD a currently has no argument but maybe in the future we can have our CD a with arguments so we have to to put that in a model and something also that is important is that the rule ID is composed of the value under length so in theory when we are sending things with sheik a most common rule can have a shorter representation van la less common words so we have all this thing and of course fragmentation and raishin are in a same space so it\u0027s what we define in in the stander so now why can we can represent it in annyeong so here we have the young tree so here it\u0027s for a device so we have the chic context the shit context is defined by your list of rules it\u0027s Rudy is defined by rule or idea and a ready length but if for example you align your variety on the left side left then your ID can be an index to find the rule in when you are looking for it when you have the role ID defined then you have to kind of rule the rule for fragmentation on the rule for compression so here in this model I didn\u0027t put any value for fragmentation because it was big the size was more on compression but for example in open Sheik we have already defined some value 1 we can store them in in this model and for compression so here again we are going to define a list of fills on three and each vision tree will be if I will contain all the value I explained before the only difference is for example saws a target value in fact the target value since it can be a matching list then we can have several trees and vision tree will be indexed by their position so this give so here you have the young model or not enforce a young model so if now we want to represent it using your fuckin phone using CID values you run pyoung for example and you have all the UL here and you have a number a fixed number that is assigned to two V\u0027s value so here I took a large number but not large enough so income fees will be encouraged just before it will be a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:30",
    "text": "larger number that will be that will be assigned but here we have all those all the value beyond trees but are here in the alphabetical order so if we have a graphical representation of this this is a way we can represent the rule so for example rule ID value a value will be eighty thousand fifty eight extra extra and so each field will have a specific and seed number and in a first attempt what we have to do when we want to describe a rule is just to put for all these fields a value for example if I want to put ipv6 at their lambs so in a first approach we can put ipv6 at all ends here but it will not be very efficient then we put the lens eight we put the position one we say that the rule is up and then we have three proper a possibility zero four if if it\u0027s one one is it six before on to is its 255 then we put the matching operator no argument the CDA and no argument so now what we want to do now is to have a better more compact representation of the blue information so what we will put in a row so one possibility and of course it has to be unique and understood by everyone so one possibility is to use CID CID to put in these blue fields so here it doesn\u0027t represent a column but your present value you put in a new entry so for example if we want to represent field ID we can have a basic type that is sealed ID c-- type and then we derive all the fields we know all the field names we know into new identity when we run pyoung then we will assign this way a CID ID a different study a unique CID to all this identities so it can be done here I did it for ipv6 UDP and quad so it\u0027s a good way to represent the information but the prime is that if you do that maybe seed idea will be very large and we may have to find some way to optimize what we will put in a value for example ear it can be for bite for acid ID if we can have only one bite it will be better because we are in a constrained environment so how we can do that one possibility I don\u0027t know if it was Maya now because lots of things may change in in the core curve is that we can also have a shortcut that will be an enumeration of all these fields and manually the group will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:31",
    "text": "select which fields we want for a shortcut for example ipv6 version is not very useful because nobody will modify the version of ipv6 so here we don\u0027t need something very specific for management but for other fields we can use it if you use Sieber value between 0 and 23 are in one bite so here what we can do for example is to use positive number 5 pv6 and UDP and negative number 4 quad and here we have a lot of room but remains for new new shortcuts if we do that so we have to use Union to represent this and we say that the fill ID type is a union between identity right so seat value and a number which the small number that we would have currently Union is very trivial because when you send an integer you send an integer when we want to send an identity ref you send a tag and an integer and you can make the difference between them so this means that there is no extra cost to send chocolate so that\u0027s something quite efficient and I hear I have heard that maybe some people wants to add a seed in front of this and if we have a seed in front of it there is no more interest because seed will be long so we will have to find another way to cut so check cha had toughened us one of the people working on the city in the cork off just a interactive question where did you hear that we want to add the city in front of that yeah but that was like four only four items and very specific case so it\u0027s I think I think you\u0027re safe here so we can do that for fit idea we can do this for field land for so it means that for of course when we send a number we sent a number it\u0027s a positive number and we create some seed value for function like variable or token the length the two guitar defined currently in the graph and we can have also shop cut on to avoid confusion shot cut can be here just negative number we are very few shortcut Brent right now so we we have a lot of room for that so target value we have two types so here maybe we have to work more on the way we do that but here it can be a union between in 64 it\u0027s not just field we are using right now on string that we we can say as I said before target value is not enough we need a position because it\u0027s you\u0027re using the matching list so we create a group with target value and this position when you have only a for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:31",
    "text": "example equal then you will have the position but you have only one on three in this one so it means that if we do that we will have this cutting and instead of having identity here we put the CID we put lands here we use instead of using direction and put up or down we put a number but we are assigned to it Exeter extra matching operator has a special specific value is 4 and CDA as of so specific value so sorry for the injured when you say if we put a number we sent right that\u0027s the short value it\u0027s all the same terms because so the group with to decide which things that can be okay so this was chocolate when I expected but in fact we this is the first attempt to make a young model on this of course view you can criticize it without program I am NOT a young expert so it might my first attempt to do something onion so we have to check the very deeply see if it\u0027s correct or not and what is important here is that we will mainly use it on Coral Cove and so see the impact of the choice on the coding of information thank you very much is there any question in the room about this data model did you get a chance to talk to young people knowing they say it yes not yet so that\u0027s great so we\u0027ll ask the same question as for the other documents at the end of this meeting advice in deduction actually because we we have one minute more value may be left in until so who is the next presenter so Curtis so Curtis you can so chair hat off just to say what\u0027s really interesting when this thing is modeled with Yang is that we have the protocols that go around it so once you have the data model you have the midday tomorrow actually specifying this then you can go and configure it you know from a server side over the radio and all this comes out of the box so that\u0027s that\u0027s very interesting thanks so long for furlings initially I was really asking the question to the hon do we really need to make that very concise is in this between some provisioning system like the triple-a server and the network side so between those two we have a lot of bandwidth to be very care to make that concise and I\u0027m getting more and more feedback actually the devices could provide the whole model as they connect to the network instead of products producing the URL of the module is if that sort of thing happens then yes it\u0027s a very good idea to make it very sighs so now I agree what is yours yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:36",
    "text": "thank you hello everyone my name is Carlos Gomez and I\u0027m going to present the new draft and title RTO considerations in lp1 so as the motivation for this new draft as we know well in this working group there are some very important lp1 technologies such as 401 and sick folks quit offer some characteristics such as reduced be trades and message grades in some cases for example below one kilo bit per second or below one message per minute in some scenarios and then as a result we may get long or very long round check tanks in ideal scenarios the wrap the RTT may be already in the order of several seconds or tens of seconds and in addition there may be some phenomena that may increase even more the wrong shape time up to several minutes or even hours in some cases so the round-trip time and also its variance the round-trip time in lt1 is much greater than the typical one that we have on the internet and for example the default RTO in tcp used to be three seconds it was a few years ago reduced to one second also that the fault RTO in coop is randomly chosen between two and three seconds and however in in LP 1 we have retransmission timers for example when we use go up and if we send a con message there will be a retransmission timer also if we use cheek fragmentation there\u0027s an RTO also in a khloe\u0027s and akane remotes so a question that arises here that we need to face at some point is ok how do we deal with these special characteristics of LP 1 our titties so first of all we start with some theoretical study idea is to find here which is the rtt in what we call an ideal scenario on this slide its 401 the next one is for sig fox we have some assumptions like ok in this idea you know there are no losses no buffering delay no processing delay and we assume some size for the downlink which is a four byte payload could correspond to ship compressed ipv6 UDP coop message and then the idea here is to try to see which is the range of our TT values that we can get under these conditions considering that the uplink payload size may be small such as four bytes or it could be the maximum one allowed by the technology the Rio 2 technology and also the response the tunneling response in this case a lot of one can be the first Lucie window or the second one so the results are shown on this table on the slide and you can see that well there are different colors the main results are the two right most columns not sure if it\u0027s really visible here you can see it on the document and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:38",
    "text": "the point is that in some cases for example data rate 0 \u0026 1 here the default coop RTO as a reference is always below the RTT and also in some of the scenarios that the Fulco RTO is in quite a number of cases below also the rtt so we have a similar analysis in in this case 6 carbons just a short question share had off so this is on a simulation or did you run it on a real platform and this is a theoretical calculation this is based on minimum and maximum like best case worst case under these assumed conditions yeah as long and your message are empty so you don\u0027t have the time to transmit a message or what is it but it is for your requesting coopera well I looked at well for the request well you mean for the uplink message yes well I assume 4 bytes as a minimum like a low payload size not totally sure it really matches a realistic use case however it\u0027s like theoretical like trying to find which is the the minimum RTT we could get like in a very small payload size because sending 50 bytes in spreading factor 12 is 2 seconds so it\u0027s it has the loss yeah thank you so we have a similar analysis for seat Fox and in this case we have the same assumptions what changes is that the downlink response making at the beginning of the downlink receive window or at the very end trying to find again the minimum and maximum possible RTT values and we find that in this case the default cop is always below the round-trip time so in addition to what we have we we can also find another couple of problems which is that in some scenarios we find what we call higher-order are titties there can be two reasons for this the first one is compliance with spectrum access regulations which are enforced in some regions of the world for example in the EU if the device wants to transmit and wants to use some in some frequency bands there may be two approaches you may use listen before talk but if you don\u0027t do that then there are duty cycle constraints that are enforced such as for example the duty cycle needs to be below 1% in some specific frequency bands so there are lt1 devices that in order to comply with this rule send some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:38",
    "text": "uplink message which may take X seconds and then stay silent for the subsequent 99 X seconds so as a result the round-trip time here may grow by up to two two orders of magnitude for example could be like 282 seconds in the worst case for laura1 253 in the worst case for cig Fox and so that\u0027s one thing and there\u0027s yet another reason why we may get high very higher titties for example this problem is well described in document by Anna and luan which is the time scale option for co-op which is the problem that in some cases doweling response may be buffered for a long time at the gateway this may happen if the Gateway misses the opportunity for downlink transmission and in fact in cig fogs and also in your oneplus say for example a downlink message can only be sent after previous uplink message and however the Gateway in some cases might miss the opportunity for the downlink for example in some cases that came to itself stays silent for a while complying with the duty cycle regulations or in some cases it might be just busy sending knowing messages for other devices and in fact that only in lp1 is quite a bottleneck so as a result the next downlink transmission opportunity might arrive for the Gateway only after the next uplink transmission and when will that happen well it will depend on the application on the behavior of the device and perhaps the time until the next uplink message which will allow the downlink opportunity may come after a few minutes even hours okay so we\u0027ve seen these special characteristics of the round-trip time in lp1 and now we could think okay what should we do there are probably two scenarios here and one is maybe if delay is not really relevant for the application perhaps we just need to set the the RTO or the default RTO to the highest expected round-trip time plus a value and that\u0027s it and doing this we avoid experience timeouts however if delay is really relevant and we expect these higher-order round-trip times then perhaps we might need to consider some different approach so in in this section of the draft we propose a simple dual RTO algorithm this is basically that the device would be using two RTO algorithms and one is the higher tio which is compatible with higher titties and the other one is the lower teal which is intended to be compatible with the lower ones and in this simple algorithm it is that at the beginning the device starts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:40",
    "text": "with a higher RTO and if we get a number of consecutive samples which are lower tt values then we go to the other state and we use the low RTO algorithm if at some point we detect that we are in some interval in which we have higher our titties again it is we can go back to the high RTO state so the idea here is trying to separate these two different scenarios in terms of the RTT values because if for example you assume that you try to handle all of this with a similar RTO algorithm imagine for example the TCP RTO algorithm the variance may be so high that it may be very difficult to convert to low RTO values which might prevent doing quick retrace quick in terms of the scales we are handling here but perhaps it\u0027s it makes sense for the application to get retry in seconds rather than in in hours in some applications yeah and for example also you might consider a constant RTO and the point is in that case you really would need to have two different values for that two different constant rtos because if you try to use a single one it will only be adapted to perhaps the low or the high but you cannot be well adapted to both situations here so some possible next steps for this document would be analyzing also what happens for what we could call down Ling our titties which would be initiated in the downing and then there would be an uplink response and of course studying better refining the dual RTO algorithm that\u0027s proposed here perhaps evaluating the performance and the main question here would be okay is there interest in this work and subsequent question if the answer is yes then would be okay in this document there are like different kinds of contributions for example we have some kind of guidance material for how to set the RTO which is rather informational also we have the proposal of an algorithm which is of a different nature so there\u0027s the question of whether it\u0027s better to keep this within a single document or perhaps some other approach so yeah that\u0027s everything from Carlos on here thanks for the presentation well two questions first one I noticed that you the draft is not under any specific working group so are you planning to expand the scope to other technologies and the reason I\u0027m asking this is because I believe and we will hear from from Charlie later on the update from my trip Oviedo 2.15 but for instance there could be applications of chic to other technologies that are not lp1 necessarily so maybe multi-hop in which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:42",
    "text": "case this delay could be even more variable or unknown if that is the case is what was that your intention or are you trying to limit it to LP one note yes so actually the the focus of the document would be LP one meaning the technologies that are for example currently the target ones in this working group I was honestly having some doubts about whether perhaps maybe LP one could be like the home for this word but also because this relates a little bit with transport area that\u0027s the reason why this is like not explicitly indicated in the document but actually I only requested to present this here not the one and I understand that LT one is like the the main home for this work or let\u0027s say that potential interest should be okay so just to consider that maybe other technologies could start using shake and therefore coop over Sheik and therefore this could apply yeah so really it\u0027s related to the work here because we introduced a very weird form of latency but yes we are not any consumers and this is a transport this is something which concerns TCP does do the TCP algorithm without documented are not like applicable here but but I think it\u0027s very important data useful data for your Han document to provide like default values or suggest ways of of tuning the d\u0027art ET for coop I think that should be part of your documents because it\u0027s an important information okay the job is cried for me now Roddy similar questions my doing that\u0027s his draft proposed that the transition time are the values would be set in the protocol of the respective LP one technology ought to be open to be configurable by the application and slash network manager is that visiting this news offers in the analysis part of the document so in the in the analysis part of the document basically we have we study the performance of ROM free time for different technologies so the idea would be for each technology perhaps we want different settings and also we may have like for example some art yoga rhythm running at the application layer some other RTO lower layers like cheek fragmentation for example and those don\u0027t need to necessarily need the same although perhaps it could be interesting to study if if maybe the same algorithm can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:42",
    "text": "reused across layers you know okay thank you for Mina thank you so about the bottom of the question that asked about the interest I think that one of them so it first observation is that you have some figures that show that timers for co-op are turning out there are over N so that\u0027s by itself it\u0027s something pretty interesting and it serves as a support for some other jobs that were proposed here in the in the working group so personally I find this work interesting then I would like also to talk to our to our ad and and really to to discuss how how would what would be the future of this of this draft we currently in the proposed charter modification we\u0027ll talk about this we don\u0027t have anything in that aspect but what I feel is that if you have enough interest in your feedback then okay so so much is on the on the mic and is going on the mic and he will give us some more information about this breaking up can you speak very slowly because you\u0027re really breaking up that\u0027s slow week I\u0027ll show you soon rush maybe if you can type on the chopper okay so Suresh with a French accent this draft is quite outside of what we discussed during the rich Charter yes yes yes that that was yes sir thank you for for enjoying this I didn\u0027t want to leave this impression so it is yes so hold off until the recharger yes this is definitely what we\u0027re doing what I\u0027m saying is you know keep the work and we\u0027ll see in the future and if you you know but I feel that this is a very interesting work there is no obvious response to your question so we see okay thank you so I should still Epirus speaking on the michiko okay this we invite Rojo again okay so it will be a very short update on uncaught because compression because the document has not changed since the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:44",
    "text": "last meeting so we are waiting waiting for a review now about this document what is important too is that we believe that it\u0027s a very important document because when you see the feedback we got from the accattone or the feedback from the review from the main chick document for example the variable field in feed lunch is not well understand and there is no example right now in the IP UDP compression this example are in the coop document so it\u0027s not clear to understand it so Dominique suggests to move one example into main document and this co-op document will explain in more details also behavior further for the field so that\u0027s what we have so it so now we are waiting for more comment and if we do I mean I love the idea of having examples in the appendix I think that it\u0027s as good to put the example in this one document because the other one is flying I mean it\u0027s already shipped yeah since the example really realize to what you\u0027re doing here why not put it here Dominique has a strong advice on that not strong and this is the mini person yeah the thing is as I mentioned then I\u0027ve mentioned that the capital times already the other draft has free deliverables in it the general shake compression engine the fragmentation protocol and the application of compression to you tn ipv6 and in the description of the generic engine we try to mention the fact that we can compress variable and fleet but we don\u0027t have an example and so people have a hard time figuring how is this variable and filled our processed and so the appendix of that I mean the appendix I\u0027m talking about would not be about UDP and ipv6 compression it would be how a variable in v could be compressed by the generic engine and as an example we could use coop yes but like that UDP ipv6 is in the title right but I mean some people are just interested in ipv6 UDP I mean why bother they will be interested in this example because they are doing coop and so why not put it in the crab document but some people are just exam in teresting in the generic engine and without the example or we could have a pointer to the core trust once maybe you can generate a pointer then we have this issue of reference informational reference in the main spec saying you have an example of that Snuka expect but now if things change in the coop spec I mean it\u0027s good that the examples in the course back because otherwise you may only delay the Sheik dark and I mean it\u0027s complex enough not I didn\u0027t you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:44",
    "text": "think that needs to be reviewed well it\u0027s it\u0027s an example T appendix we\u0027re going to spin with new versions of the draft anyway because of the HT review so I mean right now this as a I mean the we how\u0027s that called Brisbane required or something that\u0027s the state of the draft so anyway we can discuss at a friend okay I\u0027m not convinced that you want to change a shake we\u0027ve been saying that for couple years and sometimes I think we should have changed things earlier like splitting the draft in free would have made shipping much easier but that\u0027s my personal opinion sorry okay would then we now have a question for Suresh again if he\u0027s hearing us what we seem to need now would be helped from probably core and reviews from from people who are more expert on the website would there be a way through the AAT direct writer or directly through the indirect right to get some early reviews from people who are experts in core that would really help and then if we have like a co expert reviewing this and totally happy to start the work of Lascaux and and improbably that there will be a second question on that and this would be like we see in some of the drafts and of the technology draft we see that the there is interest for running coop over over shake we already know that you know it works now the question is generally okay do we want to push it further so that\u0027s also a question that could be open to you to do the working group is do we want to delay further the document in and try to make it like very very very optimal or do we say okay we we are ready to ship this version it\u0027s working it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty good we we don\u0027t even know if it can be done better right so do we say okay it\u0027s enough as it is we ship today and in any case we\u0027ll need to have feedback from terrain deployment and that is not going to happen in a month so that\u0027s going to happen in one year do we have v1 today and a v2 in a year right so I\u0027d like to hear actually a hum on this because we\u0027ll be standing on this document on this draft for quite some time now so can I just have a raise of hands who who in the room has read "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:45",
    "text": "any version of this draft okay around ten people are maybe if I\u0027m not mistaking so out of these people who would consider that we should we should keep with this simplification let\u0027s say so go with our version today and if in one year or year in a half we decide that well there are sufficient use cases to do something better then we go with the next version so if you if you are for this option please raise your hand okay so everyone that has read it I think has voted for this one so who would say that we delay the draft until we have some some potential like some more data and maybe you know one in one we delay the draw for one more year for eventually get maybe something better so praise the right yes please raise your hand now so nobody\u0027s raising their hand so for me that that would be that we could do a working group Blasko and okay so i\u0027m so suresh with its 88 half please ship it even repeat it twice i think yeah and he put also it so okay so we have we have with from our ad we have please ship it so that means that we\u0027ll be doing a working group last call and we will copy color on this and yeah we have to review by core so this means that here it goes we\u0027re on the way so thanks thanks rush for this and thanks everyone this we\u0027ve gotta move to the next presentation which is Oh am i technique which is something new in the future charger okay because it\u0027s new in the new trotter we received that work for the future which came here to report that we haven\u0027t done much of the last month on this one it\u0027s a little bit of history for those who haven\u0027t followed that one originally there were two separate drafts by two different set of offers "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:45",
    "text": "that were presented and discussed at ITF 100 in 101 which is already a long time ago and then we decided we would join forces so we merge everything in one single draft and as I just said we this work was put aside for the best part of 2018 to finish the ipv6 ship draft just to remind everybody this is there is a general interest in operation administration management for IT networks and these are typically I mean we want to do very simple basic stuff we want to have ICMP error messages that users expect from you know the IP network we want to be able to do a ping able to do a trace route and see the the network respond with the messages were used to that\u0027s the very basic stuff and we\u0027re still open to other use cases to move on to do more more functionalities in that direction the use case beside discusses whether the those messages should actually go over the lt1 or if they should be proxied at the core and the core should answer on behalf of the devices without actually sending a message about the empty one so that\u0027s also part of that draft and and of course we\u0027re going to use cheek to compress those messages so this is slide from IGF 100 which describes the very scenarios that we are considering right now so we want to consider a device that sends an IP packet to the Internet and for some reason message is not delivered we want the device to get an ICMP error back so it can do something we want the device to be able to do a pinch just make sure the destination is still there we want users on the internet or applications on the Internet to be able to send an IP packet to the device in get an ICMP error message back in case something goes wrong we want the typically human user to be able to do a truss trace route to the address that corresponds to that device now we have to decide whether this trace rod goes all the way over the lp1 to the device or if we get an answer on behalf of the device from the lp1 network and we won\u0027t same likewise we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:45",
    "text": "want to be able to do a ping and get a response the one case we clearly ruled out is the device during a trace rod because we don\u0027t think it means anything for a device to do that and yeah that\u0027s pretty much it so we wisp in the version just two months ago to revive that draft that was expiring we simplified a little stuff I don\u0027t want to go to the details and we\u0027re going to resume that work and expect some discussion on mailing list if you\u0027re interested please contribute the discussion and we want to implement that using open check and experiment and see if we like it thank you thank you very much to me do we have any question charlie yeah I\u0027m Charlie Perkins from future way so maybe I misunderstood so you said that the SCH C Corps will respond to a request from the internet that means the device doesn\u0027t do it that\u0027s a question so you\u0027re welcome to the to the discussion as we said we this ways it\u0027s a question but what does it mean as Carl has explained in his presentation yeah if the device is a class a device in laura1 the next downlink opportunity from the core to the device maybe the next time the device decides to send an uplink which depends on its application so that might be tomorrow morning so what does it mean to ping that device maybe we it\u0027s enough for us to say that from the core the device is provisioned and is reported as being as life as it can be and so maybe this is what women back device is still there we we think it\u0027s in there but obviously we don\u0027t want to we we are not even able to send it to downlink right now so maybe maybe it is a different reply code like exactly what you said we think it\u0027s there but we\u0027re not checking right now that\u0027s exactly the what was good I didn\u0027t dive into the details but we had code zero could one con to to adjust the behavior we expect from this typically that\u0027s part of the upcoming discussion thank you that\u0027s a good discussion but if we create a new car if you have a device on the internet that doesn\u0027t know about lp1 and do a ping and you receive something it doesn\u0027t know then it can be also problem so maybe sometime you have to use the same codes so then it\u0027s a matter of deciding which is worse to fool the application on the Internet to believing something that\u0027s not really known or making sure that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:47",
    "text": "applications the Internet actually have some programming that it makes them have sense of sensible understanding of the device yeah so that\u0027s exactly the discussion we want to have is what do we expect from what\u0027s the best behavior we can expect from from this kind of yes maybe lp1 ping is not pink and maybe the application that you type on your shell is not pig butt itself you want pink at some point there wasn\u0027t anything right does ping minus six so you should I think that\u0027s there six or whatever and same for trace rot and it used to be different applications of v6 so it might be that you might need an option to be able to ping a device and get such sensible result when I\u0027m not against that no prob with that if there\u0027s a great great point that\u0027s a discussion to be had about this III remember that yes sir mentioned that they you know they he has been working on on some way to to make the distinction you know like if you have you know the product the the shake thing that so the the the Gateway or something that will answer instead of the device you know so we can have a different ICMP code or something but that is a good question so I maybe will need to get some input also from him then to see what was the work that he was doing there but looks like there are two different cases and that looks really interesting - okay thank you very much Dominique we have two presentations left we have all the time we need I guess know prime of that and there are kind of looked at them in the arcade of off charter we will have this presentation but I would like to to just take this window of time to do other core adoptions before people leave this room in case some people want to leave early I just want to make sure that the the call for adoptions are done so please be prepared it\u0027s happening now and so we\u0027ll be raising hands for the dumb question so first tribes will be talking about would be in the other will presented them will be sick Fox so please present the slides but we can start okay so people willing to adopt the sick Fox technology document there are current charter so the old chatter the new will be good but it\u0027s already present in the old shelter so willing to adopt please raise hands okay roughly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:48",
    "text": "ten opposed to to adopt okay will confirm on the mailing list so same question for the loja document willing to adapt okay some same kind of hands opposed opposed good joke okay so will we also have on the table okay so it\u0027s all positive and NBI OTE willing to adapt opposed and now that they come out all fantastic new document that law has presented to us willing to that okay same hands pretty much opposed okay so will be confirming all this on the mailing list as usual and we\u0027ll keep the authors aware on this and with this yes yes so in the minutes please said say that for all four we got pretty much only positive responses and that was around ten danish number of hands raised plus the chance now so that but that\u0027s great thank you also to the others so we as as cassette will confirm on the mailing list and once we get you know the the necessary feedback you will be invited to submit as working group document for the rich chartering a discussion that that we had so let me just switch the slides we have already discussed this and basically most of the things are as in the in in the old charter with some fact the second item the second charter item was split so here what you have is in in in black that\u0027s that\u0027s what we have today in the charter and we just are making it explicit and we had a question on on the green one and on the orange one eventually so the green one is about OAM and one of the questions was okay we can really make it pretty specific we want ping in in this sense or in that sense you know and so in the sense of the draft of that that was presented just just be beforehand so that is something that we would like to do to get some input on so do we leave it as it is and that\u0027s the first question and we\u0027ll need to get some answer for that one from also from from suresh and the second point is you know doing who is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:48",
    "text": "there any interest in which is the time now about security or something else the point is probably not the bodies in suresh and i guess we discussed over the last the previous two meetings the the pretty much the charter that you have in front of you we we had those questions about security ipv4 other there was nothing which came out of of that so we posted to Suresh a candidate charter which has all four items and on this paper and Suresh if you have any news for us about you know where that request from us is now standing anything you want to tell us about that your answer London I just like to go and please state your name um your on cylinder slowly okay so now I start again so I think this the cheek care had a compression of coop has a very good part I mean a security for compression for oo score which I think was very useful and there is a accompanying key establishment protocol a key exchange protocol called L hook and if anyone is interested in that that\u0027s a very compact way of doing key exchange so you could do it in pre shared key based authentication in 45 bytes or less three messages could you do it without any challenge or is there any mechanism that could be missing from what we have in the to documentation I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure I mean basically that would be a great feedback to us now right I don\u0027t have that and sorry so this was I we\u0027ve talked about this offline and I really I haven\u0027t really had time to look at this so this is just since the security question work was on this slide I just want to acknowledge I think was good work done on compressing all score and if you\u0027re interested there is a key exchange protocol if anyone is interested mystic okay thank you thank you go right and with this will we move to charlie I guess oh sorry she\u0027s back so maybe freshmen can you try this pig Suresh I can hear me yes perfect Mitchell okay so I just want to understand a little bit more about the ipv4 stuff like I was not really supportive of the ITV forward before so if somebody has like some real "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:49",
    "text": "item they want to work on let them put it forward because I haven\u0027t seen any drafts or any proposals right so at this point my answer is no but if somebody has like let\u0027s talk about it it\u0027s coming to the mic this was evoked maybe - I ATF\u0027s ago this is a domino then we get this input from the neuroma IOT part in order to have ipv4 compression in the tree DPP network but I have no more input there so so let\u0027s just get it go I\u0027m sorry Cho so it go we have you hello yeah I did some kind of sorbet try to find out how much interest the worst about having maybe before for narrow variety what I found out is that there is a lot of deployments of operator networks at the moment ipv4 only and then there are also a lot of deployments of let a external networks which are happy before even if internally in the operators they use ipv6 so basically many devices are still used in IP before saying that I don\u0027t find very difficult to use the that they call the the plane she as it is to compress IP before on the nerve an IOT case as it is because I think I mean if he that kind of support wants to be introduced it\u0027s very easily introduced by 3gpp but then if it goes over the top then it becomes more tricky then I think there is way it requires some kind of solution then what are we actually targeting if we are targeting like going for legacy as well Hitler then it would be good something in ipv4 but just to handle the legacy if we are okay with let\u0027s waiting what happen later and then adoption and so on and then we are targeting that kind of deployments then I don\u0027t have any problem to leave it as it is it\u0027s just the invocation of the market how it is at the moment and when you what we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:49",
    "text": "see at the moment outside I think it was something like half of the networks where ipv4 so it\u0027s quite a lot so your recommendation would be to 212 it draft Rd for that would be for the suji PP type of networks it\u0027s difficult to say if that\u0027s my recommendation I could say that is a good way to go yes I think I mean my personal opinion is that we should address yeah okay so I take it I say yes very long yes thank you so let\u0027s see what\u0027s thanks Edgar okay thanks for the info I\u0027ll be like really happy if you shared the result of the survey I\u0027m not sure like how they can scale the number of devices using ipv4 if you can send a node like this like a real and it\u0027s simple we can do it so yes let\u0027s continue this discussion about the meaning is so ed God if you could please send us a summary of your argument and then we would build on that [Music] so he\u0027s krrish suggesting doing a sheik math no I\u0027m not like that\u0027s not what I\u0027m worried about because I want to see like so I ate Edgar was like very non-committal right and I\u0027d understand because what Edgar said is like he was not recommending it but he heard a survey okay so and that\u0027s what like I want to see the survey and see what the results are like and and is is there a way for these people to move forward right because I don\u0027t want to be like anti v4 or anything like that but I just don\u0027t see how before can work like to the scale that we need right like especially with like MB IOT where we are trying to scale the number of devices - right like you know when the devices become cheaper and and with longer life like we\u0027re gonna see like a proliferation of the number of devices and I just don\u0027t see before cutting it right so that\u0027s really what I\u0027m worried about so why don\u0027t we reach out there with the four items start the work on the four and if it really seems useful that we can still reach out a little bit more right I mean it\u0027s not like it\u0027s the end of the world if we reach out or twice that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying so like until we know more and analyze this a work item like I don\u0027t want to talk about it during recharter because usually like the stuff we\u0027re talking about for each "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:49",
    "text": "other has like some kind of draft that\u0027s been a on we discussed it right so let somebody write a draft or like at least write like a problem statement or something like that right so what we want to do and then we go for the reach out rafter for that item so it\u0027s just a question of adding a milestone somewhere so we don\u0027t probably even have to go for a reach other like you know I can put you some diesel tax that\u0027ll let us add a milestone later if you want okay so about the current charter that we proposed to you do you have any status for us the four items we until the OEM that sounds good personally for me so okay so does it mean that the mean what\u0027s the step to get the chato screwed do you accept it like the process right so I need to go through an internal review the ESG an external review for us and the other external organizations we talked to it\u0027s like just a mechanical process I need to run through okay so okay personally I\u0027m okay so like if I\u0027m okay like you know then I have to do the rest of the process thank you so much okay laying from Jabar from so Teague Shannon le bateau dated and they synchronize but get feedback from 3gpp on ipv4 usage it\u0027s coming up it\u0027ll be Ted in the conversation so if I understood correctly and Pascal correct me okay so sirisha some on the mic so does this also question for for Suresh so we go on without a key for for now and and we see if there is work coming up if there is a draft out and if there is simple from somewhere then in the future we might do it but not today yeah thanks guys so if you want I can send in listen Sigma the 3gpp to get an answer is the working group wants me to check with eg about ipv4 okay so I look with the chairs and write a policy statement and post it on the list and then ship it off and if we find interest we will you submit to you and added them to the chapter and language of evident fantastic okay so Charlie sorry for keeping you no problem sorry shall steal on the mic so this originally thought I would come here and discuss some of the things that\u0027s going on in the Standing Committee and ie afraid a to 2.15 and so I\u0027ll do a little bit of that are a lot of that relative to the whole presentation but it\u0027s a very short presentation and then mass "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:51",
    "text": "gala asked me to give a little review of what\u0027s actually other other groups in NATO 2.15 are doing so most of that stuff hey I don\u0027t have a lot of information about Excel I don\u0027t go to the other groups in the second of all this I don\u0027t think it\u0027s very much relevant to ITF editor 1504 W is a low power wide area group and that document is made a lot of progress over the last few months and it\u0027s now sent out four letter ballot which you can think of is a little somewhat like working group last call and so I\u0027m pretty sure it\u0027s gonna have to go out for a couple of last calls or word letter ballots and price presumably sometime in the summer or fall it\u0027ll go out to the wider audience for to finish the standard for X was just approved by the uh Tripoli standards Association and and that it\u0027s called field area network extensions but what it really boils down to is just adding more parameters to some tables for quadrature phase-shift King I\u0027m not too good on those things 802 dot 15.10 a is an amendment to the layer two routing document that was approved for standard so it was published last year early last year and that could well be of interest in this group but and tonight yeah if in general but it\u0027s layer two routing and not layer 3 routing but it goes up it\u0027s highly scalable to thousands of devices and the content of 10a had to do with something that was not was under specified in the original document how to handle source routing basically one of the major topics of discussion has been coexistence between a two 2.11 a h and 802 duck 15.4 G and this is a somewhat precipitated by work and they doted on 15.4 Z which is a as best I understand it a revision of ultra-wideband and there\u0027s a lot of well when you get to low power interference issues can really cause a lot of difficulty and there right now it looked to me like IU 2.11 aah sort of winds on through hood but really suffers on latency and conversely I do Ted a 1504 can get a little better latency in terms of when there\u0027s interference with eleven aah and I don\u0027t think this is the only scenario where the coexistence concerns are but it\u0027s really comes up to the fore "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:51",
    "text": "with low-power and then lastly I\u0027ll mention in a turkic 1512 on the basically the idea or the charter of eight it\u0027s about fifteen dot twelve is to make 802 dot 15.4 is nicely programmable as they do 2.15 911 on the 802 Donald or Eric about 15 as nicely programmable as they go 2.11 because I enter through 911 has a relatively easy to understand interface still to layer layer three and that\u0027s been a source of a lot of popularity and the philosophy of native 2.15 was that when we want to make the device is really small so we put all the stuff in higher layers and that\u0027s not been very successful in some ways because that means that all the normal stuff you would think of that has to be done on the device for say by how transmissions from whatever has been done differently in different place mean different implementations so so now we want to make it more like a two 2.11 and that work is proceeding at a regular pace and I think it\u0027ll be made available sometime in a year year and a half so that\u0027s some of the activities in 8215 too but not all there\u0027s also an 802 dot 15.4 why that has to do with adding some security measures to the 15.4 and I have not followed that but I noticed that arrows here and he he\u0027s one of the authors says that work and so but what Tara wants to say something about that communion yeah it\u0027s only gonna mostly coning just add you know these 256 bit AES there we have a hundred and twenty eight bits and then there were some a standard organization in different countries say oh it would be nice to have a 256 or at least have a roadmap for that in case we happen to have quantum computers ever so that\u0027s us getting ready for the future if somebody would ever is it okay I\u0027m almost out of time oops I better hurry up and I didn\u0027t hardly get started sorry about that well on this slide I don\u0027t have to describe to you but I\u0027ll just I just mentioned that this is actually the presentation I made today to 15.4 group and so I wanted to make first of all the point of this is to make a document for a writer to dot 15.4 update of the current document of the document that we had out there it\u0027s not current any or but we wanted to show how to use SCH c or shook with a yogi duck 15.4 and not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:51",
    "text": "just specifically for for w but 4.4 in general so in order to do that you have to compare apples to apples and in one way when problem was well put about fragmentation do we use shoot fragmentation or do we use a turkey duck 15.4 fragmentation and in order to figure that out I tried to make some estimate on the minimum header sizes and fragment with shaked fragments and so roughly speaking I think if you\u0027re really really minimal you can get everything into a bite for the fragment header for sure or even less perhaps this is a single bite and then there\u0027s this mi see and actually I want to make sure to get this point across since 82 that 15.4 is going to put a frame check sequence on every every frame we don\u0027t need to mi see now was going to try to convince you to make the MSA optional but according to the previous presentation it\u0027s already been made optional again so that was great thank you so in order to compare properly to fragmentation from shake versus using a turtle 15.4 fragmentation we had to I had to go in and do some estimates on what I did I 15.4 overhead its per fragment and since I\u0027m really really short on time I\u0027ll just say that [Music] so it matters a lot about some some shion\u0027s you make on the idea 2.15 odd for headers and you can get probably about 5 to 7 bytes overhead per fragment with that and that depends on what all you think about compressing on them on the mac header so and i want to also mention as briefly as I can that when I described the shake editor they looked at I 15 that or the Standing Committee on IETF by surprise I got everybody complaining because I called it Mick and they said it is not Mick is FCS frame check sequence and so they recommended that ITF document change from calling it Nick to calling it FCS and I don\u0027t have time to really go into that right now but we can talk about it on the mailing list ok this is a ok so please go ahead so it all depends on what you call a frame for us a frame is below shake so Omega C to verify the integrity of the whole set of fragments that we are sending and each fragment is encapsulated in the frame so that\u0027s why we no want it to call it a frame check well that what their argument was it is it\u0027s not any sort of integrity check "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:54",
    "text": "because it\u0027s so easily defeated if somebody wanted to you know Forge a little bit of the data and in other words you can do a cryptographically but if you just use the sort of chicks on mechanism it\u0027s not good enough it\u0027s the word integrity I guess which has a strong security aspect in it which kind of hurts here well let\u0027s not have this discussion now but we can discuss the remaining list if we need to rename the mick I don\u0027t think this is not an important point to me but they thought it was important so I wanted to say it ok so I don\u0027t have to talk about this but I\u0027ll just say that the way I estimated the minimum Mac header size was to take every one of those numbers there\u0027s a two and there\u0027s a 0/1 if ever there were a zero I said ok we\u0027ll delete that part of the frame that\u0027s all this stuff got deleted but the security control had to be there and you\u0027ll notice that the frame check sequence is not gonna be deleted it\u0027s at least two bytes so that\u0027s where I got the Mac header overhead estimate because when Chicksands down to fragment fragments every Mac layer thinks every one of those is a frame and it\u0027s gonna put the frame header on every one of the so Leca I am is what\u0027s been in native to a 15.4 for a long time low energy critical infrastructure monitoring that list what they thought was going on with low power wide area networking 10 years ago so there was a big debate about well maybe we should get rid of LEC I am and just put locally our wide area network in there but so far that hasn\u0027t happened and the thing about a talk about 15.4 fragmentation it\u0027s only defined for this the LEC I am or our white area and in order to do it you have to incur the overhead of first sending a frame fret a fragment control information element and so what I did was amortize that initial fragment control thing over the total number of magnet fragments and that I don\u0027t know how many fragments you would get but if you had it\u0027s just four bytes for there CSD and if you had four fragments that one one byte for frying let me new chime I\u0027m out of time yeah well okay well that\u0027s the way it goes and so I will spray you this fabulous discussion about frame table values and I guess oh so one thing I have to mention this and in order to compare apples to apples we really need to know about the security model for SCH c and what is that I try to propose really reducing them to the bare minimum the Mac header and I people were upset because there\u0027s no security there and it\u0027s in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:54",
    "text": "argument went on so I guess I have to be done let me just let one last observation that the m.i.c itself is often done on chip greater 2.15 dot for so this is in addition to them frame check sequence and if shook wanted to do something about security then we would have a solution here that would be handy for 850 okay thank you very much very much thanks charlie so yes and a very good question please the next presenter to be double yes thank you very much Charlie for this you asked you you put some very interesting questions hope to to have them answered on the mailing list and to see progress on the draft on the 802 the 15 note 4 shake over your technology so so hi I would like to briefly talk about is the header compression so ESP is IPSec so IP security so this is clearly nothing herein appear on that\u0027s happening in a few second it but because we\u0027re using a lot of technologies or ideas she was developing Karsten encouraged me to present it here very quickly so I guess most of you know IP not everyone of you probably knows IPSec so what basically happens IPSec encrypts everything which is in the AP payload or even the IP header itself this looks basically like that all the red stuff is encrypted which means it cannot be compressed between layer 2 and 3 where usually deep compression is happening so we could only so for example shake could only compress the ESP header but everything else couldn\u0027t be compressed and the good thing about IPSec because build a security context which includes a lot of these values you compression could be quite efficient and you have a static context between the two nodes so everything in green is already there so we don\u0027t even need to build up a context and everything in blue can be calculated as it\u0027s done and shake anyway and the other few things are typically static so what we do with is the header compression we just used that so we already have a static security context between the nodes which are talking to each other we even have a separate channel which is as far as I know but is missing for chica took a moment to agree on the compression context we can use Ike we can use group Ike for any kind of group communication we can use hip or we can just do it static and compile it on the firmware this context already holds "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:56",
    "text": "the values we want anyway they call we call it traffic selectors for example IP addresses ports and whatever and we have done this before I think a few a few of you know rock and rock over IPSec so something similar has been done there before so what we did is we had our compression we just defined how to do it and that\u0027s basically that\u0027s probably why Karsten told me to present it because I guess most of you know this kind of actions and rules they look very similar to what is defined in sick because they are inspired from rock and chick we defined them in the document for ESP so for the ESP header for ipv6 for IP before so this also means IQ before it\u0027s not really a big problem for us we defined them for TCP for UDP and for UDP light and the this looks like a lot so I calculate I quickly went through it that\u0027s like 59 header fields to exchange rules for if you cut them like ports and stuff then you\u0027d still have like 44 header fields you need to exchange but because so much stuff is already there we defined strategy which we call via DSP which optimizes this exchange of the context and which leaves us to just define nine or to have Neetu exchange and or flash nine context all these values which we can then use to compress all these fields so we basically have in an optimal case we have no overhead of any day of any protocol inside ESP and we already discussed this a little bit offline with the people who did chick so basically miss Dominique end of our I think it could be even easily extended to because it was also something you couldn\u0027t compress otherwise that\u0027s basically the I\u0027m happy to take questions offline and if someone who thinks this is kind of interesting wants to read the draft yeah I think it will quite aligned it to what will be the final document in chicks so that wording is similar once the system okay thanks double yes any question in the room I have one question and just before we go and that that is did you find so because we hear a lot of shaky used in security context so did you find a description of the the chick fully enough like did you find some things that you would like in the future to be added eventually or so that I mean you you just took the the shaky draft and you applied it and it worked and you didn\u0027t need to pretty much yes I mean I think when we designed it it was like version two of the chick drafts but I mean this kind of rules didn\u0027t really change a lot and yeah maybe they changed a little bit but and the security I mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:56",
    "text": "then you have you have to hold security of IPSec gives you so you have an encrypted payload or with an IP that\u0027s what you get that\u0027s the security you can get this these people and to end thank you very much with that we have were out of our time so thank you very much thank you everyone please don\u0027t forget to sign the blue sheets in here in case you have not done so and meeting is adjourned thank you so much does anyone have the blue sheets you "
  }
]