[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:20",
    "text": "Thank you we can't really get started until we can get two note takers Nobody? All about the last, thanks, Elliot Sure Sure Sure I could use a second one Can you help him? Thank you you All right, let's go ahead and get started. Welcome everyone You are in the skim working group session if you're not expected to talk about identity management provision you may be in the wrong room Oh, can you guys hear me okay? Okay, yeah, Aaron is not speaking. I'm on the mic Okay, so next slide, please All right, so it is Tuesday, hopefully everybody should be familiar with the note. Well, I don't think I see any new faces. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "just please remember to take note of the note well Next slide. Just a reminder code of conduct, except respect as we speak, speak to the business at hand. Don't take things to a person level We are here to further the global internet. So be prepared to participate as an active participant. So thank you, Pam and Elliot for being the note takers. If I So be prepared to participate as an active participant. So thank you Pam and Elliot for being the note takers. If we could have somebody to also watch the Zulip we as the chairs, we'll try and do the same, but it would help if somebody else was here to help channel any questions that might come through there as well Oh, thanks Kathleen and Peter Yeah. Okay, so with that we can get to the task at hand okay as the chair kind of trying to be brief agenda bashing So we're going through just the agenda bashing right now Danny is going to talk about the Delta Queries draft as well as the cursor pagination draft This is not the updated slide Phil is it Jen that will talk to the skim events? events Okay, either you or Jen can speak to the skim events. And then we've added to the agenda, eliot lear will be providing the update on the device model So we did do an early IOT and sector review for that draft so Elliot can give us an update on the feedback and where he is with respect to that update Any comments on the agenda? going once? Danny, did you want cursor pagination first?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "Yes, please. Okay. Oh, okay I will reorder that in the uploaded version, not on the slides slides So Aaron's going to be updating the agenda on the meeting link because the chair slides will take longer longer Okay, so with that Danny, you wanted to start with cursor pagination Do you want to share your slides or did you? want us? Oh, never mind, Erin wanted to start with cursor pagination. Do you want to share your slides or did you want to... Oh, never mind. Aaron's uploading already already Yeah, thank you, Aaron. So, yeah, this is just really two slides. Oh, I have control now, cool cool So just quick update on cursor pagination We've gotten, I think, four or five different sets of feedback for official channels I'll call it, utterace, like working group reviews regarding cursor pagination over the past six to nine months. We've addressed, I think, virtually all of that feedback. I think we might need to follow up with some of those working groups to get them to, I guess, review the changes and sign off But in general, we're doing good there, I think Our current sort of main and possibly final real blocker at this stage of things is we need proof of interoperability. There are some instances of cursor-based pagination in-tgim out there in the wild but they were generally all developed by the original author Matt Peter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "Peterson And it's not really interoperability if the same person writes the client and the server So we're, I think we've got I don't know, we'll say hope or whatever on getting that interoperative, that proof of interruption to exist We're having some conversations we might have people who can help but we will gladly take any additional help if anybody, you know, tracking this either has already implemented or is willing to help us do you know, sort of hackathon-e, basically implementation of this. I imagine having more than one client and one server probably helps us along the journey So let me ask here in the room, is anybody working on an implementation, show of hands? or for those who? are remote, if they can channel that? in the chat I can say that I'm working on implementation but I don't know when it'll be viable, so if there's anybody else, yeah. Right so taking my hat off real quick just as representative of Cisco, we are also looking to doing an implementation. But we need to staff that up as well Staff. We're looking for the people but we do have the interest to move that forward to I think same for us We are, we have plans to implement From A Edna. When it will be done, yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "Yeah, so just as a reminder when you speak up for the note takers state your name. Okay, yeah I'm mentally. And affiliation We have plans. Sorry? Oh I just said state your name and your affiliation yeah I'm angeli from AWS of them sorry oh i just said uh state your name and your affiliation yeah i'm angeli from a w s and we have plans but uh okay when it will be available it's not yeah. So I've started on the Shepard write-up. So let's just keep a pulse on that Did you guys submit? an update to the draft based on the comments? that you got yeah we've done several, I think two or three versions since we've done to the draft based on the comments that you got? Yeah, we've done several, I think two or three versions since we started getting feedback as part of the last call, the most recent update was right before the submission cut off for IETF one getting feedback as part of the last call. The most recent update was right before the submission cutoff for IETF 120. Okay, so I'll go back and review that as well Okay And then only other real things of note, Matt Peterson, the original author back on the draft as an author. We have taken long enough that his career, moves have put him back into a position that can work on this. That's great We should have at least one more draft coming in the future just to sort of tidy things up That'd be great Was that it? Can I just ask for a clarification? so you say skim working group it's working group last call right Not IETF last call? I mean, you haven't handed it to me? or Roman or anybody else? No, it's just working group last call? Okay, good. I just new and paranoid. Yep no, it's, it's, um Danny meant skim working group like call. Because I still need the shepherd"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "But yeah, on this topic, that is all we have. Okay Great. All right so next up is the Delta Queries Yep, and uh Anjali and I will both be presenting on that but uh Anjali will start us off Adhushin. Addushin Yeah, um, next slides please. This is Angelique from eight of yours So, before the ITI for This is Anjali from eight of yours. So before the IETF, we have published a new word version of the Delta query draft. It's a new overhauled version. Lots of changes from the previous version. Essentially, we have introduced capability to not only return change through resources, but all those updated resources the draft specific allows for tracking change attributes only as well So in our initial draft, we had add qualifiers to say which resource has been added or updated updated updated or deleted or deleted this new version we have introduced support for an updated resource to specify which action or deleted. Now with this new version, we have introduced support for an updated resource to specify which attributes have changed and only return those instead of returning a full resource object so that's kind of an a further level of optimization on data queries Just to give you a context on what these Delta queries, are like Delta queries can be used to return modi resources, so modified means like created updated, or deleted. This is essentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "can be used for use cases where a system is constantly looking for updates from the skin server or client site, a skin server instead of just a push model and also some anti-entropy use cases where their workflow where you want to read of just a push model and also some anti-entropy use cases where there are workflows where you want to do an anti-entropy check to make sure that the data on one side of the either screen client or server is in sync with the data on the stream server side For representing attribute level changes, we are the relying or we are using the SCIM patch operation Excuse me, I'm sorry to interrupt you Angelina. Your microphone isn't that good. You slow your speech just a little bit so that the note takers can take notes? Okay. Are you getting a better? Yeah, it's just a little bit muffled, Angelo? okay Is it better now? now? Yeah. I think it's a little better, Angela Thanks. Yeah, okay I was mentioning was that the new specification to the represent attribute level changes, we are reliant or we are the use skin patch operations semantics for the present added remogra be placed attribute values yeah and we have already published the new version of the draft uh not sure if anyone has got a chance to read through it But if not, you can go through it as well. Next slide please In order to represent this new specification, we are introducing a few"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "new endpoints One end point p. delta token token this end point is used to retrieve the delta token, the initial delta token. So in our previous draft, how it was proposed was that anybody trying to use Delta queries for any of their use case would use Delta queries itself to get a full baseline of all the users and groups and membership information. And then, in the first initial Delta query, with full retrieval of all these sources, the response will increase a Delta token on the last page of the Delta query. However, to make it more optimal, we have separated the concerns. What we are proposing is in order to retrieve all the users and groups, via a list operation, the skin client or the skin client can use an existing endpoints of list users and list groups to the retrieve all the users and groups and set up their baseline and in all order to start the Delta query, we are provided with a separate endpoints, which is slash Delta token, which is just going to return the token that represents the point in time of now And then further on, the client can then start using the slash dot delta end point to retrieve the resources that have changed or added or deleted from the time when the delta token was issued and the delta token that was retrieved from the dot Delta token endpoint will be provided as part of the Delta request There are a few new messages that have been added to the specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "specification It is the Delta token itself to represent the token, which will be a response from the slash top delta token endpoint. For the Delta query, we are using a post task pattern, which is similar to the dot search pattern that we have existing in SCIM which has a request and a response Next slide, please The request for Delta inquiries is built on the slash dot search As you can see, you've used the same task package And if you look at the example, it's, request, it includes the delta token provided by the initial delta token retrieved from the dot delta endpoint and any parameters such as fill or attributes. So this gives a delta token provided by the initial delta token retrieved from the dot delta end point and any parameters such as filters or attributes. So this gives us a benefit that all the search can be applied to delta queries as well and this question can be applied to Delta queries as well and this query then return a response which is a new response object called Delta and I will hand over to Danny to talk about the Delta response object Yeah, thanks, Anjali So yeah, the deeper level of details is, of course, in the draft but just some key things to call out about how the response is designed in this draft It's returned inside of a delta response message schema. It was, I think, the middle of the three on the previous slide The motivation for that versus let's say, treating it just as like slash"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "deltas or anything like its own endpoint separate from the resource endpoints, like slash users and slash groups was because I guess the delta or the changes being returned isn't really an object and we didn't want to represent it as such because then some of the rules in skim around how you represent a resource start making things a lot more complicated and really we just want a wrapper around the changed object um the uh guess the second bullet point the delta responses are there's like delta objects, not objects, but just explained that the delta objects, I said it again are, the Delta responses, sorry are returned inside of the list response style response just as any other list of results would be returned, and then that response object which we'll get to in a moment is sort of a bimodal object or you know representation where it can either return the, that where it can either return that sort of traditional or full state of an object or just the attribute level changes and there's two separate attributes inside of that delta response schema to allow for that And so we have a couple slides now that are sort of examples of how different sorts of changes will be represented So here we have a create by key things to call out our we have that changed resource ID"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "there's self-explanatory that's the ID in this case of the user that was changed what the resource type is, the change type. There are three, create, update, and delete And then when I mentioned, the bimodal methods of representation we're seeing data right here, which is the full representation rather than attribute-only level changes. And so creates, for instance, will always show that full representation because you can't have attribute level like, changes only on our creation Update the first you know four lines of the response are pretty similar other than change type is update And then we see that instead of the data, like attribute, we have operations Operations is multi-valued and there can be more than one operation that has taken place And in this operation, the the uh the name dot the given name sub attribute on the name like complex attribute on this user has been replaced, and the new value is deletes, the similar representation They don't use either data or operations because the attributes on the resources don't matter because the option has been deleted. So all you really need is that notification that it has, that the deletion has happened And yeah, final slide This is a complicated topic We've probably overlooked a bunch of things things We need people to review it. We need feedback We generally feel that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "this is a problem that needs to be solved in SCIM Right now, you just, we can't see why adoption of any sort of pool-based model of, you know, retrieving large sets of data via SCIM. They're just the way that the end industry sort of has implemented SCIM has been very heavily slanted towards pushing data from source to target And this seems like a massive blocker to the opposite use case of pooling data So yes, we need feedback, please And then I'll stop talking about it see two hands up in the queue Yeah, go ahead George This is really quick. I'm just wondering on the delete case if there isn't a need for metadata like when it was deleted, with that? be of help to the receiver? in the sense of its own processing? of data or things of that nature? other than just this user is no longer? present That is a good point I don't think any of us who are involved in offering this head thought of that, but thanks for the feedback This is Elliot Hi, Danny. I just had a query which is how far, how does this match up a normal restful HDP Samantha? Are we varying further from those? I'm looking at like delete, for instance, and if you're trying to do this in a restful call do you actually want to return anything as well question in that case? Maybe I'm just a skim novice in this point, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "we're looking at this now, right, in our implementations do we actually need to delete, can we just return a 200, for instance? for those cases and restful so Yeah. So in this case, you're not querying against a specific object say the, you know, get slash, you users slash ID value, Rather, the Delta query is going to run either at the root of the server or against a specific resource like users or groups and rather than I guess, either polling against the entirety of the directory or, you know, what whichever endpoint, and then having to list out the full list and compare to see if anything has gone away That delete that is returned as a Delta response message gives that final going away notification of, hey, this thing has gone away, or it's been deleted So is it targeting a specific resource or a group? of resources at this point? It's targeting the resource endpoint so just like slash users and it's not ever being used you're not ever specifying, you know slash users slash one two three like the idea of a resource. Okay. Then I guess I agree with George's comments in that case i understand it looks better Thank you Dean, did you want to say something? Yeah I wanted to make a comment George, I fully agree with your commentary about returning some time standing to make a comment. George, I fully agree with your commentary about returning some time stamp of when the object was deleted. And I want to do call it the use case, right? Because one of the use cases is to know when licensing should stop for a user being provisioned or deprovisioned from cloud services, right? So for auditability, purposes and being able to understand that training"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "it would be very helpful to have that timestamp mechanism in there My concern is that then it means you need to track the state of deleted objects and I don't know how SCIM implementation actually track the state of deleted objects. Are they actually deleted from the database, or are they just marked as B being deleted but they're but they still physically exist or logically exist in that database? So that's an open-ended question that we should figure out how we answer yeah i think janelle adams had brought this up way back when we were having these discussions Yeah, I think that's right Is it a soft delete, and a hard belief? I think from Delta quarries perspective yes if we if the implementers have to support returning, what records have to deleted, the implementers will have to keep track of some meta information about the deleted record for a certain duration of time Like that would be an additional implementation in order to support the Delta Quarry from a delete perspective. Is it is it? necessary then to make return, if we implement something? around the deletion timestamp, is it? necessary to make that uh optional because it may be implementation-specific? as to whether that can be tracked or not I just think it's something we need to keep our eyes on That's a good point If this should be made optional or kept us mandatory however if we don't make it mandatory then the way to retrieve the deleted objects is what has then Danny mentioned that you have to retrieve all these sources to know what has been deleted This is true Yeah. All right. Well, I look forward to giving the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "to read and providing feedback in the near future Yeah, I was going to say Anjali is the next step Should we ask for volunteers to read the draft and for provide more feedback? We can certainly do that Definitely, that would be really helpful So can we ask for some volunteers to review and provide feedback on this draft? I'll volunteer Thanks, Dean. Can we get a couple more? George Thanks, Elliot And your name? David. Just so the note takers can capture it All right. And that is all we had. Great You have three volunteers salute to them yep thank you to the volunteers. Look forward to reading feedback great All right Who was next? Give me then So, Phil are Jen? I can't Is she on? I'll stand over here, is it? Jen, we can't hear you We're back to that problem, Deb We've been having problems with Meetecho So just here So do you mind if he gets started?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "Thumbs up oh yeah she said that's fine Actually, I have to give you the mic because I'm an offer of this. Yeah, that's fine So I'm Phil hunt now from Independent Identity, Inc independent consulting I want to thank Jen, first of all for putting together the update We're just nearing the end So let's go to it with the next slide I think I got my audio to work Can you hear me now? Maturity of the draft. Yeah. Oh, we can hear you now, Jen. I think that'll become clear very shortly So, just a reminder what is it? It's based on the security event token, and we're defining a set of events that can be put together based on a security event token format and you normally use them along with the set transfer protocols are put together based on a security event token format. And you normally use them along with the set transfer protocols, RC 8935 and 8930 and what this does is it enabled you to share asynchronously notices about changes that have occurred in a SCIM server or if you're a SCIM endpoint or you want to receive events asynchronously, you can do that. We've also included in the draft the ability to do ASICT request completion A couple of people in the room said they had cases where a SCIM protocol completion might take hours So is there a way to have an event to say, okay, that prevents request is now done? So that's now in the spec Basically the two broad use cases, if you're talking about skim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "to skim endpoints, whether in domain or across domains, you could use it for resource replication, or you could do what we call provisioning coordination which is a more loosely coupled thing where you share with information. This entity has changed, so you might want to do something about it and if you need more information you can call back and do a skim get to get the raw data if you need it So that's the two use cases. Basically, you have events for each of the that mirror the SCIM protocol So if somebody does, if SCIM receives a create request and it processes a request request, the server would issue a SCIM create event that echoes that for any interested parties. So next slide. So in draft fall, we removed how events are done delivered. I sort of put that in originally because people weren't familiar with the security event token set of specs and how that works So that's not really normative, so that's been removed We added more definition to the version tag and it lines up with the original's RFC 76 for Skimp protocol section 3.14 which describes what an E tag means to a SCIM resource so now when an event has been issued, the final state of the resource is reflected in the version tag that tells you what it is And that could enable you if you wanted to do a further skim protocol, request following that to do an HTTP precondition request if you want to say okay, do this update if the E tag matches so on and so forth We've updated security considerations modified some attributes syntax. I've got to look up, I've forgotten what that one was Now we're into final"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "edits and clarifications and added a reference to the SSF spec over an open ID In that regards, it would be great to have a side meeting about SSF and how that can work and what are the limitations of SSF at this point because SSF still needs some changes to really work with SCIM. One of the issues with SCIMs is that SCIM tends to be bidirectional. A SCIM server can send events. You can also want to receive events, and SSF has some limitations But that's in the space now as a non-normative reference. So that if people want to look for, okay, how do I implement this? What are the people? I need? There's the set protocols specs. There's SSAP for management and so on and so forth. Next and I think that's it so the next step is to call for working group last call, we believe Yeah, we also called for it on email like a couple weeks ago And didn't have any feedback that came in since then Correct Tony, do you want to say something? And that's it I don't know how much time we have left Tony, Natalie. So, yeah, I didn't see anything about time about time span So things take quite a while from a security event standpoint. And what happened? if, I didn't see a time value of, you know how long, it's going to take a while to process and what happens if something else happens in between, can I time out this? particular event? so this that may or may not happen but i think a time out this particular event? So that may or may not happen, but I think if you're asking, can the client time out? Or can it be state, is there a timeout?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "value for it? Um, that would be, I didn't see it in the spec, so. I think you'd have to go back to the age out or can it or can it be state is there a timeout value for it that would be I didn't see it in the spec so I think you'd have to go back to the async HTTP async request and really what we were doing on the end of it is saying, if you issue an ASync request, and if the server supports it the server doesn't support it it'll just complete Yeah, yeah. So this is HTTP stuff, not SCIM really. So if it's So if it responds, what we've said is in the response, this is how you find out about the result. So that's what we've defined in the spec. And then when the event comes, you'll get the security event token event and in there is things like the time of event the time the set was issued and so forth so the requester knows when they made the request, the time of the event would be when it would got processed and then the time the event was issued. If it got processed right? I mean, if it got, yeah, so the result could be an error, timed out Right, and that's all specified I didn't see it in error, timed out. And that's all specified. I didn't see it in... Well, it would come out as an error if it timed out, right? so that would be a normal skim error or each protocol error you're expressing in the event. So there's scheme for that. Okay So if I remember it correct last time Mike wanted to wait to before working your best call to get some more people pack about the SSF and SCIM events relationship. Do you feel like that has now been? I don't see a normative relationship because all we're doing is defining event types. The issue with SSF is when you get to transmitting it RFC 8935 and 8936 are the physical transport mechanism SSF is really about how you man streams as a logical entity where you're going to use 8935 and 8930"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "to do the transfers so I don't see a way editorially that SSF is a requirement in any normative way. Yeah, I guess my question was more, do you feel like the, the discussion is with the right people? As far as I know, it's resolved, but I would have to ask them to comment, to be fair I'm an officer. Yeah, the discussion is resolved the authors side discussion decided that it's good as non-normative non-normative Yeah, so this is Nancy as an author as well so we did discuss we did have some of discussions in the shared signals working group and the Open ID, but I think in part is why we removed the normative reference in the draft as well, was to ensure that we had that decoupling Okay Okay. Yeah. I mean, that was the last thing we were waiting for before doing the work group and I think if anybody's interested I I'd love to have an SSF skim side meeting because I think it's too long to discuss here, but there's sort of some architectural concerns and that networking concerns to think about that I think SSF could grow into it would make skim end points much happier But that's an SSF issue. It's an SSF issue and it's not really related to this working group, I think I agree Yeah I have to walk all the way to the mic to just say I'm interested in that side me walk all the way to the mic to just say I'm interested in that side meet. So is David Brossard just to record that he's. Sounds great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Thanks, Atul. Thanks, Dave This is Dean Sachs I too would be interested in that side meeting meeting No, we haven't, so just do that or do you do that? You can we do that? Yeah, you can go ahead and schedule a site meeting. I can help if you want but it's, they're not, they're not chair run Yeah Okay, that's it. And then just get your re-announce it Okay, so for the rip people um yeah Phil's gonna organize this I meeting about SSF and SCM events I do want to just be very clear for everybody who's interested in that side meeting, do you feel like it's okay now that this is decoupled that we can move? skim events to working group last call? and it won't be blocked on the SSF really? relationship? Can I ask a question? first? SSF, those people are here or no? There's a few. There's a few But is it a community that's ordinarily not here? Yeah, it's an open ID. So the problem with side meetings here? is technically you have to be registered to be involved in a side meeting. If you did an interim you do not But it's really not just skin No, no, no. So if you have an interim, you can invite all your SSF people to come and then they don't have to be registered for an IETF. I mean, you can get a few waiver for a remote, it's super easy, right? But why? put them through the aggravation? aggravation? It's not all of them are here i i don't think there's anything wrong with doing a side meeting for the people who are here, but you may want to also then do another meeting after this week"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "The question is whether you want to, the question is, are you going to leave out people? and are they going to be upset when you do it? Yeah i mean i don't have i don't have skin in this game right so yeah just phillip hunt has for my two cents, I think it would be useful to have a meeting for those that are here at IETF and then that would help set the stage for a you know, should we have an official SSF work group SCM co-meeting or something down the road. How do you think, a tool? Yeah, I guess I think it will help to have a side meeting, but I think I can think of a couple of people who are not here who might be interested in it so it will be good to have an interim meeting Okay, why don't we do this? Why don't we? don't he use this time this? side meeting time to like make a plan for what you want to? do in an interim discussion, and we can do a we can do an interim meeting in a couple of weeks weeks okay Okay sounds like I didn't hear anybody object to moving to working group last call despite having this conversation going on so we can do that call on the list as well I will do that call on the list yes great all right okay so on to our last one mr. lear I don't know, did we? did we have their advice? Yes Oh, yeah, they were Okay, so now I'm standing between everybody and games Or I says, it says, Yeah, there's a SSH, open SSH side view. I think the games are going to be a lot more fun"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Okay so this will be very quick. Essentially, we've been on hold This document has been on hold waiting for reviews, and the reviews came in just a little bit before I went on vacation, which I have been for most of July I'm coming in for just this week and then I'm back on vacation a little bit. But we got an excellent security review really, really well done by someone who knows absolutely, nothing about SCIM actually Or IOT. Or IOT. So he really stuck his neck out and he did a really good job. One of the challenges, with SCIM IETF draft device model the document is that people in this were reading it as though there was an interaction, with an IOT device, with the actual device And that's not what the document is about documents about provisioning the network or the network infrastructure or the administrative infrastructure for that device So the reviewer went off in a direction about, oh my goodness, we need to have certain protections here between the device and the, and the reference infrastructure. So with that said, to me was that we didn't do a good job in the introduction And so we had to clean up the introduction a little bit We have an update ready to go for that We also had to clean up security, we have to clean up security considerations just a little bit more for the reviewer. And second, the last thing he asked for was a cleaner use of how we're going to identify certificates where we're And second, the last thing he asked for was a cleaner use of how we're going to identify certificates where we do identify certificates by you know the do we do you use subject do we use serial number he would like a little bit more clarity on that and he had some opinions about that. And because the was just as I was going out on vacation, I haven't really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "parsed through that. But I happen to know some people, and I'm looking at Deb, and I'm looking at Nancy, who are really well versed in certificate So this draft actually is probably worth a just a couple of emails between us to make sure that we are doing the right thing in terms of and the reason we mentioned certificates at all is that we need to be able to identify and uh uh clients that are coming in by certificate as part of a provisioning step for application management So we'll go through that a little bit in the draft, and we can do that in email But the draft is not really ready for an update yet until that point. And it's not really ready for working group last call until that aspect is fully resolved because if we try the working group last call and even if it got through here your next reviewer would not be happy Let's put it that way, even before it got to you. And then you'd not be happy too so we want to get that right. This is an interesting question Would you want the same reviewer to do the recheck, or do you want it? I want the same reviewer to recheck on this part Yeah, well, I'm just looking at you, Deb you know, as AD Yeah. Unless you don't want that the thing to do would be to check the issues that he's addressed, and this was an early review right? And I don't think he's, he may not be the best reviewer for the next round, but I want to, I want to address the points he made this round and then get another reviewer to make sure that we've covered the ground Anytime we're dealing with provisioning, I want to be really sensitive to the security aspect. So extra review here. We're not in a tearing hurry. You know, is actually a good thing. And so, but what I would like to do is do that as part of, at the same time of working group last call, we do the next review round So just between you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "and me and the fence post, he asked whether he would be the next group he be the same review or if he asked for reviews again i'm sorry second he asked if he would be the same reviewer if you ask for another review. And we said yes unless you don't want it. In which case, you turn it back The only, so the only reason not to use the same review That's fine. We just need to tell Tira. Yeah okay yeah the only reason not to use the same review is that he felt a little bit uncomfortable because he doesn't know much about Skim. Yeah perfectly reasonable. Like that, so we'll work through this together. You know, I just want to make sure we get really good review on this because it is a security sensitive function There's a particular aspect of this work that I think is important to consider from the security area, which is that these provisioning objects contain credentials. So that's something I just want to call out. It's something that I think requires a little bit more thought just as we're going through it. Now these credentials are things like Bluetooth pass keys, for instance and things like that. But, you know, we thought just as we're going through it. Now, these credentials are things like Bluetooth pass keys, for instance, and things like that. But, you know, we've been talking through that in the SCIM group for about a year now and but I want to make sure that people are comfortable with the understanding of what they're seeing. I mean, you're still going to complete to, I can't remember his name's Saturday group for about a year now, but I want to make sure that people are comfortable with the understanding of what they're seeing. I mean, you're still going to complete to, I can't remember his name's satisfaction back and forth. So, Deb, what we did was we did an early review. Yeah, I saw that I looked. I looked at the review, too So it goes towards, Elliot needs to address those, but then when we do the real sector review. It's up to you guys then at that point is to how you like that? We just tell Tara to assign somebody else That's pretty simple. And you got a PKI guy to do that review so yeah so the PKI guy the PKI is what we really want to fix now. Yeah so you get the right guy for that yeah because he that's what he does It was a great review. I really appreciate it. Yeah yeah i was really glad to to get the review. Though, as always right before vacation anyway, that's pretty much it So that's all I have. Six-week vacation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "yeah so so that's all I have for this time we expect what I'm hoping to do is work through that review and have a new version by the middle of August And what we'd like to do by the middle of August then is start the working group last call on that document at that point once we have that updated document. Is that okay with that? people? I think I want to review it again You want to review personally you mean well whoever will be shepherding it but yeah. Um, so again. You want to review personally, what you mean? Well, whoever will be shepherding it, but yeah. Somebody was going to speak up as well Thank you ahead, Monty Are you ready, Monty, ready to review it again? Yeah, well, yeah, and I probably have similar feedback, so. Okay Okay, and Kathleen? You did sign me up to raise Kathleen? Okay, yeah, if we could do that like, we'll try, in fact, I'll try and bring you in as early as we can but we do want to start that working group last call at some point soon because the document is reasonably stable, modulo the security review at this point, so we're thinking it's time to get to the next step I also requested an IOT review. Yeah, the IOT Directorate gave us NITs nits and um so we did incorporate the NIT changes in our working document but I haven't published that in the update I haven't updated the document yet And I appreciated both reviews All right, and really that's it and so yeah so the next steps then will be update the document. Monty, you're on the hook for review And Kathleen's on the hook for review And you're on the hook for review. Okay. And then once the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "are complete, if there are changes, we'll make those changes and then we'll do working group last call. Is that all right? Yep all right thank you very much All right. So that clears our agenda items Are there any other orders of business that anybody wants to bring up? Going once Let's see, anybody on the remote? on the remote. Okay we can give you seven minutes back How about that? All right thank you everyone we will close out the session session Thanks, Pam All you need to do. Yeah so Pam the most important thing to capture on the minutes are the action items and the point of contention She does an often job job Peter, we're giving one word in school job Peter. We're giving one word in school hours. I figure you"
  }
]
