[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "It's probably a serious intention It is time. We're just gonna give our technical advisor a moment to find us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:17",
    "text": "you can get started And probably pressed for time. Yeah. I think we're gonna go ahead and get started. And do at least, preliminaries so thanks everybody for coming to the, ops meeting at IETF 118. N Next slide, please. Yeah. Note well. This is an IETF meeting it does have IETF meeting policies attached to it. So that by participating in this meeting and in the IETF, you are ring to follow. IETF processes and policies, And I think our scribe isn't back to this computer yet, is he? No. But we don't need them at this Yeah. Just just I am detailed as oriented. I'm sorry. That was So, as for the usual, engagement in the IETF IETF work please do acknowledge that any written audio video and photographic records of meetings, maybe made public, And, there are more informational documents of available to you to understand all the details about the above, including our privacy policy next slide, please. Yeah. You've probably already made some near, near, gotten on to most of these particular details,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "But do please sign in to the Medico client, even if you are here in the room two reasons. One, because it will help us with a head count to know how big a room to ask for next time and 2, because we will be running the queue using need echo because it makes it nice to make it and even even playing field for both in person and remote participants. Speaking of remote participants, and I know that most of our remote participants are old hands of this. Please make sure your audio and video are off unless you're presenting during this session. Next slide, please. Yep, some more resources for the meeting week. You've probably already found the agenda but there are also resources should you find you have technical issues and here are some useful URLs. Great. Perfect timing. So this is our agenda. And our Scribe Volunteer has returned. Thank you very much to our scribe Volunteer. No. You're off the hook this time, but We didn't think of it soon enough. Normally make the last person So, it also confirms you're calling It's not what I said. Which is why I texted you Berlin 34. Bob Spark, Anybody find a jacket in here, like, the one on that chair? Sorry. Ready then. And I said earlier, we will be using the meet echo queue for handling the the mic line, so please do make sure you log in and use that queue mechanism. So if our scribe is ready to go?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Thank you very much. Notate your Yes. Greek will get started then. Any vashes to this agenda. Alright. Not hearing any when we move right along, so the first item up is the, an update on the media for extended reality applications on edge computing infrastructure. Meaning if you're ready, please go ahead and present. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Yeah, Rena, do you want me to run the slides, or do you wanna run the slides? Yes, please. Could you run the slides? Alright. Okay. So hi, everyone. My name is, Rainen. And I will be presenting an update to our draft this is a joint work with Agba Raymond. Next slide, please. So we have added a new section 6 for security considerations. We'll talk about this addition in the next few slides. Next slide, please. We'd like to thank Stephan Wanger for supporting this document. In a communication, Stephan pointed out a need for a section discussing security considerations for the presented use case. So in the newly added section 6, we briefly present operational security considerations of our use case. A more detailed analysis of these considerations can be found in the references. So there are essentially 2 dimensions of the operational security first of all, is device related operational security issues. And second is the edge server related operational security issues. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "In section 6.1, we discussed XR device related operational security issues, First of all, the devices themselves could be stolen or tampered with and so the operator of the use case should not rely on the integrity of these devices. Secondly, the XR devices are already running computationally intensive tasks that drained battery power and so the operator must carefully select an appropriate cryptographic system for communication that takes these issues into consideration. Finally, the operator must avoid deploying security protocols that rely on the to that server. Next slide, please. Next in section 6.2, we discuss edge server related operations security issues. The operational security considerations for Edge the presented use case are similar to those for cloud data services. The US's National Institute of Standard technology details the operational issues of security for such data centers. The edge servers in our use case run as a private cloud of the operator So the operators will need to consider physical security of the servers the desks, routers cable, over, etcetera. Delete the XR software being deployed will need to be audited for software error categories such as insecure interaction between components, things like SQL injection, risky resource management and poorest defenses. Finally, security maintenance of the XR system running on that servers will require monitoring and analyzing logging information performing regular backups, recovering from security compromises, regular testing of system security and using processes to patch and update all critical software And monitor and revise the configuration as needed."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "Next slide, please. So of people have So people have entered sorry, Brandon. A couple the queue. And I don't know. Are these questions that should be addressed at this time, bends running to the mic. And so is Eric. So, yes, if we can take a couple questions. When? Sure. Yeah, Lundin. So, Those are good security things, but I do wonder if they are very broad and sort of maybe a little bit off topic for the main document. What I'm worried about is as we try to go final and send it up, I don't wanna have the document held up because people are debating the security aspects of, like, managing server farms and edge compute resources and stuff like that. I mean, Oh, a question I have. When I when I heard it, it's like, it's know that if it's wrong, but everyone's got an opinion on it. It might extend the document review it's not core to the document itself. So, Glenn, what would you suggest? If you know, my Glenn, because I get a very similar thing. Is regarding the responsibility for mops. I think this section is going too far. We don't ask this to the because you do augmented reality, describe what the Ceramic Farm is doing or whatever. Asking what you need to put is only the difference between the usual streaming thing. When you're assuming, normally, you and then you are streaming augmented video. If you say there is no more security risk, then not my streaming, a thing. This is correct. What I say I have to to hear you at the Otters, and it's enough. Well, right now, well, maybe you can There's the reason why I'd get you Okay, Brandon, do you do you, have enough data to take that on board or Does anybody else have a different perspective?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Yeah. I could cut the section short and just say that the security issues are similar to what other streaming applications face I'll leave it at that maybe. What does the working group think? And getting the two people who were at the point up are nodding. So it sounds like that would address their concerns. And I'm not seeing anybody disagreeing, walking around the room, Sounds good. Sounds good. Okay. So we'll do the necessary update. So so Okay. Did you have more that you wanted to cover, or and I think, that was quite helpful. I think the concern was about this section on on how detail it should be or it should not be. So I think that is clear. Besides this, the rest of the issues are, I would say, a more formal issues like adding an INR section and to adding it. So, I think from our end, we are satisfied with where it is now. The, I, I think that's right. And, and we had a note from Stephen Vinger as the, the document shepherd before this meeting saying that he was satisfied with with the updates So I think that the next the next step is to shorten up shorten up the security consideration section, which you've just written, written resubmit that and then we can move it along We can move it along to submit it to the ISG. In 2 weeks. Kyle is pretty emphatic about it. Yeah. Uh-uh. Yeah. I I saw Kyle's hand. So sure. Uh-uh, we'll do. Thanks. Great. Thank you very much. Yep. So next up, we have Lenny Juliano. With the other working group document?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:07",
    "text": "Great. Thanks. I've just, requested to share Should it go now? Got it. Okay. Can you guys hear me okay? Yep, it's all good. Great. So today I'm just going to present, describe, just, updates on the draft. So from we we added, from from versions 1 to 2, and we discussed this in, 117. Added a bunch covered a bunch of areas that were previously brought up as kind of gaps and missing, mostly layer 4 things. So things like reliability, available bit rate, authorization encryption, those kinds of things. This architecture doesn't, create anything new. We just had pointers to existing work. There's lots of work in the industry, that that addresses this. And, this architecture is somewhat agnostic to it. The since since 117, not much change, we just fixed the typo, other than that, We the the the next but based on feedback, you know, it seems to be stabilizing. We if if there are folks who think that more should be added to it, We can look into that. Otherwise, We'd like to ask if if it's ready for working group last call. So, anybody have thoughts for or against getting this ready for working, calling this ready for working group last call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Everybody thinks it's a grand idea to have us though, for working group last call, and we'll read it and send comments in. Supported I think I I will use this moment to say as a bit of a public service announcement that One of the things that we always have a challenge with, and I don't think this is unique to the ops working group is that when we put working group put documents to breaking group last call, and then there's no discussion of it on the list is doesn't say much to the the document Shepherd or the ISG about what what this what this document is really worth. So a plea for comments to the list about the document when we when we put it out, Are we allowed to do Yeah. No. No. I know we we that. As opposed to the show of hands. Yeah. So yes, no. Covenant. Now. Rather it will be interesting to us z you know, if they could turn on their plate, 2, I don't think that works. Alright. So, if you believe in the room, and then we will do then you'll be allowed to vote on your phone. And, yeah, you can come and vote differently. So, anyway, come Do you believe the 3 d n document is ready for working group last call? That's pretty faint. Do you not think the document is ready for last call. Okay. With the with the person who thinks he's not ready. Care to share What do you think?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "Apparently not. Alright. So And while Eric is working his way to the mic, So I simply said it's not but I don't mind if we go we can go plus code, of course. Right? So it's just my voice. I still have to read it. Right. So I couldn't have a sensible opinion on it. So that was more that was more of an abstain than a no. Yeah. But her main yeah. Yeah. Somehow. Yeah. If you want to go there, yeah. Sure. It's not ready until the says So the, So just to begin, we can do a pretty good task Yeah. I will know to think about the show of hands tool is that it defaults when when I when I launch a show of hands. It defaults to you having no opinion. So you have to move yourself out of no opinion. So since we've all logged in to the tool, please do feel free to update your status of you think it is ready for last call, not ready for last call, or leave yourself a no opinion if you really have no Yes. Yeah. Alrighty. And I Yeah. I think we will Close the close the vote in 15 seconds. If only I had something counted down seconds. To to Do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "Did you do do to Thank you. Thank you for believing that I had too. Alright. Terminating. So there was another no besides Eric in that vote if anybody would care to share their perspective on, why they don't think it's ready for working group last call, I'd be happy to hear your hand up and put yourself in the queue, please. Again, apparently people don't wanna share today. They want to keep their opinions to themselves. Alright. Long in the short of it is I think that really is enough support to at least launch the process of working group last call. So, I think that's good news. Thank you, Lenny. Unable to attend today because he's involved in the nomcom is Chris Lemons who has volunteered to be the Dockney Shepherd. So, Yep. So we will we will Move ahead with us. State. You very much, Lenny. Thank you. I Yeah. Hi there. So Claudine And Comcast Sanders Universal. You know, one of the things we do in ops is we provide connection to what's going on in the industry. Usually, I give an SVTA update, but, Jason, Tupelo from SPT's executive director. He's here this week, so he's gonna do the update. I am gonna talk about a very quick event that we held yesterday here. As a side, event"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "At the IETF. Hotel? It was not an IT meeting. It's something called Yana. You're not alone. Did one back in 2018. And what it is is I think we advertise it to this group if you're on a mailing list. Had a time. People come together. Let's talk about video and and build a community. This would be awesome if this works. Is the problem with did this last time too. Do two things at once. Yeah. Or or just next slide or next slide, you should not go in. Alright. We did this back in 2018. Just out of the ICF London meeting, if you remember. Yanna, if you want to understand that it is not a PowerPoint thing, but we did presentations it's also bringing people together to talk extensively. We're trying to recreate the best hallway conversation experience you've ever had other communities. And we talked about how, back in the day, video is really simple. Just have a few things that connected And then life got really complicated. You got lots and lots of damage yet to deal so a lot of stuff we talked about was the different standards and different aspects of things we need to look at in the ecosystem. And this is back in 1984. Do you want more information? There's a website with a report from the 20 at the 2018 meeting. And there's gonna be a report come out of the meeting we had yesterday. Will be circulated to the attendees, but I think if chairs will allow us. We'll also post a copy or pointer on the mops list so people can go read it themselves. And that's it. Yeah. I know the pronged edition. We had 4 talks. Guillaume talked about securing system delegated streaming. Let me talk about 3 d n. So ill, ill, ill, ill, ill connection. Ravid Hadar talked about a quick POC with some interesting quick data, that was coming out of the SVTA. And in in it will ultimately be published and and allow us to understand the impact of quick for streaming, what you need to consider. Finally, Will Law came and talked to us about a bunch of interest and stuff, including some CMCD work and where it should be, advanced."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "There will be an after report published. It'll be published on this website, you know, 1123.org. Won't give people a heads up when it comes up. And that's it. Thank you. Any questions or comments And if you didn't come, You missed out on some good food and beer because we had food and beer. And we had lovely people. Thank you, Glenn. Dating, Hey, JT, executive director of Streaming Video Technology Alliance. I way over there. Like Glenn said, I'm gonna do a quick update here on SPK stuff that's relevant to ITS. So really quickly, just some general updates we actually announced the new streaming audio study group which is something that's a little bit bit outside of our purview, but we've been asked for quite a bit and We have some audio members like SiriusXM and Dolby. Elevated our players in playback groups or of our chairs right right there, Ali Beggin. He was very excited that gone from a study group to a working group. So now they're a official. We launched our segments. Our one day public conferences here. That went really great. We're doing it again next year, with Mile High video on February 14th. So if you're interested, go not a paper. And it's actually very relevant to this group. It's operationally focused presentations. Like, I had a problem. Here's how I tried to solve it and here were the results. Come a media library, so we launched our 1st public repo. Which is fantastic. You should go take a look at that project. Go take a look at that repo. The idea was, brought out by Paramount who expressed a concern about having to manage fixing functions across different versions of different JS players out in the wild. When they had an issue, and so that she said, oh, this is crazy. Everyone's implementing it differently. The common media library, a bunch of functions across JS players. That the JS players like Shaka and HLS can implement not gonna like some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "you. Was getting to that. No. You do not. Yes. It's our first public repos. So all you have to do is agree to the DCO, which is pretty standard fair for for public repos, and then you can contribute. So you can fork and clone and, and make recommendations. We're, running under, evident nickname for life. So it's managed by the SVTA working group, which is players playback. But we do have project leads who are active in the project. So KC and I could never pronounce his name correctly. KC O from Paramount He is running, point on the project. So if you have any questions, just go through GitHub and a ticket. We publish some really good open caching performance data. So If you haven't heard about the caching, It's really cool. Go take a look at it. Great democratized delivery across heterogeneous delivery networks yes, very scientific sounding for a group like this. But we publish performance data. From Verizon. So Verizon Exposed real world performance data of their open cashing edges. Against traditional CDN delivery and showed some significant performance improvement. So that was really cool. We launched a university, an online university. If you're interested in taking some classes, we launched with streaming advertising 101, kind of a primer on streaming tizing in the stack, we also launched CMCD 101. So that's a kinda like a hands on implementation, and we've got lots of planned courses coming out throughout the year. We launched a streaming video Wiki this year, So you can just go and search and find, and all of that is generated by collaborative work from within SVTA working groups. So peep the privacy protection group is the elevating and working on security topics, so cashing on networking network transport on protocol and networking. So all of this stuff bubbles up. So it's not a we decide what the definition of things are is that we reach consensus from the industry. And then lastly, we launched a document numbering system. You can now refer to our documents by SVTA. And a number."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "Which makes it so much easier when you're trying to reference something instead. It's like twelve word document title. It's just No. That's SVTA 10 12. Anyway, so of our documents on our website have been numbered, and now they're available. And quick and easy to find. Cool thing is you might already be a member and there's a bunch of people in here who already are. You have here, part of one of our member companies, you're entitled to come and sign up, on Arrow, which is our internet. So that's run by AMSL or AMS apologies. And then you can join working groups, join mailing lists, and get involved. And really quickly, our technical groups I won't walk you through all these. We have 11 now with the streaming audio study group. And really quickly, difference between a study group and a working group for us steady groups last for about a year, they try to figure out if there's a technical issue to solve. If there is, then they start working on it and we elevate them to a working group. So so so but we have a lot of groups that people can go and get involved in. There's a whole lot of projects that are going on and kind of talk a little bit about those. Yep. Again, we'll go through these. You can look at look at the slides Instagram month data tracker. There's a whole lot of documents that, that we've published and are in draft this year. So we've got a lot of work that's ongoing. And there's one in here. I put various for numbers. That's the configuration interface documents. I think there's 18 that are in the set, and they really define how to interface programmatically with elements of a network that need or require configuration CDN. So how do I send configuration information to that? Obviously, that builds a lot upon CDNI. And and lot of those have become RFCs and have been contributed to the c the CDNI working group. And then interesting projects, I wanted to show some projects that have crossover with IETF. So you'll see here again, just grab this from the data tracker, but you'll see projects that are related directly to CDNI's work. And so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Sanjay, who, is one of the co chairs of the CD networking group, works a lot in our open cashing group, And then we have a lot of folks that are in the SVTA and here, work with within CDNI. So, but there's also some stuff that's mops related. So, again, like the common media library, you know, measuring latency and ABR streaming. So, again, operationally focused can surns and issues and and things that we're trying to do. And then we do have some quick projects doing a POC, on quick and HTTP 3, just kind of understanding you know, what the performance looks like in real world test scenarios, and that's something Glenn mentioned that Raveed showed yesterday at Yana, which was which was really cool. And then, you know, we do actually have some arvrxr stuff. That we have been looking at as well. So it was interesting to see that paper that was just talked about and how we might have better coordination between the two groups and stuff like that. Go forward. And that's it. Thank you very much. Any comments, questions, suggestions for JT? I need a jeopardy, like, theme song. Please. Like, I feel so left out. No questions. Perfect. Alright. Thank you very much. So that brings us to the end of our formal agenda? I do have a question. I'm gonna launch it in the show of hands, tool, Just trying to get a sense of how many people who are participating today are planning to be at IATF 119 in Brisbane. And you can count that as I'm thinking mostly in person, But But We can take it as in person or virtual. And no opinion if you're not sure yet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:12",
    "text": "Alright. I think this is settling out part of the reason why I wanted to ask that was because come, if if if you've been doing the math and counting on your fingers, you'll realize that we have one document that that's about to go off to the ISG and another document that's about the under working group last call. So the natural thing is to be starting to look at new work and new things that we should be doing in mops. Maybe a little challenging and in the context of IETF 119, if if if if people who are engaged in the work now are not gonna be engaged in the working group session then. So, have to rely on our mailing list. Because that works well. No stop. So, I think that's something for the working group to think about. And since we aren't actually about the boot out of this room, I'm certainly open to hearing any thoughts on what are next things that we should be thinking about tackling in this working group even as sort of free flying ideas at this point. I would appreciate using the Q tool, but the floor is open. Ali, you look like you're trying to get in queue. Damn it. Alright. Yeah. Eric on this time. So Eric Link again, Just to remind the working group, that you don't need the draft really to present here. Better if you have a draft, but we are also in ops Right? Or one is there for good reason. So explaining a good experience about media operation is also excellent here. Thank you for that, Eric."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "Yeah. So I I I can see. I've got one draft I'm work I'm starting to socialize getting co authors on. Operationally, a lot of CDM peoples and networks, have identified that potentially we have an issue with mask because it it's a VPN related problem, but mask, you know, it's been It's a new cool kid on the block. The problem is that we have Clients that are on an access network that that that potentially have access to a very fast all on the same access network, cash, and they're being redirected because of the privacy flows. Up into potentially a cash on the open internet, which may be a less optimal cash. Access their content from. And so, there's been some discussion first to find the problem. So if people wanna help write that draft, contact me, we'll we'll write that draft to define the problem. And then talk about some solutions. I've got one idea I've pitched around, which is is there a means by which, the service because, you know, both cash is being talked to. The open internet cache and the on access network cache. Probably run by the same service. Same video provider. Could they provide a hint that goes back to the client, then the client can make a a decision different if it chooses to, don't know there's a lot of different ways to slice that cat. And and to talk about But, step 1 is if anybody's interested in helping me write that draft, to define the problem, Glendy, glendonascortenet comcast.com. Drop me a note, and you can be a co author. At least to contribute if you don't want your name on that thing. Fix, Thank you. And, and again, thanks, Eric, for the reminder that it doesn't have to be, even a draft plan. I think the I think it would be excellent when if you could share a brief description of that on the mailing list, I think what we probably have to do between now and the end of the year is really start reminding everybody that having ideas of things that we're gonna be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "digging into in, in I IETF 119 will be helpful. Then is going back to the micro Well, let's wait. So if anybody's remote, they can hear me. So, yeah, I think maybe the path of the list, is maybe I'll do a first really rough draft. Put it up there. That way people can get an idea of where it's going. And also sometimes when you see things, gotta go, oh, he got it wrong. I'm an engineer. I've gotta correct that, and that's a great motivation you know, people have FOMO engineers have fear of not correcting somebody else to get it wrong. Great. Thanks. Any other thoughts that people would care to share we declare victory? Shall Alright. Going once going twice. Thank you, everyone. And again, thank you to our notetaker. Day. In the town just it's just it's just it's just since it was a really terrible time to hear from you to travel So that it But, yeah, be awake at 2 in the morning or whatever."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "Hopefully got another complements and there was something that I was looking at. It 6 months. Of price Yes. Sort of transcribe it all"
  }
]
