[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "all right we need to we're waiting for the slides to refresh oh wait which slides are you referring to the dow no uh uh i'll i'll make sure that we get those if they haven't i'll make sure christy knows about that you so you submitted them as a request oh okay yeah just put it in as a request and uh you know on the meeting materials and we'll approve them in that way i can share them easy that ted yes i was uh speaking to lars off mike so i will be more careful about aiming to the mic when i mean to speak"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:07",
    "text": "you oh there you go thank you okay uh all right it is about that time or three minutes passed with any such luck we have slides yay slides all right welcome to uh gen dispatch for itf 114"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "um i am pete resnick kirsty payne is out in uh remote land for this particular one hi everyone i'm here just an ephemeral voice pete's gonna obviously lead most this session thanks pete so kirsty will be taking notes i posted the notes url in the chat please go and join her if you would and fill in any details if you hear them that she does not that's always helpful and we have the note well you should all by wednesday know this stuff but by participating here you are agreeing to the ietf policies and procedures if you do not know them please go review them there's a list of bcps at the bottom of this slide you need to be aware that by participating there are lots of rules regarding patents and patent applications that are controlled or owned by you or your sponsor and you're going to have to disclose such patents if those become an issue if you don't want to do that you should probably not participate you may have your photograph taken personal information may be shared according to the ietf privacy statement and that as a participant you agree to work respectfully with other with other participants and abide by our anti-harassment and code of conduct policies which is what i just said there we're trying to create maintain an environment in which people of many different backgrounds are treated with dignity decency and respect and so you're expected to behave according to professional standards and demonstrate appropriate workplace"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "behavior don't engage with harassment i happen to be a member of the ombuds team if you have issues with harassment please do not feel shy about contacting us if you are in the room uh physically here please do either use the qr code there or find the agenda page and please do log into the light meetup echo session at least you may use the full meat echo session if you like for everybody remote they will have done so already but that way you can put yourself in the queue for raising hands and then you become part of the blue sheets please do that if you are remote please make sure to use headphones and mute yourself appropriately in between speaking and not and try not to turn on your video unless you are speaking a bunch of links uh if you look at the meeting materials link on the agenda page you can download this stuff and find all the documents we're using and contact either of your chairs one mention with regard to chairs which we did not put in the slides as you may have noticed on the mailing list because of other things in particular lars punishing me by getting me to volunteer for rswg i will be stepping down as chair i think kirsty would very much appreciate a co-chair if you are at all interested in possibly co-chairing gen dispatch please send email to lars i will stay on until we find a replacement but not for too long so please get your name into lars uh help would be very much appreciated a reminder of the gen dispatch process gen dispatch recommends next steps for new work i hear some noises in the background is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "that okay just checking um gen dispatch recommends next steps for new work we do not adopt drafts ourself we do not do work on drafts in this room except to discuss them slightly so we understand how to dispatch them the possible outcomes include directing to an existing working group proposing a new focused working group asking for ad sponsorship if the ad in question is willing and able additional discussion or community development might be required and we might ask for that before further dispatch or we might decide to dispatch to the trash can as in the ietf should not take on this topic please when you get up to the mic state your name i will try and remember to introduce you from the cue list but if i do not please do state your name keep the dispatch questions in mind when you make your comments um we don't need to comment on the direct uh uh you know knits and pieces of the proposal but whether we should do something with it and if so what and please keep your comments uh reasonably brief we don't have a very long session if you are remote please remember when you you join the queue when you are called on please turn on your mic and if you like video so here is our rather short and easy agenda oh which didn't refresh oh well we'll get there um first well that was our administrative part lars is going to talk to updating the dow then we're going to have some discussion about namco eligibility but martin won't be doing that i will uh because there have been some changes afoot even this week on that topic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "and then we'll have a conclusion and summarize what we need to summarize any further things if there is time at the end obviously we'll have other business if people want to bring it up are there any agenda bashes that need to happen the stairs and your computer screens are delightful um then the next step will be let me get lars's slides up there we go just tell me when to move to the next one or actually you can do that from your phone can't you but i could do it that's fine this was off now it's on uh my name is lars eggert and uh i'm the itf germany general area id and i have two topics um first of one is uh how we're going to go about updating the dao in the future the dial used to be an rfc can you go next slide the tahoe so the screen down here has a curtain that makes you can't read the corners which is kind of cute um so the the dao was published as an rfc up until 2006 i guess um there have been five thank you five revisions um six revisions at a time and then we decided that that was too heavy way to process and instead we decided we're going to publish it as a web page and we published rfc 6722 to describe how we're going to do that and the intent was to have more rapid updates to the dao that started out well in 2012 we had three revisions but then it sort of slowed again and by now we've had done two more so if you look at the the counts it's not significantly um improved our rate of updates to the dao and so this is an opportunity for a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "different process i think um but it's also the opportunity for a broader discussion about maybe what do we want the dow to be next slide so there's a bunch of processes with um what 6722 says uh we should do and i'm gonna i put them in an email a while ago i'm gonna list them here but first although the dao is published as a web page now revisions still require isg approval and the isg reviews and approves many documents and we use the data tracker for that but the dollar revisions don't live in the data tracker so they're really hard to track and approve in a timely manner if you overload it like we all are um and it would be overkill i think to add bespoke tooling to the data tracker just to deal with our revisions um and craig guy's questions for community is does the isg really need to review these dollar revisions would it be better or easier if somebody else did so we'll see next slide another problem is that old data revisions are still available as rfcs because we never change them and unpublish them and that means they get indexed by search engines and people cite them because people like to cite proper documents over web pages especially like when they write um articles and uh things and so you know these old revisions don't seem to die which is a little bit of a problem because the contents of the tower change next slide then rfc 6722 is pretty prescriptive you probably can't read this but there's some text in section two that sort of talks about the specific urls where the tile lives and revisions that are under review shall live it has a process that again includes some urls and instructs the isg exactly how it needs to sort of go about publishing updates and then it also talks about how you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "archive the dao and again it's the url scheme so it seems it might have made sense at the time we published this 10 years ago these days this sort of restricts us a little bit in how we run the web front end so um we might want to change that and give the operations people a bit more flexibility next slide so personal view uh for what we could do here right and basically there's sort of two broad categories in my mind if there's a desire that the isg continue review dar revisions it would be awfully nice if we could like publish them as rfcs again so we can use the regular process in the data tracker to manage that review and approval if we decide that we want to do something else not to require the isg to approve these i don't really care what we do but it gives us a lot more options right and that's basically where i'm going to stop to have a discussion thank you stephan stephen wenger my first observation is that these two things are not mutually exclusive for example you could decide that every three years you publish an rc perhaps even on a fixed schedule and that rfc could say oh and by the way for updates go to this webpage document enthusiast i guess um so first point yes i'm somewhat horrified to see in 2021 http only urls like some point like yeah my browser is about to stop allowing those at some point so yeah that's being this prescriptive makes absolutely no sense in this day and age so i fully agree with you lars that's some that doesn't need to be this strictly specified like no one's gonna actually follow you or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "like no one discovers the dao by looking at an rc that tells you what the process for the dao is if someone's doing that they're not the target audience of the dao um but then my second point is on this discoverability and target audience i kind of think of the dao as the decodering of the itf the read this and you'll understand what the hell all these words mean and why these people are so strange but then i'm very confused because i don't know much about taoism and why is our decoder ring has a name that needs to be decoded itself it would be nice if we had this like front and center on with a name that is useful that people can understand what it is i know that the dao was a cute name back in the day but if our goal of this document is to help newcomers understand how we are maybe a rename could be useful barry lieber is up this is barry lieber and my uh now after david's uh comment mine can be very short closer to the mic please now that uh david has spoken mine can be very short i agree with that last bit of david's that we should be targeting this to beginners at the ietf and focus it differently jim reed thank you very much pete jim reads i think we need to keep publishing this as an rfc um because as you said lars this is how people make reference to the style of documents and so on i think it would be a key if we ended up having that being referenced through a url or something like that i'm also now keen on the idea of sticking stuff in github as far as the review process is concerned i agree an ieg review is overkill so i would maybe suggest that the chair of the ietf does that that's why you get the big bucks isn't it i didn't catch the last part is that the id the itf chair could do the review on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "their own that's why you get the big bucks so if it's if it's supposed to be in rfc on the itf stream it it needs to go through isg approval there's no other way to publish rfcs on the idea stream we decided long ago that that's the way we're going to do it karen o'donoghue just a quick reference on discoverability it's on the newcomers page it goes out in email to all of the newscomers and it's in the newcomers tutorial so it is actually sent to newcomers for what that's worth uh rob welton you're next in line robertson cisco so i don't think the ice team needs to get close to the mic i i don't think the isg needs to review something that's overkill i would personally like to see this on github and publish just as a web page and i think it's again the comments that barry and others have made that the focus of this should be to newcomers and i think trying to target this or even a collection of pages more towards that is better i i find this hard to read i didn't read all this when i came to the itf and i've managed i know i know other people have done the same thing all right uh ecker you're next yeah i guess i'd like to disentangle two questions um one what we have to apply to newcomers and two what the fate of this artifact ought to be um this artifact is not appropriate for the current era let me just put it that way like when people come people the way people come to organizations now is they expect to have information presented in a layered format with the initial page where the initial page that is easy to read and then you can go dive deeper and that's like how the web works now and so like the idea that they're going to wade through like pages and pages of like asking narrative with you know with like history of like the arcane arcana the itf that they don't need to understand to do anything at all like many finances and knitters is like i understand people are attached to our history and like for the dow to continue to like document those historical arcana and our history like it's a fantastic is like it's like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "good i've read john peterson's books on dnd i enjoy them this can serve that same purpose but for the purpose of bringing in newcomers you need something else and so i'd like to decouple those two questions i think it's fine for the dow to continue to be and some something that is published by publishers in rfc and that is reviewed by isg and people who think that that kind of history is important or attached to it and feel that feel like that's an important thing to work on should continue to do so but we should produce a separate set of artifacts which are targeted at newcomers that bring them to speed quickly and the way that people now expect and like that is web pages it's videos it's tutorials it's like all the material you go if you like if you want to learn how to use like you know if you want to learn how to like deploy something on cloudflare or fastly like that or like learn how to write node code right there's like tutorials you can read that and that's the kind of stuff material you need and we should like engage people on how to write the material and we should put it out on our website thanks uh don easley you're up uh hi donal he's like from uh future way technologies i guess i wanted to endorse at least periodic publication as an rfc and uh i don't know i'm fine with reorganizing things so that it's more top-down and has less discursive stuff throughout but more of the stuff you need most urgently near the beginning of the document and stuff and uh things like that but i i'm in favor of uh solid uh permanent written documentation and uh maybe uh people who are are likely to be successful in the itf can't absorb that kind of stuff so hang on i've got a follow-up question to you and there was somebody else at the same idea so can we talk a little bit how that would work in practice right so if you'd like say to do an rfc every three years would we then in the meantime allow the editors to push things to the web page without review by the isg and then after three years the isu reviews and what if whatever the isg disagrees and hopefully after three years the ietf reviews uh going through the isg but uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "i i think that uh maybe this working group review i don't know somebody else can review in the meantime but dispatch isn't chartered for that yeah yeah well you can always change that but i'm not gonna we will do nothing except this one thing or a new working group thanks don uh dave schnazzy again is me again uh web enthusiast um now first i really want to agree with ecker uh like i brought uh three three newcomers with me to this meeting uh i didn't tell them to read the dao first because like kecker says it is somewhat inscrutable um so having a better format that is what people expect is what we should do because we should meet people where they are if we're looking to have more newcomers which i personally believe we are um so that said if some folks feel strongly that this should be an rfc well the correct solution would be a mutable i've seen but uh i'll avoid the third rail over there um then yeah just have a thing that takes the website turns it into text and then have the ise publish it at once a year like get rid of as much process as you can we already spent our enough of our wheels and our time naval gazing over here and you know just having someone do it as opposed to spending hours and hours sounds like the right path forward i'd rather all of that time and energy be spent on making better tutorials for newcomers thanks and i'm going to close the queue in just a moment so please add yourself now if you want to get on the uh the bandwagon here uh we should have plenty of time andrew uh campaign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "uh yeah so just pick up another and tip the mic down a bit towards your mouth sorry is that better yes thanks yeah so pick you up under the number of points i i agree i think with what ekka said uh about the naming and so on uh that could usefully be modernized to make it more obvious what it's actually for the process seems uh not fit for purpose however looking at the stats on the slide it's only been updated three uh five times in a decade is that because of the process or is it because actually there was no need to update it anyway um so to be honest if it only needed to be updated five times the process is almost irrelevant even though it does feel not fit for purpose um assuming that it will be updated more frequently if the process was different then so tying it back to an rfc may be updated every three years to catch up um but empowering someone to sort of manage the the page in the meantime would seem like a good way of doing it um and maybe since it's mainly for newcomers i would suggest perhaps uh uh putting under the responsibility of emodia as a working group um to uh just keep oversight uh of the content in in the intervening three years would sound like a good solution didn't say that on the slides there is an editor team for the dao that is sort of maintaining it and and they are at least sort of cross reviewing each other's changes and i think it's been done in github now in a way that isn't congruent with 6722 but that also allows the community to see the proposed changes and weigh in and recently that's had has happened more frequently so we have that team and i didn't mention it yeah there's a whole separate conversation about github but maybe that's for another place um miria you're an action queue yeah me i could even so actually one point i wanted to make is about this like if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "they need to update and yes there is a need because it outdates very quickly there's things that are changing and just like not correct anymore but on the other hand no there's no need because it doesn't seem anybody actually cares about it so um and and like this is really not the right document for newcomers there's very little information that's helpful for newcomers when i was a newcomer the only information that i got out of this is that i don't have to wear a suit which was very helpful but it's a very long document for that and i agree with ekka it's not in the right format that like the information is easily accessible so this idea this is for newcomers we should just like completely forget about it so what's that what's the top down for um i don't know i'm like i also feel sad about this getting rid of it because it's part of our tradition it's part of our culture but on the other hand we will never get rid of it because it's it's published as an rfc and even it's if it's like historic or obsoleted or whatever it will be around people keep eating it so it will be there forever i think we should just do nothing and forget about it and not being able to get rid of stuff is also part of our culture uh and just to say georgios you don't have to stand there you can't take one of the seats we'll we'll call i swear i'll call jim fenton you're up next hi jim fenton uh i think there's actually at least two issues here one is the the structure of the document or what it says and and um you know is it like one long piece of text like it is currently or do we break it up into pieces or somehow make it uh friendlier and easier i think ecker had a lot of great points on that and then there's the other question of how we do uh uh configuration control on it uh it seems to me like something github or something of that sort is very well suited to doing this you you keep the history you it it accommodates you know breaking it up into a bunch of pieces that link to each other and so forth so i would i would recommend that we might possibly want to publish one more rfc that uh just you know supersedes or you know uh updates the the the latest one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "that was published that says go look go look here instead of in instead of for this text directly just so that we have something that people can reference although honestly i think we should be focusing on trying to make the the document as useful as possible to participants and if somebody wants to reference it fine but i don't think we should really have to focus on that dkg um hi uh i want to echo what everybody else is saying about this not being appropriate for newcomers for the class of basically all newcomers who might come to the itf i read the dao when i started coming here uh you know i thought it was interesting but people shouldn't have to there was a comment made earlier that people who don't have the time or the patience to read this kind of document won't do well at the ietf which makes it sound like this is some sort of hazing ritual and uh i don't i don't like hazing i think i mean i i enjoyed reading it myself but i don't like hazing and um i i have to agree with jim that we should publish a tombstone that points towards something that emo der can keep up to date that's actually focused towards the tasks that newcomers want to do and is indexed in a way that's accessible to people who are not uh greybeards jay it's so good that you're vertical enough to join us you're up go right ahead thank you um not actually vertical um so yeah i pretty much agree with myria and ecker and others that a lot of work went into this document it was marvelous in its time but that time i think possibly passed 10 years ago that just to break down some of the problems with it because i think people may not necessarily understand it the tone the way it's written you the newcomer is actually quite divisive in that um it's full of things that say you might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "think this but no actually we do this um which makes me want to run to reach out and you know each time i hear that one it's strangely enough it's a reference from some stuff that is nowhere else it's the only place that tells us how what the dots are on people's badges it's got a very odd set of content when you read it it's reasonably unbalanced in some ways and it's got a lot of folklore in it so i i think that we as ekka said we need to take a very different approach that is multi-layered i would not want to lose what people think is important in here the folklore and other things i would not want to lose the community input into these things those are vital so whatever structures we create going forwards are useful but basic well newcomers guides and taking things forward i i would i i to be entirely honest with you i cringe whenever we tell a newcomer to look at the dow it's going to put them off more than it's actually going to help them and so i really like us to take a different approach there thanks and and feel better uh martin duke uh martin duke google and enthusiast for the iesg having less work um self-interestedly uh so number one plus one to the uh keep it as a cultural artifact don't use it for newcomers um but the the two the two i think new points i'd like to make is um number one i don't think it's an actual like metric how frequently this is updated and it's not a problem that hasn't been updated in x years if it's fine it's fine especially if it's just the cultural artifact and the second thing is um regarding iesu review like it's an informational document so you just need one yes ballot to make it to to move it forward so it's i mean as an isg member i wouldn't necessarily feel compelled to review this document if i didn't care um which is i guess the status quo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "of which is the case for either like not rc versus rsc and given your points about just the ease of using the tracker and all that why not make it an rfc um just to just to simplify the paperwork without actually causing any more work for the isg thanks georgios yeah thanks sorry for staying in the in the queue your comfort not mine yeah i have a um some ideas on on what could happen um for example if you look at other sdos there are articles of associations that are very important for a certain sdo the tao is not hasn't you could not consider it to be in the same category but there are some topics like you know the operation of the work group and working group and uh the chairs and all these things that are somehow formalizing the way of how uh the process in groups and the leadership of the groups are uh have other document structures that specify those yeah 24 years but they are for some not there are some if you look into some sections are referring to some websites so i don't know i mean a little closer to the mic georgios they say they're having a hard time hearing you yeah so there are two types of information one of these for informal for you know for newcomers but other one other information that's more formal so i don't know if there is a way to to to make the selection and for the informal you know inform for the information that is only used uh you know by uh by newcomers i don't know i agree with uh with media and jay but for the formal one we maybe we should think fair further but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "there isn't anything formal in this document because it's an informational document so nothing in it carries any weight when it comes to the standards process it might explain things slightly differently but 24 18 is the thing that that matters when it comes to working groups in 2026 obviously for the overall process but i will point out that as jay said the dots are only defined in this document which is an odd thing right they're also on the newcomers orientation slides okay but i thought by leaning in that there is some you know some difference in information thanks uh west europe yep i i find it interesting that a lot of people that aren't newcomers are standing up saying that the document's not useful because they're no longer newcomers to a large extent you know there are oddities in it i will say that it is too long uh there are certainly it could be trimmed the fat could be you know trimmed we could make it a better document i think it's up to you know emodure to figure out how to fix it that being said with my guides head on we refer every newcomer to it and we've had a lot of people saying it's a useful document so you know i'm not there seems to be a discrepancy between this between the people that have been around a long time saying whether it's useful and the newcomers that have told me hey that's a useful document but it's you know too long um i think a rewrite is definitely an order karen waking up karen karen hello i i will say that i think one of the things we should do is on the thursday newcomer feedback session ask how many people read it and get their feedback on it i think that would be valuable data and i think that we can take on you know doing that as well but please don't get rid of it because i need something to point to it's it's they need to at least some briefing material and yes there's training slides and that might be good too but some document that people can read coming up even if it's a whole lot shorter and a whole lot simpler which would be a good thing i need something to point to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "peter thompson hi it's peter from desec so essentially i agree with wes and i'm quite new to the itf i would say i don't know a bit more than a year and i did read the tower and i did find it quite useful um so i don't know perhaps it could be a little bit more concise but i don't i don't think that requires a change in format then the second thing i wanted to say is that i also agree with what somebody else said that frequency and change is not a good metric for whether the format is right or for whether the process of updating it is right i think um the frequency of uh updates should correspond to how frequently we want to update it and i don't know how often we want to update it perhaps there is i take this off because my beard so um if you want to update it let's say three times a year and then we are not able to actually do that because of process then of course the process has to change but for example it would also be possible to combine updates and only do it i don't know every two three years because i also don't think it's very important that it's completely up to date i think things that change are mostly details and even if a bigger thing should change let's say we change the id structure or something um it's not so important for a newcomer to have that update immediately i think and yeah then if people don't read it i think it needs to be advertised better i think that's true for all kinds of newcomer material so let's say we replace this with something else let's say we have a video you know a set of tutorial videos and how the itf works or something like that then people wouldn't consume that necessarily either and it needs to be um more prominent regardless of format and if the the problem is that people don't consume it then we should um make it more prominent and if we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "trying to gather data like wes suggested for um who thinks it's a good thing of those who read it we could also ask the other ones why they didn't read it perhaps they didn't see it or they did see it it was too long or they did see it they didn't care and if they don't care then perhaps they wouldn't care about other material too thanks stefan so stefan wenger i just i dug through very very very old files of mine and uh i did a little bit of expert witness work on the side and i remembered vaguely that this was that a version of the dao was actually cited yeah um in a lawsuit and it's indeed true that was the what 4677 version yeah so don't suspect that's things that could be viewed as informal representation of process documents wouldn't be read by people who may have an agenda that's adverse to your employer's agenda for example and wouldn't be interpreted in a way that's adverse so i'm saying that for two reasons one reason obviously if we are if we are not maintaining this as an rfc we need a tombstone i mean that's that's a no-brainer but the other reason is don't take this thing lightly as it's for the newcomers blah blah blah no it's not yeah the people who litigate this type of stuff are kind of newcomers too and they put a lot of weight on or at least in one case that i've witnessed myself they have put a little bit of weight on this thank you all right sam you get the last word from the floor sam weiler not a newcomer lars thank you for the well formulated questions i heard some suggestions here that i really don't like namely that of snapshotting the updates as rfcs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "because i never want to go looking for a document and find two versions that look like they might be the most current right the rfc and the actually current one so i would say please don't go back to the rfc stream if you can avoid it i'm fine with saving the isg the work and if you need something less prescriptive than 6722 gives you as i think you observed you can ignore 6722 or go issue an update to it but please don't give us multiple current appearing versions to confuse people so i i have been trying to absorb whether there is some consensus about what the dispatch answer here is um i suspect that kirsty and i will have to go circle back and review all of the comments and the notes in the chat room um i mean yeah kirsty says uh uh you know there is some indication that people are in favor of materials for newcomers but not completely in agreement about what that what those should be um i think we'll try and discuss offline for a bit and see if we can summarize this uh do you have any further comments or did you get enough from that discussion want to see our summary first i'd like to see your summary because i'm similarly confused at the moment i need to read what was said oh yeah there wasn't any clear indication and there were lots of good suggestions of different things to do but it didn't seem like we were circling toward one particular one so maybe we have to boil down to a few sort of general suggestions and see where the group is pointing the other thing we might try and that we can do in parallel right would basically ask the editors of the dao to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "do a short you know half pager on what they would like to use as their process going forward because they're actually doing the work and and if that manages to you know capture consensus then we're done yeah that doesn't seem unreasonable to me okay um i think we have some work to do as as chairs and then we'll get back to the group thank you that's been good input so let me do a little refresh of the slides to make sure i have the most current and see if oops that's not what i wanted to do uh refresh there we go off on chair slides okay look at that things are updated all right so going on to the nom-com eligibility thing well let me first summarize where what happened this week so martin duke had uh written up a draft and had some discussion about uh plausible outcomes for changes to the nomicon eligibility for those who don't know the issue we have this experiment underway about dealing with remote participants and other qualifications for people to be um on the nom-com and of course now that we've gone back to hybrid meetings and this is going on for some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "period of time the question comes up well now we have to make adjustments to what we had said earlier um there was some discussion back and forth earlier this week a few people got together in a side meeting chatted for a bit and lars basically proposed that he would be happy with doing this as a working group a quick spin up spin down kind of working group that we've done in the past and so the dispatch question reduces more to does anybody in the room think it's a bad idea for lars to take that on he would still like our input so barry wrote up a quick charter proposal and uh you can see it here on the screen i'll give you a bit to read it over and we would like input on whether folks think this is a good thing to just toss off as a quick working group or have you know objections to such consider the queue open for discussion uh well ted's up there first so we'll let ted speak uh howdy i just point out that right now we use the non-come eligibility as eligibility criteria also for recall committees so i think we would have to clarify whether when something says only eligibility to volunteer for the nom-com we actually also mean all the other things that we use nom-com eligibility as a signal for uh or whether we really mean uh exactly this and only this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "i personally think it would be quite odd to have one for the nom com and a different one for recall committees not that we've seen one in the wild um but uh i think clarity would would be welcome here uh i do think that you dispatch your question sorry just to answer go ahead uh the dispatch question uh a short-lived working group certainly seems like the right thing to do sorry about that i was just going to say if you didn't see it in the distance barry gave you a big thumbs up when you suggested the change so anyway uh ecker you are next up in the queue all right just to add two things just to add a list of things it has to cover is also um uh recall signature eligibility not just recall committee eligibility um which i think it should cover all um uh saying they're the same the same it's the same essential electorate um i think this is this all seems fine um ordinarily i'd be here to like tell you that the 2011 was science fiction but actually i think it's achievable in this case um so yeah we've done a couple of really quick ones but yes um and just responding to both of those i i knocked this together just before the working group chairs form started in about three minutes so yes i left that out and that needs to be tweaked uh dave dude it's kenazi uh plus one to everything that's been said thumbs up do it make it happen great thanks uh rich sols you are not up enough um yeah okay everyone else it should happen um it's gotta happen really quickly because there will be data tracker changes and robert's probably only got so much bandwidth to do them and that's it and for those who didn't notice rich's orange dot it's going to be his problem this year so it would oh you're done yes you're you're yes you're out of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "loop now because you've already published the list yeah all right uh well you're going to be on next year's aren't you yeah so lars sorry go right ahead yeah larry sagar um i wanted to quickly get a sense of the the group whether we're comfortable with doing a a buff-less working group a fair question uh i see at least thumbs up in the audience uh does anybody want to raise a concern about that come to the mic put yourself in the queue we could do a poll but i saw enough hands go up that's fine and oh rand robert and russ both say no buff on the chat and olaf says plus one go ahead and charter looks good john says uh martin please go right ahead yes martin duke google so i just would like to state for the record that i'm i'm happy to be the author of the product for this um and for those of you who saw my gen dispatch draft i'm by by mutual agreement and the side meeting um i will strip out the criteria changes and use the 8989 criteria as a baseline uh so if there's any controversy you can save that for the working group thanks excellent and by the looks of the uh chat room there there is uncharacteristic happiness and agreement so uh i think we're doing well any other questions you have lars no not a question but um i'm also looking for chairs i'm specifically interested in some former nom-com chairs that might want to serve again and that have significant cycles over the next six months because this will need to be kept on track like we need an rfc before the next bum come cycle right uh good point uh suresh you wanted to make a comment volunteer you're volunteering aren't you suresh he runs back no come on up that's okay uh senator so i just want to make sure like i saw very chatter right i know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "it's quick um but i think it needs to talk about 87 13 instead right because the goal is to replace 8713 with this bcp not to continue 18 and 89 so i just wanted to make that clear it's like even reading the document it was not like totally clear that's what it's intending to do because i was trying to do a point update on 8713 but this would be probably like a full rewrite of that right so thanks yeah if martin if you want to just respond to that go right ahead so i'm by far by i'm far from an expert on this but my understanding was that 8713 addresses a number of nom-com issues and there's like a specific section like 414 that is about the eligibility and so 88 80 80 90 thank you uh specifically updates that but as experimental so we essentially upgrade that to standard we continue to update 87.13 okay i would point out that whether this updates a point in 8713 or obsoletes or updates 89.89 to update that point in 87.13 seems like in the weeds of the process so this is barry i i i will take the action to adjust the charter text appropriately and we'll pass it back by the mailing list before we go further so excellent um becker yes i just meant to say i'm quite confident that like between barry and mars they can sort out which things update something thank you suresh you have another comment no like my content is really we don't want to go back to the kind of thing where like the norm comes of us strewn across multiple documents like i think like barry kind of worked on it like with murray and gang to kind of pull all these things together into one place and i think we should try to kind of keep it all together so it's not hard for somebody to find these things that was kind of why i wanted to push for that like a full update rather than a point update appreciated uh this is being discussed on eligibility discuss um and and i think that is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "appropriate form to hash out what the charter should say um so yeah uh rich go right ahead okay i forget to handle it on eligibility to discuss that's great but this is a real small minor update for changes in modern global conditions like hybrid and remote so i really would hate to see us open up the whole nom com selection process hold.com process document i will read that as you recommend that the charter be very tightly scoped yeah martin duke uh google um yeah plus one of rich like 8713 covers a lot of stuff and if our scope is simply eligibility i don't think missing the whole thing is compatible with that suresh did you want to follow up on yeah no i i i fully understand uh rich's concern and martin's concern right like so uh it's kind of hard to find but i do understand like uh but uh one thing you've done is like kind of keep only this thing open for comment like that's probably the way to do it but i do understand the concern so i'm finding the way but like it i wanted to be easier to find all these things together in the same place that's it thanks maybe like a same bcp number going across this might make it easier as well but we can try that out too very good so lars i think summarize here i think what suresh is trying to say is um he's suggesting an update of um 8713 whatever the number is um but basically leave all other sections unchanged and unchangeable so so do it do another patch document but do a full biz but but charter it such that nothing else can be touched other than that one section that would also be a way forward but we can discuss this on the list i i would suggest that you being the sponsoring a d of said working group uh can take that as input well um good anything else you need on this no this was super i got everything i wanted and we'll go forward with this thank you yay team uh rich did you have a follow-up yeah i just wanted to know what elegy stood for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "you just wanted to i just want to know what elegy stood for and apparently it's time to leg be a little yes okay um all right well i think we are actually ahead of schedule if i'm not mistaken uh we well we have five minutes left um so i think the summary from that discussion is clearly uh at least in the room we you've got very good support for going forward with this working group as you know uh charter with amendments and uh very tightly scoped um we'll get that summarized for you and get that out in the minutes uh any other business in our last five minutes that we have not covered good a an actually productive uh discussion here thanks uh i just want you right i just want you're leaving right i am leaving so thanks because you had a pretty uh tumultuous term of things you had to cover much appreciated i i do this to myself from time to time um great well thank you all uh and and thank my co-chair for doing all of the background work that you all didn't notice that was going on in the background and we will get the summary out to the list as soon as possible confirm all of our decisions there and then i think in both cases forward to lars what the conclusions of gen dispatch were on the two questions thanks yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:18",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
