[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "foreign guys can you hear me hi key foreign foreign good morning hey um I can hear you can you hear me yep works okay obviously okay great thank you yep thank you back to you as well hey dick hi everybody so now this works yeah hey Hank and I was talking without realizing I needed to turn my mic on as well previously"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "new tools yeah all the all the hard things we learned last year basically banished [Laughter] wiped out of our memory after three weeks yeah it's like a clean sweep Blissful Oblivion while we are joining hey Roy um we need to make sure that someone is taking notes today could uh I can help out with that that that would be fantastic um getting starting to get familiar with the note-taking tools I hope I think like ideally everyone should add their names um to the participant list in the note-taking tours so because that's then obviously helps to keep track of who's in the call and who's not okay actually is that true isn't that generated automatically I think so I don't know how this works with interims though hmm okay well we can add it nevertheless anyway so if it's there twice it doesn't matter so I guess we have three minutes um after the hour let me also turn on audio hi everyone um saving bandwidth again um are you do you guys want to say something Steve no I'm just saying good morning okay excellent hey yoga yogis is back from practical excellent yeah hello everyone happy New Year happy New Year yeah yeah yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "I mentioned on the mailing list uh this is obviously our first meeting this year um and uh great that everyone is back from vacation and I hope you had a good holiday for those who had a holiday and we will continue will be left off last year and again I would like to remind you all that this is a official idea of uh working group meeting before the the rules that apply um but it's so that sense it hasn't changed since last time hey Ray uh oh I can't seem to see everybody at the same time oh it doesn't is it not work that way in gallery view You Don't See not everybody's video sharing it's I'm struggling with my background and thinking yeah all right I understand many of us turned our cameras out on to see it okay sorry about that okay to have the camera on and to see everyone uh everyone still looks the same as uh three weeks ago I also or two weeks um so uh so I I looked at the Repository uh to see what changes have been made since we had our last meeting and also we had some email exchanges over the holidays regarding the use cases um from the six door Group which I looked at and tried to distill out what the um main um sort of features were key features were and I posted that mail to the list and um I want to clean up the the repository a little bit the use case document is getting in a better and better shape so that's fantastic uh I wanted to double check whether the content that is there both the BR and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the issues are actually um up to date and and what changes have been applied so I think Hank you you should say a few words about the changes you've been making uh over the last few days yeah I can do that I can even turn on my camera so you can all see that the the new year was not life not not kind to me I'm already tired so yeah hi everybody um yeah this is my kid's fault so I blame it all the kids so there's that um yeah so a use case document um not a lot of changes basically harness I was addressing uh Euro video feedback um like uh why is section two there there's no content isn't that kind of Superfluous so that's gone um an example in A A A Primitive example on one of the uh consumer requirements I forgot actually which one it was but it was in your review another one uh you were asking for a such a specific uh guide that I think if you're crossing a line of use cases and went to Solutions uh territory so it didn't do that uh so unfortunately I put a fixes uh issue into the uh commit and therefore you're coming closed although only half the issue was basically addressed so I have to revive that again um it just was force of habit just fixes blah and then proof it was gone uh the magic of GitHub and so um so that's the things that I uh I address basically today uh it's all about your input um I think we can address open issues um they I appeal them uh like relate them out of your email and put them into separate issues on GitHub and and one of them is about the usage of the term trust so I think that could be a good agenda item for today uh if we have time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "for any other business and another item for any other business if you find the time uh would be um as tired because uh yogesh you might have realized that I broke with your style so now we have two items that is basically in style yogish and the rest of is raw like style Hank and maybe we can take the best of both uh worlds and and mix that a little bit so that we can uh make them look more homogeneous that which is basically lost now um also I have uh only today just in time he made Monty to schedule a uh 101 to uh uh the still the most important things out of his firmware use case uh especially as we have a favorite use case you have to uh separate the the actual you know use cases yeah both are firmware but they address the different uh um requirements I think so these are my three items the last one was Monty is uh TVD uh I think we will deal with that offline somehow these people will find some time I assume uh pending uh monthly availability yeah I'll always I just uh got through that saw that this morning and I'll respond to you with my times this week yeah excellent yeah for you it's unfair I can't uh expect you to reply until now basically so yeah I had like I had eight hour Head Start the time you suggest is unfortunate but I I can't make but I'll suggest other times I've got lots of openings this week so let me figure that out yeah just to add to um Hank's comment the template or the kind of thing which I was trying to follow was The Benchmark I treated from the document which Hannah said shared earlier in November last year regarding the requirements and then using the requirements to specifically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "identify the problems we face in the industry for taking a specific use case in the question so it's not going anywhere in the solution domain just to highlight the problem and take the draw the requirements out of it that was the idea behind the template which I used in my sections here yeah because maybe we'll have to have a 101 also just to get a uh a common understanding of style make a proposal here again so that the working group can like it or dislike it you know thumbs down maybe I don't know then we can some rough consensus about style and have that done and then then just go on uh we also have a I think a significant number of use cases already and now with the uh additional items from six store and I see Zach on the call I think you might have one or two uh that are actually uh distinguished or like different enough to be their own um maybe more I don't know actually um so from the from the case studies uh that was linked in the reference last time uh I think there's some overlap but we have to find that out so uh I think everybody who wants to uh so dick Brooks and I for example very successfully had these uh small work sessions for each use case that were very productive and very fast forward and I hope to do that maybe with a small uh participant group from from six store also so we can find the right place like is this distinct enough or is it its own item what do you think like have that it has a hand so forth that's right Hey sir sucks having audio issues but I'm uh I work with him on six star in this capacity as well and uh have more time zone overlap with you Hank so I'd be happy to collaborate on this um sure clue okay Joshua I will uh playing you down"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "on my task list then sounds good we can definitely talk about uh um like also the use cases the specific ones to see which ones um we should capture to have a little bit uh narrow it down um during the meeting today uh thick yeah I'd just like to say that Hank's uh participation my collaboration was very fruitful and I I do want to thank him for all the helping get the words right so thank you very much Hank uh I did send one other use case out onto the email list which I just put out there as a proposal of whether or not we want to consider it it's entirely up to the group but it's basically the registration of a of a trust score in the spirit of a missed consumer software label type concept thanks very much okay I added that to the list um another question for cleaning up the the repositories or at least getting an idea what is what the status is is um okay Joshua still has his hand up oh sorry yeah not anymore right ITF tools yeah uh hey John uh just realized that you are on the call as well uh hello to you um I posted the link to the Repository uh into the chat window I hope everyone has seen it but there's this final merch uh yogesh by you um is that still what is what's the status of this one is it orphan or like is this something that we should be closing let me let me think this should be we should be closing this actually no I've looked at it already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "I think um we have taken these changes in our new draft so I think um yeah this was the one when we were trying to merge changes from various places because of a rebase I think we we can close this okay uh since it's you are rpr I think you should double check and then close it um just to make sure that we I don't have sort of sorry Hennis sometimes the audio is not clear okay yeah now it is better again can you please repeat yeah um please have a look at the the BR and check whether it's uh it can can be closed because um yeah um okay um I also noticed Hank that the the write-up the draft write that has some to-do's in there at the end of the document um uh would it be better to move all the to-do's into the issue tracker instead yeah yeah probably yeah um I will put it on the list yeah some of them they are most likely outdated already so I've ever cleaned it up okay perfect um so I have three items which we um which we could do I should talk about today and maybe there are others I'm just trying to do a little bit of agenda bashing here uh that you you suggested to talk about the trust term um the six store use cases and also the new use case that dick had uh posted to the mailing list about the trust uh score um is there anything else we we should be covering the other things Roy your microphone yourself should be unmuted now so two things one is work back schedule to March um you and John need to figure out when you need things and and and how and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "second thing is should we start refining on the terminology document now that we're getting closer on the use cases and where when do you think we need to start spinning it back up okay good topics yeah anything else from anyone just a small update um I moved finally this year sorry uh the adopted architecture document to uh the uh ITF organization and frosted it with uh ID template from um from Martin Thompson so that is safe generating at the moment and uh I may be I made a small um some census call between the authors we want to migrate all the old history or do we have a clean slate start and everybody was basically our Clean Slate um I will uh if there are any substantial comments in the old repository I will move them over and point out to other contributors that we have moved to the that we have moved to the official um ITF org uh yeah so there's just a report for everybody are you going to do the same for the use case document uh no unless it's adopted um I think I think I would wait for that okay um what do you have uh since it's still an individual document you have a timeline uh in mind for submission because it's getting it's getting better and better like content wise yeah so I think uh so walking backwards for March as what I just said I think uh the use case document uh should have a ongoing adoption call before the March"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "meeting I think that is realistic we have uh substantial content that is six star Monty and uh Dick's uh news newest item and and if and literally if we have that we have critical mass already so if we have that in also and then homogenize the style I think that is totally up for adoption call and then we can do this as working group item I mean the course of procedure won't really change I think everybody is who was involves everybody a lot of people are involved already uh uh would still contribute as soon um since you also brought up uh John you are you raised your hand not derailing that bit because I you know I'm most motivated for us to finish the the work items in flight but just um before I got kicked out of date's track again uh I think the question was have we worked out what we worked out backwards for my ETF 116. um the two deliverables that we committed to during the chartering process that haven't had a lot of work done on them which are due at the same time is the security objectives and the concise threat model um which actually funny enough I think are very important to explaining why the use cases are interesting and probably should be embodied in the architecture document so I don't think there's significant new artifacts to create but I I'm I'm concerned that we're running towards March quite rapidly and we're maybe not putting enough time into those two aspects so we need to table those for some of our future interims because everything we're talking about was actually due last December and I think we all we all agreed that it was sensible to um to Target those for 116 but we can't really slight which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "shouldn't didn't expect to slide much beyond that so we've got to take those out of two things into account so I already saw sorry for interrupting that Kay was aggregating requirements out from the um use cases I think that's worked towards the threat model items I think we should also get somebody who is a threat model Enthusiast like Renton arm as a source of wisdom to us here and and then go through his stand-up movements so we don't uh have to uh reinvent The View here for the sake for what works at ITF um and um and make it uh hopefully concise so I'm not sure how concise it might remain over time but uh um we would do this as a working group action anyways because I highlighted it could be part of the architecture and if we're doing that everybody can contribute so uh that is not a an issue so I have a ping him and we'll find out when he is not absolutely overwhelmed and then try to a car some time out of the schedule who did you did use that with yeah Brendan Moran is a very good colleague from from yogesh and uh and yeah he was we spent a bunch of time at IET F-150 yes yes exactly yeah I think um having the the threads listed in the architecture document uh appears to be a sensible approach rather than creating yet another document um yeah that makes sense um it's right is is that good for you in terms of like working backwards it's not as probably as precise as you would like to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "see it but uh um if we have still we have the the terminology discussions uh end of last year which are the terminology it's part of the architecture document but then we kind of favored that um a little bit we move to the use cases and now obviously we made some good progress on the use cases and now at some point in time we need to attractive um to the architecture make some progress there foreign yeah there's a couple things that are still out there one is we've got to have material four one one six it's like you have to work back when with the slide decks are going to be who the speakers are and so forth so you kind of need to clarify though and give us some room to move the security documents and so forth just having them out there and and people working against them threat model is is precisely what we need to call out and you know I agree with John and Mark's coming up really quick um and of course there's posters and a whole bunch of other stuff that I have to make sure that the things are out there they just don't come for free okay and some of this harness should just be hey this is this is work that needs to be done we don't have to talk about it in the meeting just who's on point and you're dumb yeah well I guess John and I need to look up the the dates and and um figure out send out some emails um to everyone to see who is actually planning to be there in person and who is going to join um from remote um the time zone difference maybe a challenge uh for some so we'll see how that works uh and then obviously we need to to get the documents um prepared and then submit it in time uh dick you raised your hand and yogish"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "YouTube yeah okay yeah I'll be brief uh I just put some links into the chat uh with regard to that new new use case proposal that's related to them in this consumer software labeling recommendations but the people are curious you know where this comes from that's where you will uh you can find some additional materials thanks okay yeah I was planning to put you on the spot on this new use case to give us a uh a kind of a sneak preview so to say because I suspect not everyone has had the time to read through the emails on the list I'm doing the holidays uh yeah no problem happy to do it honest okay no don't feel well I'm on the spot at all so so niss has been working uh I assume everyone I'm a witnessed here I I want to be sensitive to my colleagues outside the U.S they're our national standards technology Institute but at any rate they've been working they've been assigned responsibilities under an executive order to create cyber security uh recommendations and standards and uh one of their uh required deliverables is a is a essentially a label a consumer software label that will help uh consumers identify essentially a level of trust and software uh and so the link that I placed into the chat there the recommendation link which you see at doi.org that contains the actual recommendation about the labels um this isn't isn't coming out and saying which specific type of label they expect people to implement uh but I think what's interesting is Microsoft supplied some comments on business labeling that it suggested that App Stores could be a source of information for the use of these labels so I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "this is what it's referring to it's kind of like the ability to say you know how much can I trust a piece of software in an app store or anyone else anywhere else and the label is intended to be some type of indicator as to you know how much trustworthiness like this uh with it for a software app in Rockstar or anywhere else so hopefully that answers the question yeah uh that's that's excellent uh yeah thanks thanks a lot um obviously have to find out on how to put that information in the app we obviously have uh a few uh sort of paragraphs already regarding additional information that gets put into the registry um concerning for example um static code analysis and other information and so maybe that could be additional information to as a kind of a reputation based scheme to give some additional information about um sort of like the quality of the software so to speak uh yeah that that's an excellent point harness and I think that's what we'll need to come through uh and Skip is the specific um information in the the strategy Integrity of the process that we need to filing one of these trust declarations into a trust registry that that process needs to be very high integrity and Incredibly secure such that you know people can't tamper with the process and put you know false information into the trust registry because people are going to be relying on that information so that I suspect that will all have to be covered as part of the skip design concept thanks uh Chinese you raised your hand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "oh it's me actually oh you're right uh yogis you go next yeah yeah first of all I wanted to ask uh intermittently when the many audiences speaking Yeah I see to seem to have losing their voice so it's the it's very very patchy is it a problem on my side do you think or you guys can you hear consistently when others speak it's fine for me yeah the audio quality is good for me also okay so something we need to check on my login is there settings audio settings which we need to fine tune presumably to make it maybe typically it's a wireless line issue your kids are probably streaming something we have many many day yeah many users but I shouldn't have been that problem but okay the point is the terminology yes we had a great discussions with um Cedric and Anton about the terminology part and overlapping with rats and I think barring two or three common terminology pain points I think we are in a pretty good shape on terminology so we can quickly wrap it up this month as one of the open Action items in the architecture before we go to iitf116 so that's that's something we we will take care and will take forward the discussions um and the threat model yes we started discussing that last year but we thought we should prioritize use case document first so we me Hank and others started on the use case but now it is going in a good shape we can we can Target specifically on the threat model documents and anyone interested happy to kind of collaborate and be working on threat model would be the next priority after settling down the use case document yeah that's what I wanted to say it's very much on our radar it's not out of radar yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "uh yogish on the on the terminology did you unlike uh if I recall it correctly like we had some obviously a lot of choices for the terms and um I assume you had some offline uh discussions with uh Cedric and Antoine and so sorry is the current status reflected somewhere I couldn't hear you at all sorry I missed the conversation completely it's awesome I know of no document that summarizes any decisions or any summary that came out of Cedric Antoine or yogesh there is a GitHub issue basically we discussed that on a GitHub issue actually on the architecture let me share that okay yeah please post it in the last I remember is we parked this discussion waiting for use cases so we probably need to bring it back and have everybody comment about it I think it would be good to post a mail to the list to refresh uh everyone on where we are uh on these terms okay um in which direction we are going I personally am not uh like I don't care about the terms that much except for the trust um um while you are looking at the link uh Charles you are on the in the queue as well can you hear me I'm just checked yeah checking where where did we okay let me hold on put I will take an action item to kind of clarify where are we with the terminologies section what are the open issues and then um how to take it Forward based on uh what we had concluded so far so I I will share something onto the group shortly on skit itf.org sorry Choice uh now it's your turn okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "uh thanks so by the way happy New Year everybody um I uh was watching the uh the email thread pretty closely over the break and uh I just reviewed the document I have I'm sorry I am catching up a little bit here I've got an awful lot of stuff going on so I'm unfortunately time slicing a little bit but I did look over the document uh you know in its contemporary State and I think some of the comments that were made in the email threads have not been reflected in the document at this point and I also had a question on whether we have uh decided whether we are going to um include kind of uh uh evidence directly in whatever the skit data structure is or if we're going to refer outside to that and so just two examples of those issues the first one is that uh one of the things that I think was mentioned was the term trust bond uh was a little bit uh proprietary and not a sort of a well-known term of Art and that we should change that I see that it's still in there and I do agree with that change so I would recommend uh that if we want to debate that we should do so uh but the uh the other one is uh I think there's uh the use cases imply that we are going to I think have evidence in the database uh I actually personally favor that but I believe uh Hitachi is sort of uh not in favor of that so I'm kind of interested in which way we want to go and I think we need to get that significant issue straightened up before we get too far down the road here and then just sorry just one third thing is that we have a lot of use cases now and uh I recommend you kind of put a pin in that I think these use cases are going to be pretty good for illustrating at least on round one what we're trying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "to do and we probably ought to limit further use cases until later so that is my uh that's my brain dump for now over the over the holidays and thanks very much for for listening good uh right you I think you want to respond to that yeah true true the uh question of whether the data is stored in the skip database or are out I think I can see both happening I don't see anything including those the use cases though do we have one that describes data outside like I understand for privacy reasons people would you know might like to to just have the the hash of the content in the Skip and make it uh opaque to everybody else oh I mean the way I read it the use cases were kind of implying that the uh the evidence will be included in the database uh and we it's not it's not 100 clear or defined um and I think maybe this document is not really where we wanted to find that we wanted to find that somewhere else but it is a thing we need to kind of resolve in my opinion to any of the other use cases not cover data outside this scripted uh I I don't think any of them are excluding one method or another based on my reading what I would I would love to see is one of the documents with data in another use case with data just so that you covered both if you want to pin the use cases do you think that's appropriate or do you think we have to cover that before we're locking down I think it's okay either way I guess I just want to make sure we don't uh move too fast there and uh gloss over that okay thanks sure okay John you're next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "could we can we talk about the terms real quick sorry um let's finish this up one uh because we have a I guess uh those in the queue probably want to respond to this specific issue yeah okay perfect go ahead yeah there was a there was a big flood of people joining the Queue at the same time as me I would observe that this conversation was had um in common war that was quite in the working group it was right about the time we changed from being above to a working group but this discussion was clearly had and the conclusion clearly was that we must have space for payload but we must not require the payload um so I'm happy if we want to have um we want to have that sort of more elucidated in the use cases and the use cases are things like you know where the payload is evidence or there's no reasonable way of of transporting it out of them it makes sense for it to be there where you're actually looking at supply chain Integrity then you can put things like hashes and then there's no necessary disclosure but there is still transparency and Trust right so um yeah it would probably be good for me or Hannah that's probably me because I've brought it up to go and find that discussion again if you want to do it but I don't think we should revisit it because it was had at some length uh a couple of months ago there was a third one which is if it's already public there's no sense double storing it in two places yeah the the the Practical constraint as well yeah yeah so it's a good it's a good point Charlie because it comes up all the time uh we should make sure it's written down somewhere clear but the discussion was had and the conclusion was we need both I haven't made every discussion but uh that is a obviously critical architectural uh uh Foundation yeah I'll make a note I okay um Steve you're next time I mean that's part of what we were talking about I think they're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "documenting some of this stuff in the use cases or in some form will help because there was the balance of disclosure of information there was the challenges the technical you know how much data does this thing have to it it was also the ability to index so that if it leader doesn't have to describe it so that the periods so I think there's a little bit of you know life cycle capacities and balance of where information is mixed with uh the disclosure of information that we should figure out so I think obviously getting it written down will help with some of this whether it's in the use case or some other requirements document will help yeah it makes sense like I said I just wanted to make a note to ensure that we can zoom over that without thinking about it uh I guess it's my turn um if you can make it transparent to a total or if we can make it an optimization for a particular instance and how it stores it um that might be one option but that also impacts on whether it's how it's queryable so I we definitely want to get some stuff written down around it so two different in the challenges is as we're promoting content across different instances does is that ability to store it external or in The Ledger um does that wind up as a user issue or is it just an optimization of a particular instance I think that's part of the details we want to be able to coordinate is it's that promotion across that really makes it quirky okay Raymond uh yeah hi um yeah I don't know what's coming up Raymond Minnesota Ray that's fine so anyway the uh I okay as you know or you know maybe not is that I'm working on this election data use case and I I wasn't really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "planning on making that a formal submission but maybe I should um uh it's sort of off the beaten Trail at but not too far so you know it's I don't see any reason why it can't be accommodated with what everyone's talking about but it does need uh data outside of the measure for example and also air gapping um support and and maybe that's about it so it isn't a lot of things that I need special but I was working on a paper on this remote references question that um I started working on and then got um sucked into other issues and I I didn't finish it yet but um it just considers these four aspects that I think should be broken out or at least considered when we talk about remote references um and I'll it's covered in the paper so maybe not take time now but I'm working on that I'm working on that and then I'm also we talked about the election data use case I want to thank honest and a couple other people on that one technical meeting um me I'll swing it by the group and see what what everybody thinks how we should how we should handle that but I I don't mind not not having it be um you know a central point since we're focused on software it's it's kind of a diversion maybe maybe would irritate people by to being too far off the off the focus okay very great but I think it still makes sense to even um for later to have a few paragraphs um written about it and specifically since we want to make sure that we have a generic solution covering various"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "different aspects so I think since we discussed it I was quite I didn't see any any show stop us but but it's still useful to um document it somewhere even though we could maybe put it on hold for now foreign before we include it well I have a lot written on it so I'd have to I'd have to probably compare it down to something that is not so voluminous um I know that Neil Nick burnt that is also here and he's interested in this use case so it's not just me um and so maybe as uh those people in that group were we can work together too but um yeah so a few paragraphs uh maybe just a list of requirements which one the whole thing your whole thing I would love to see it yeah okay all right all right so uh love to show it to people if you guys are receptive um so I will put something together I do have a bunch of stuff already written so I'll just I'll just slap it up and see what happens and then we can go from there thanks um click Unix so I I want to address what Charlie Rays is a concern about the phrase trust born um I'll take ownership for introducing that I didn't I couldn't think of another way to describe it I'm certainly not married to those terms Charlie so if we can come up with a better way to describe the concept I'm all in if you would like to say trust relationship if you think that's more appropriate I'm okay with that but anything you want to say this this concept of needing to confirm the or validate this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "relationship is pretty you know pretty well known in fact I sent a an error message or warning actually from gpg that describes this very concept as a concern so I I don't hopefully we don't disagree that about the need for this uh you know or that this concept is real it's just a matter of describing it in a way that we can all agree if that's what you're referring to that I I think I'm good with whatever the group comes up with thanks yeah I thought that might push a button dick but the uh I think the the real issue is that it's uh uh we're playing in a whole bunch of different spaces here uh trust bond is not a term of art right now in a lot of the uh supply chain work that I'm doing uh however I do agree that the concept is important and we need to Define it I would just say uh trust or trustworthiness would be a decent substitute for the use case and then uh as we go through the use case we can Define exactly how to uh Implement that in a very specific way and if we want to call that trust bond uh that's fine too but the other thing I would say is uh if we're going to use any terms of art here that we expect to become generic we have to be also very careful that they're not proprietary and that is uh I'm not sure dick if you guys are using this if you get a trademark on it or anything like that the trust score is another one that I think is going to be a little bit problematic uh so we want to be a little bit cautious there and make sure that we're being extremely uh uh you know uh Swiss in our neutrality so let me reply to that Charlie uh we certainly are not claiming any intellectual property uh rights over trust the phrase trust fund um it's used in other areas uh to mean different things but if we want to change it I'll go with the group I honestly if you I mean if we all agree that the concept is important then we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "can just call it whatever we want and describe it accordingly yeah I think the thing about the use case is the way it's described is kind of assumes that if you go to uh you know Miriam's uh you can look it up and see what it is and I don't think that's actually the case right now uh we would probably be defining it uh you know in a uh like a definite way for the first time uh at least in my experience I haven't seen the term used in other in other documents besides this one and it's not that it hasn't been but I've been around the block a little bit on this and I just haven't seen it so uh just let's uh let's ensure that our terminology is uh neutral and accessible and well understood by the reader and if we need to Define new terms to do that that's certainly within our purview so I'll go on the record as officially withdrawing the use of the term trust bond with uh with the with the agreement that we will have something something to replace it with is that okay I think that's perfectly reasonable I guess I'm just just pointing out that it's all I want to say is one it could be proprietary and if it's not that's fantastic so much the better two it's not well defined and we need to make sure that it is uh or use a better defined term that's all I agree on all the points so let's go ahead and resolve it thank you okay great thanks dick Hank your next yeah so my hand is a little bit old some slight reverbs um yeah so we were talking about uh data in structure that are outside of structure therefore just having a reference baked into the structure um that is also touching on two other topics that are probably aligned but actually separate use cases and uh please excuse me to project a little bit into solution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "space here but we're always talking about the statement coming from supply chain entities is opaque you do not have to understand it we are talking about the authenticity of that statement so um now this statement if it's a reference is not opaque anymore it's well understood it's actually well known it's probably standardized the same way the um original sign statement is standardized all right support going to be standardized um now so and uh and that's a certain semantics of a non-opaque a well understood statement that we provide the frame for it's like here's a URL here's the hash whatever you know a reference to the thing where you can find it or a mad URL or whatever some something like that along along those lines and that is touching to another topic which is another set of um non-opaque well-known statements and that's how you deliberately might relate statements in a standardized way that is very known and again not opaque that might be another layering of of envelope inside the Cozy envelope I don't know again I'm not trying to project into a solution space too much here but I think these are somehow interconnected and I think these are all non-opaic statements and that's that's uh that's a design thing we have to uh take into account that is not to uh this will not be addressed by the use case but I just wanted to point out all of these things are then um the first non-opaic statements yeah that's basically it okay okay thanks thank you uh Roy you have your hand up yeah mine was a little bit of a follow-up to Hanks which is be aware that there's also the question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "of what do we expose in our audit so as people write up their use cases we don't have a real coverage of what they Expo expect to be exposed during the audit of the The Ledger or the registry data right so that'll help some of this there's both data that gets stored on The Ledger which is for other purposes and then there's data store in storage or external that can be in a completely different database so hopefully people are thinking through both those as different storage units because okay um monkey yeah I'm gonna go back to the I guess the terminology the long cue here uh do we have oftentimes I find if I could go six point of view another I have a definition before you come up with a word or term for it do so it might be just having a few what do we mean by this term and then come up with a term associated with it otherwise you'll end up arguing um over semantics so do we have a clear place to put a few draft you know the the gloss on the right hand side that would actually Define this with leaving the actual term blank yeah do we have that's a very good point uh this this was also what I suggested um to focus on in my review on the list um before to to describe more precisely on what we mean in terms of what actions need to be done to like have that relationship or whatever you want to call it or verify that relationship etc etc so I think that will typically help um to um to make it clear what uh what we mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "by that and maybe then also to find out whether that matches an existing concept already and I posted a link to a glossary a security glossary which contains uh numerous terms uh so maybe maybe there's something new that we need to come up with uh but maybe there's something that we can uh for you yeah I would prefer that so is there again I'm still unfamiliar with the tools How would how would one come up with is just a mailing list item or how would you have a a set of draft definitions that people could bang on mailing list just on the alert list okay sure yeah but I think the best way would be um to look at the document the use case document which talks about the uh read through that paragraph or that use case and then maybe it gives you enough information already to say like hey this is actually relates very much to that other term that I'm used to seeing uh in I don't know Community x uh and that that would be good feedback okay um I'll I'll see if we can get that done this week thanks um I would like to add to what Monty's point is um basically the intent was that all the terms we use as part of this kit should be the terminology section of the skit architecture where we Define what that means in the extent of skit context so there shouldn't be anything which should be ambiguous respect as what Monty is pointing okay uh Steve you were actually next I was gonna well one I'm just looking at the clock and we're gonna be actually get to terminology because I was gonna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "pause and just kind of say we want to focus there I think the um but just the one teasing of this conversation of the storage is just to think about uh Access Control right it's the just because it's external that Maybe not maybe public it may be not public information depending on the scenario so we've had a bucket for our back to discuss it's just another one to put in the queue and think about okay um before you so we managed to get through the queue and have a few minutes left and so I wanted to use that time to um also suggest um in preparation of the the six door use cases Etc let me post a link to the mailing list uh or not that amazing is to the chat window um and and hopefully someone else has had a chance to um look at the link that Tracy sent around uh right before Christmas so you may have missed it uh and it it's a bunch of um write-ups on different use cases there by um different companies so there's there's a lot of additional context that comes with the use cases but I believe um there's some uh key aspects in there for example um the air gap scenario is cabatia there's um the link to attestation there's a point that you sort of like the use cases with Docker images for example um there's also pointers or sort of a hint that key management is quite important and also identity reusing existing identity infrastructure so if you haven't had a chance to read through this these use cases yet take a look at that email and click through the through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "the links um and then ideally since those obviously software use cases we want to double check whether we cover them covered um some of those aspects already or uh or most of it and whether we can beef up the existing text with this additional information I think that could be uh could be quite useful this is Ramada and then I took also some notes um uh as as next steps for the next meeting um I will remind all of you who promise to actually take some action uh so that we have we can put together an agenda for next week's call and then make some progress on on the architecture slash terminology um and and so on I don't I don't know if uh hanky will have the possibility to schedule your one-on-one with others during this week so we can already discuss the outcome of this but yeah that's my my proposal yeah just to add for terminology I I found the issue which we were discussing you were saying that as far as it was not linked to um sorry not really Roy uh it was not linked to the use case but there were few only two or three open issues on terminologies which there was an overlap with rats I recollect and I shared that in the chat window if you scroll up because it's gone down at 437 timestamp 437.41 so anyone welcome to comment that issue and we will try to close this as early as possible and update the group what we have concluded on the Monday call yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "okay yeah uh Zachary if you have some uh for example some text suggestions um for use case document based on the the work you have done in your uh in your group that would be great too yeah I'm sorry to jump in before Zach has a chance to come and I did make a note earlier Joshua Locke also mentioned that he'd be willing who who works with the six-store community he said he'd be willing to help with six drug use cases yep I was just about to come into that effects that I will uh I'll work on integrating uh aspects of the six star use cases and case studies into the skill use cases I can can take that one great thanks Josh perfect thanks thanks for volunteering um Raymond uh uh question about the technical meeting is that still going to be occurring and does it go through meet echo or is anyway can you just post an email to the working group or something each time it would really help me know which week it is uh and if it's happening or not because I just get lately just trying to find everything scrambled around I appreciate it thanks yeah um so officially we have one group meeting this this is the one uh the official meeting uh per week and and we have all the tools and so on um if we need additional meetings like Hank was proposing these 101s and and uh for example this other meeting which was supposed to be the purpose of it was uh more to discuss topics which are a little bit outside of the working group like add-ons like software stuff and so on um that's perfect too but it's it's not something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "um the only those who are interested in discussing those I think should be should be involved uh it's not something like everyone can discuss with everyone they like and they should uh of course but uh there officially there's only one one meeting this one and I will remind everyone and send a link and try to update uh or not try we'll distribute an agenda uh every time so yeah yeah sorry just to add to what Hannah said the last year's skit technical meetings have been canceled now so there's only one meeting and this is this will be the meeting the reason for this was uh and maybe this was confusing to some uh but we had this often uh meeting invite around uh but I couldn't cancel it because uh yogish created it uh and and as as you yogish uh you went on sabbatical it was kind of hanging there so at the beginning of this conference call series of meet Echo we had some confusion uh consequences but uh I think we have passed that coin so thanks for cleaning up our sort of uh Outlook uh invite list so we we were having spin-off meetings on deeper technical issues that we said we were going to cancel until we had a more in-depth um agenda the whole point was to to work on the documents that would bring back to this meeting um as a group as a way for us to all to work together but right now we have nothing on the agenda for any other spin-off meetings perfect pick you want to say a few famous last words just wondering if we might want to put a you know set a goal out there for ourselves on finishing the use case document I'm wondering would people be willing to say we want to finish it by on whatever date like March 1st or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "something is there any appetite for that well I hope that um the group is able to finish it a little bit earlier uh to be honest um I understand there's still some content but um give them what I heard today with the volunteers and and Hank sort of like spending some extra time with uh with uh conference calls so I'm hoping that we get there uh we have the document in a good shape already by the end of the month so at least uh um mid-February yeah and I'm willing to commit to meeting whatever timeline we agreed to so whatever that is uh you know I'm prepared to you know participate and Achieve that goal thanks awesome thanks thanks did you say mid-February was that your proposed or did you say end of February no mid uh I I think I think it's uh it's getting there like it's uh and if people really sort of do what they just promised during the meeting I think that that looks fantastic right okay yeah yeah and this is like I need this to be mid-February because I at some point have to switch for TCG gears and fly to Vancouver and that is a little bit more difficult to I get in sick maybe not for the us but with others hey can you let me know sure mid-February is goodbye me guys so I'm in okay uh people are dropping we're already over time so um I think we should stop here and uh yeah get back to work so to say thank you all for joining um and speak to you soon thank you thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "so are you recording this already and that's right it's it's automatically recorded and thanks for the me taking meeting minutes uh okay it was a lot of discussion so very complicated to capture all this stuff yeah but I did my best thanks thank you okay see ya"
  }
]
