[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "all right good afternoon late afternoon everybody welcome to the first Dena\u0027s op session for this ITF I\u0027m Tim that Suzanne that\u0027s Ben oh oh oh get going on this I don\u0027t see him Warren\u0027s our ad he\u0027s out I saw him because he just asked me about something Paul\u0027s doing minutes and Paul had a request that if there\u0027s not a lot of my clients if you could use this one so he can get all the nametags and if there are a lot of discussions then well that\u0027s just good times and Dan who there somebody\u0027s doing jabber scribes up there is Thank You mr. York so you know the note well it\u0027s early in the ITF this is the latest one so whatever you say please pay attention to it the blue sheets are going around please fill those in this is the only the our session so it\u0027s gonna be pretty short we\u0027ll keep things to a minimum we\u0027ve got an update on the on the current work we\u0027ve got some hackathon updates and some other current working group business though because some notes tomorrow afternoon if you\u0027re looking for a good time there\u0027s the applications you doing Venus boffed ad D so promise to be excitement so it\u0027s right after lunch though non browse you know as you can well imagine it\u0027s a week good so lots of good discussion in there so just giving you a heads up on that there\u0027s a draft in the interior that came to our attention on provisioning domains and the terminology is a little different you know everybody uses overloads the word domain a lot but it\u0027s in this working group last call and it\u0027s about doing stuff with multiple interfaces and it\u0027s it\u0027s definitely there is some relevance there and it\u0027s sort of like that stuff to resolve a problem worried this this stuff has to sort of keep track of what domain is doing what what interface is doing what basically so this seems to be big in the mobile world and also b6 with mobile stuff going on so of course this happened today the RTF workshop but tomorrow afternoon during the open meeting they\u0027ll be there a good discussion under storing the role of registrar\u0027s in Jena SEC deployment and so that was a hot talk so guys should pay attention to that moving on to the documents updates so we\u0027ve got the algorithm update since last meeting and the capture formats been in it\u0027s been in all 48 for like a year now it\u0027s slowly making its way so they\u0027ve gotten all the references sorted out and I think they finally you and Sarah finally sort of nailed everything down so but it\u0027s been a long run for them though so we have three things and we\u0027re actually a couple things more than three things in working book last call the no response draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "which had a lot of discussion for a while and it\u0027s kind of gone silent but with all the flag day conversations you know since everybody\u0027s getting on Flag Day now I feel that it\u0027s time to sort of put this to working group last call so folks send comments a list approve a publication don\u0027t approve it you have comments I think they\u0027ve done a great job of cleaning it up Mark\u0027s been patient with me so I appreciate that so please we\u0027d like to hear some stuff about that even if you want to get up into my clan and just yell about it I think it\u0027s you know this is the time 28:45 biz finally we finally got this they\u0027re working for glass call I think this started in Prague two summers ago and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s done the right updates it fixed it takes a problem so again that one\u0027s ready to you know please send some comments about that serves Dale it\u0027s working for Glasgow until tomorrow till the 23rd so we\u0027ve definitely hear about that and there\u0027s one more yes extended error this is partially my fault I need to wrangle the author\u0027s a little more on that there are some comments we need to get sort of fixed up and then there is a discussion about the IANA registry he\u0027s not really documented in the current draft and it probably needs to be less looking sort of confused and so that sort of came up but up please correct me yeah so Warren and I actually met a month ago or so and worked through the our code missing number of bits issue got it all done and then an hour before the deadline of course I finally got around to submitting it without checking say some of the other points in the document that listed the wrong number of bits and things like that so I apologize for that that\u0027s my fault there is an I in a registry section always okay yeah yeah there has been for a long time and using current boilerplate text if I recall too but I need to go back and double-check that it matches I\u0027m pretty sure it does and I believe mr. Eastlake had some comments that we\u0027re still sitting out there in my inbox a brief reminder mention your name of the mic yeah I started group I\u0027m resolved in West Hart occur from is I yes there are other outstanding comments we wanted to hit the are code one because that seemed like the biggest and I wanted especially the implementers that have started tinkering with it go look we did change the packet format so unfortunately it had he done so go look at that but the other comments are more minor inner disk texture okay so I will try and get that out in a couple of weeks cool thank you so and that\u0027s sort of our mediator angle you authored about that so you\u0027ll see here from you soon yeah with respect to the Ayana registry specifically I think it was me that flagged that and I think there was some question one of the things I was hoping people will pay attention to when we\u0027re revealing this document is whether the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "extension mechanism proposed and the policy on the IANA registry is is optimizing the usefulness of the the document and the mechanism and the reason I\u0027m looking back is because this this fancy monitor here is not working so I have no idea why a couple things in call for adoption yeah Dena server cookies actually we believe that has wrapped up and should be adopted and then the yang model that\u0027s in going through some interesting discussions and kind of understand where things are going on that so those are wrap up here pretty soon and then we have some updates on some current stuff so sumon sent us this about the multi provider D in a sec they\u0027ve made some changes to it they\u0027ve added some sections and actually looks like they\u0027ve cleaned up some stuff you know they and from looking at the updates and looking at and talking it does seem like it\u0027s getting close to working group last call we\u0027d like some folks to review it but it\u0027s getting a lot more discussion especially among the vendors and stuff about how to do in a sec across multiple riders so I appreciate that so I\u0027ll TLD so one of the authors came to us and said hey we think this is still useful we want to know if the working group wants to work on this we have you know we if we you know we\u0027re not you know we felt that we\u0027re not sure if the working group actually has the energy to sort of discuss namespaces is that that sort of turns and do not really dns but more architecture kind of discussions so you know if we feel that we get a lot of feedback like oh yes we want to discuss this and kind of beat this down to some more our suggestion we thought about this and we feel this will be a great document to sent through the internet area and send it through the general area and have the ATS basically Shepherd it because it\u0027s a standard track it discusses you know Caesar application or Internet I said I\u0027ve seen an application they said internet but have it through the general area and have it discussed that way and then you can still get the standards track which we feel which is what the AI is G is basically trying to get us to do anyway then I\u0027ll still get the proposed standard that\u0027s better than doing ad sponsored for example so now I haven\u0027t told the entities this but you know it\u0027s like surprise but because I do think if you think about sort of TLD space it\u0027s it\u0027s more I think it\u0027s more in that area so then it is you know sort of in the it\u0027s sort of an ops area sort of thing it you know we can have a former ad stand up to the mic and tell us you know I\u0027m sure there\u0027s one back there sort of hiding in the corner though this one oh great yes moving vlb to historic this is fantastic so oh sorry mr. Sullivan hi my name is Andrew Sullivan and I work for the internet society but I don\u0027t speak for them right now on the previous item if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "this working group can\u0027t come to agreement that this is a good idea or a bad idea and you send this off to say the Jenn area my prediction is that they\u0027re gonna say I wonder what the DNS offed weenies yes about that is true so this may be an opportunity to prove that we can do routing loops in the IETF itself but are you sure that you actually want that problem I you know I don\u0027t know what problem I want you know and I want the group to tell us what problem to give us right you know this is a group want us to sort of chase this you know che and and I think if we you know I don\u0027t think they have the energy for it you know maybe they do and maybe I\u0027m gonna be shocked but you know I\u0027m thinking of how can we how could we move forward because we\u0027ve been asked to move it forward and if we can\u0027t get the energy here or how can we do it or maybe it doesn\u0027t get it just it dies a slow death that you know well I mean this would not be the first thing ever to die a slow death so III mean I I guess what I\u0027m suggesting and you know my name was I don\u0027t know if it still is but it was on this at one point on my my feeling is that it would be wise for us to make the decision you know to put this to bed or to death yeah you know sort of expeditiously if that\u0027s what we actually plan to do because I\u0027m I\u0027m just nervous that what\u0027s gonna happen is we\u0027re gonna spend another spin we\u0027re gonna send this to the gin aerialist I don\u0027t know if you\u0027ve been reading the genereal list anytime recently but I\u0027m not sure that this is good that a lot of attention there no no that\u0027s very good point all right Jerry huh Sharon watch how come I just following on what he said when when we have routing loops actually in backbones eventually TTL expires and it drops on the floor actually may be the most appropriate solution yes just drop this focus I\u0027m also a little uncomfortable with this document not fine if the content of it but because when this whole mess happened with the Torah and their special domains we sort of froze all new special domains so that we wouldn\u0027t get more people trying to quickly sneak in more of these proposals and now we\u0027re coming up with our own proposal to do this so it\u0027s it feels a little weird to me to continue this document no it does and I think one of the conversations there was there was a slightly different history of that yeah was we probably you know like somebody\u0027s guilty for enok so maybe we needed killed me for you know answerable domains etc which seems like wow that\u0027s you know that\u0027s lots of TLPs right so yes okay but very good point what we did was step back from delegating new special use names until we had done some other substantive work in the working group which we did with the problem statement document which is now RFC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "something-something and we asked for further guidance from the isg because we said we didn\u0027t know how to proceed beyond the problem statement listing the issues one of the things that was suggested that we go back to was this document which actually predated the problem statement RFC another another document we were asked to consider was a draft that I wrote and that the working group was not interested in taking up so it\u0027s not that we stopped and then and then proposed our own change to the registry if we want to if we want to advance this document we can\u0027t that\u0027s hurt occur I say no hats I think the reason that this document has tumbled so much in this group is that we can\u0027t come to some decisions that turned out to be hard right they\u0027re they\u0027re not easy some of them are political some of our more technical whether you delegate it\u0027s signed or unsigned you know how you deal all of that that makes it hard and it makes us not want to do it because we can\u0027t necessarily come to agreement I think on the other hand if you look at the cited is it needed there\u0027s been a lot of community members outside the IETF don\u0027t say inside the ATF we have a solution there\u0027s a lot of other people that have indicated a high level of frustration for not having something like this in a delegated play space of their own and and granted I hate first-come first-serve that the horrible answer to anything but if they\u0027re if they\u0027re unable to to register themselves in the global namespace that\u0027s problematic now I don\u0027t know why they can\u0027t use your ends either but they don\u0027t so if we\u0027re unwilling to solve this problem and the world thinks that this is a problem we\u0027re at a odd space warren kumari with no heads other than Delta quickly responding to what poor voters said much of the purpose of this was actually sort of corel stuff like onion open its own place um but I think that both myself and I haven\u0027t spoken to my co-author but I think both of us are fine if the skies we just don\u0027t know what the working group wants it was really interested at one point if they no longer are but would be nice to know I suspect that if we were to send it to Gen or int or anywhere else they would say this looks remarkably D\u0026S ish why don\u0027t we seems to do a nurse up here myself and it would be I am Paul vixie I guess no hats I don\u0027t come to these meetings very often and so I\u0027m I\u0027m behind on my procedural knowledge but first I want to agree with les something like this is kind of needed just like 1918 was kind of needed and and that\u0027s my personal view but my professional view is that if we\u0027re going to do nothing we should find a way to record "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:09",
    "text": "the road not taken\u0027 and the reasons we didn\u0027t take it so that people who are tempted to throw it back at us and actually look at a negative RFC that says don\u0027t do this and this is why and they\u0027ll know that that is the answer they would get from DNS op rather than not being able to find some answer I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s such a thing as a negative RFC but this would be a call for one yeah thank you No thank you I personally I think some this probably isn\u0027t in it but I\u0027m not sure how to go about it and I think Paul was right we should record it either way right we need to sort of lay the path out for people moving forward so though so maybe oh sure we\u0027ll talk to you okay [Laughter] so maybe something slightly more buy so absentee vlv I every everything was positive about this I we heard no negative feedback at all so we did our little research and figured out there\u0027s several different ways to do it figured out the right process which kind of put the put the little bit of onus on the working group but not much and then shoved it all on the ad which was like hey sounds great to us so by the pretty much by the end of IETF I hope to get any comments sort of editorial comments about it I believe it\u0027s all very it with eyes did a great job on sort of putting it all together and and then at that point we\u0027ll do some data tracker stuff and we\u0027ll send it over to Warren and we\u0027ll start that process to move everything that historic so anybody have any sort of feedback on that that would be great but document is simple straightforward well well-written can\u0027t say anything can\u0027t say anything but good stuff about it so and we get rid of the elbe right that\u0027s I think it\u0027s a good day the TCP requirements they did a version recently and it looks like we\u0027ve I went through the document it looks like they\u0027ve covered all the two news and the missing things that they were sort of trying to fill in and it\u0027s getting we feel it\u0027s pretty close to working group last call so we\u0027d like to get a little bit review and we\u0027ll probably do that here are some kinds of summer the next one is zone digest yeah another one of doing and the last update introduced a you know some a bigger change than sort of you know and we haven\u0027t heard much comments on that but that\u0027s in the same place we feel that\u0027s really ready for working through class call as well once we hear some good reviews and things of that nature and then 718 7816 biz actually I don\u0027t know what\u0027s going on with that we have to go figure that out though that it yep so what else we\u0027re working on steps in the data tracker we have things in github the links are in there so today the agenda cuz it\u0027s only an hour I\u0027m actually the first thing is the hackathon results well it\u0027s gonna be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "doing those and then he\u0027s going to give us an update on the server cookies and then Paul\u0027s gonna talk about 76006 biz which we first thought was ready for working group last call but now it\u0027s not I think he\u0027s got a couple things to fix the latest terminology spin so and then most of the big stuff is for tomorrow this is a short meeting so I think that\u0027s it any other comments things to say then we\u0027ll get to it then well um so these are the results of the DNS trick at the hecatomb held last weekend we had a galimov free of 70 eclectic dinesh hackers working on 10 projects which could roughly beatified it in 14th one was about dmoz privacy one about dienes support for specific network environments provisioning miscellaneous with only one project in it so we had a lovely areas and hands-on work on shots but which is jean transfer of TLS they worked on a client implementation for it in the Tina\u0027s Java library but as Patrick created a don\u0027t proxy with a fast CGI interface so that it can be used with any web server and we had whittled preparing by 9 for dot and out then the the DNS for specific Network environments Stefan boards Maya he already implemented earlier the issue resource Weka type for the identifier locator and network protocol but name server or a resolver actually needs to do some additional processing to make that work char he worked on that yeah he had a reckon implementation will not and I work in progress in for embarked Mark Andrews had a bird on translating ipv4 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:09",
    "text": "addresses into ipv6 prefixes for the unit six for not check for environment for a benign so if you download the slides and you want to try out some of the hex there\u0027s a link to the github repository with patches so that you can patch by line and try it for yourself and dinners provisioning so I worked with Andre and beetles and remote participant it Alexis on Venus cookies interoperability we\u0027re going to tell you a bit more about that later on yeah this is also interesting Mark Andrews and Tim bottom bear built on the D next time out resource record it\u0027s a resource record for professional ad nation with Venus updates will be short records that have a expiry time and so here again are the references to the IOC github which contain these fetches Oh and finally my colleague evolved omens worked on HTTP s sv c which is alternative for a name i support as well instead of that the name server provides the dynamic addresses for name at the apex the work is done in the browser or the program that is also it\u0027s HTTP by following the differences mentioned by the HTTP SVC research record and finally in the category miscellaneous he had a llamo output from dig and delve by Evan hunt and power of month so Evan first wanted to implement or he was thinking about implementing mediation output in the RFC 847 format for deenis but it would he prefer to output in llamo because it\u0027s more readable and he discussed this with all who is the main author of the JSON format power event and this is now already used in pulse s sac proof of concept root server management framework for later she and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:10",
    "text": "visuals so that\u0027s the visuals of the echo phones we had lots of fun interoperability and also between thank you thank you very much good to see that existing a new work is being implement different pieces of software and from prototype proof of concept to the production code Thanks next yep [Music] yes go ahead yeah the dienes circuit cookies cookies that\u0027s right so DNS server cookies are Deena\u0027s native protection mechanism against amplification attacks but to be helpful it needs to be implemented everywhere so multi-vendor cooperation is desirable this is a hard work if a client creates a cookie which is more less a nonce actually sends it to the yellow surface or the client is a visual part and the server here is a alternative name server name shell creates a server cookie based on the client cookie sends the back to the client and then later on the client returns its own cookie plus the surfer cookie to change server and the server can recognize that this circuit cookie can only be baked by itself because it\u0027s also using a server secret to make the cookie and so it knows that the client is a returning client it\u0027s not a spoofed source IP address so and this is good because authoritative can if they see the cookies correct provide larger answers or do not do response rate limiting so here\u0027s the problem that we have before the Dimas cookies the the recipes that were used by the service to make the cookies were a different show that if a cookie was made by by mine so should say it was not not visual fur did not like that cookie and dispersed of it so the we have a drug to make sure that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:12",
    "text": "cookies were made with the same recipe and that all the different DNA surface would make the cookie in same way and we had a hackathon project at the ITF 104 in Clark and managed to have interoperable sure cookies between behind paladinous honestly not venus and inbound and after that she says the merger with draft from Donald is like and Mark and boosters were also addressing the problem with accessing cookie the changes that we did to the new draft where that fix of a mistake sure free cookies needed to be based on not just apply to cookie but also had the client address we use only ship hatch to the file for the algorithm the create that I am a shut registry for different versions for different recipes to make cookies and the drafts we had some operator advice on service it was well over yeah implementation at five on how to facilitate smooth roll over and a appendix it test factors so different implementations can check if the recipe is the same as the one described in the twelfth so lost hackathon the has again a new round of implementing the initial cookies with this new recipe and had interoperability testing between bind nine powered units energy an imbalance which was successful another thing that came from the hackathon is that in the draft it\u0027s stated that the client cookie or it recommends that the client cookie is generated from the client IP Atlas but this is quite impractical to implement so that the reason for this is I believe sheiks privacy extensions so but you would like to avoid it is that cookie revealed that the the same sort certified if the IP source IP address changes but there is no easy way to do this for you to be you to be shocked at its stateless if you create it it does "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:13",
    "text": "not have a source IP address yet early after it sent out and then it\u0027s too late the we want to modify this text a little bit to recommend for visual of us to not use the client IP address and selling out or when creating cookies but recommend for step read offers to indeed use the client IP address because those are the parties that benefit the most from the privacy extensions as well so that\u0027s the the status yeah there was a call for adoption which finished loss Saturday indeed so it\u0027s a working group working group document right now and it it\u0027s a pretty straightforward draft the repairs its requests and a mission in the original dienes cookie graph IRC so thank you for the implementations that Interop test so we would actually with two days ago we wanted to go straight for a working group last call but I understand the artists want to straighten out some issues but it\u0027s also for the room to pay attention on this document because it\u0027s already very good work very well shape and we want to put actually yeah sure what we want to do now is update this text on creating the client cooking yes and then to make it work Rutina some jobs yeah and then perhaps create production quality augmentations between all the different vendors and ask a operator that uses in government to test its excellent work for them and then any questions comments yeah thank you thank you this with the part where you start so yes I think I\u0027ll look this way thank you yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s inconvenience sorry yeah it\u0027s okay probably gonna be out in time cuz both this and the next one will probably be fairly short so hopefully everyone is familiar this isn\u0027t gonna work Warren and I are writing 7706 Biss we\u0027ve talked about it before it\u0027s still in process but we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:18",
    "text": "getting close we\u0027re so interested in stuff like these so it\u0027s getting close to done but it is not done done and what we have done which everybody asks for the obvious stuff is we updated the examples from 7706 because now we have a bunch of implementations in common software so that we think is done and we would love people to take a look at the examples but we actually have some to do\u0027s that we left in that we haven\u0027t to done so we need to do those one of them is that 7706 due to working group discussion leading to 7706 we didn\u0027t put these cases in really well and they have now changed since 7706 so we need to put those in and have them discussed on list we can put words in if there\u0027s silence on the list I\u0027m going to take that as no one\u0027s reading the list because I know a lot of people cared about this when we did 7706 so you\u0027re still going to care about it now and I\u0027m talking to people in the room who are not just Andrew Sullivan well I mean I think a lot of people remember Andrew was the one who got up to the mic and was very active on the list for 7706 but a lot of people are like yeah what he said or no I disagree so there may be that much here and that\u0027s okay getting the use cases correct in this document is going to be very important for people reading at 5 and 10 years later because in fact the way that the root zone happens changes over time and people need to understand why were we talking about it in a certain way in 2019 or 2020 depending and we also have to explain more exactly why are we here on this so not just the use cases but what got us to this point so again what Warren and I will put words in will do a new draft but we do expect the working group to actually look at it I mean if anyone only wants to do in working group last call that\u0027s fine but generally working group last call is mostly useful for we\u0027ve already looked at it and we think it\u0027s pretty done and I think these two might be a little bit useful for people look at so and then we also have to go through and really do a careful comparison with 7706 so that the section says changes from 7706 is actually complete so we\u0027ll have I haven\u0027t told more on this but we will have another draft by the end of August not your head yes that\u0027s a month from now okay so a scrunched up face with a nodding yes so we will most likely get a draft before the end of August and then we\u0027ll ask for working group last call but if what no warned saying end of July and I\u0027m saying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:19",
    "text": "no because I also have a life and I would like to go home for that life so but you know again we\u0027re not in a rush so we\u0027re not like oh we need to have this through at a certain time so we want lots of review but we\u0027re getting closer question hey who need from Google Public DNS so ioud there\u0027s a restriction in the draft which says that the the root server is only accessible locally yes that\u0027s also a title then everything\u0027s not gonna be on the same machine so is there some way to bird that into the document are you saying that you want a world it where it doesn\u0027t have to be on the same machine or to say we know that there\u0027s out restriction so I think wording so that it doesn\u0027t have to be on the same machine I think the main point here trying to get to is like you want to limit access to the server I think if we say that explicitly and allow running on a non-local can you go back one slide so the make the use case is explicit we\u0027re gonna have that conversation that I was hoping that no one would say that but since you have that wording will cause this so so it\u0027s not as simple as saying oh let\u0027s just loosen this up because that\u0027s why 7706 actually said it has to run on localhost we\u0027ve expanded it off of running on localhost but now saying oh it needs to be closest yeah that may not work so we\u0027ll have that discussion thanks Jeff and I said in following quite a fine question I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s covered in 776 or in tentacle being here about if you get like your roots on the TLD isn\u0027t there have an fix and s record fix that there\u0027s a weird echo I\u0027m not understanding right can you hear better now yeah I think so um so my question is if you run this locally or you know environment there and every record under the roots on the NS records have a TTL of two days but if you ask child allegation can have the different TTL value so if your clients connect your server and our show discover in this trap I don\u0027t think it is but our sighting 706 but which TTL we\u0027re going to return to your client the one in the red zone other than the child elevation we explicitly don\u0027t say how to run your authoritative server so if you run an authoritative server that lunges TCL\u0027s or lies or whatever that\u0027s your fault yeah like if a my client connected oh I take that yes yeah and I\u0027ve been over there\u0027s a bunch of times West Hart occur so I is I so i created "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:19",
    "text": "the local reprojected III and one important thing to understand about a local copy of the root and the way that 7706 works Thank You Warren really all you came up here for one one important concept of how the local root or the hyper local route or 7706 works is that it only answers authoritative Lee on the address for as if it was the root server so when it is answering for a TLD and that saying you need to here\u0027s the NS records set for the TLD properly behaving resolvers will then go ask the TLD what they think things should be and if the TTL is very it should be and and your paper nicely proves that that\u0027s not always the case but it should be that you believe the child\u0027s values as authoritative a different the same result but a different way to answer that is to say this is no more authoritative than you asking an actual root server so you will do exactly what you would have done exactly yes okay thank you good so not for this next version but for the fiction oh sorry but needs of it or suggested another use case are you open for more use case you\u0027re absolutely so I will write up some of the use case stuff or warn and I will write up soon yeah and then we will ask for discussion on that and if I didn\u0027t get it the way that who need asked for or whatever or others that will come right and there have been other people who have asked for that where local the definition of local stretches well beyond what I would want and I\u0027ve said no on that but maybe we can have something closer to local thank you and we\u0027re still good yeah so this one hopefully will be even shorter so I have mentioned this at a previous one but a bunch of people have questions or have been wanting to have to not refer to technologies we\u0027re working on now or have worked on the past by their draft name and by their RFC number so terminology comes up and so this is a draft with very limited updates to the terminology document just for these next slide so that came out smaller than I want but I think still readable this just is those six terms at this point the draft is just those six terms and the reason why it\u0027s just those six terms is that seems to be all of the terms that people have sort of half agreed on in this space it\u0027s not planned to be let\u0027s open up terminology for all the other new terminology it\u0027s just these and these terms are not fixed and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:20",
    "text": "something I mean this is a request to have this become a working group talk and people might want to change the names they might want to change the abbreviations that\u0027s all fine but the idea is to have those in a document from here next slide you want to take quizzes they\u0027ll just finish the presentation do I want to take the question no no no the next slide is basically so this is all we wanted now we can have all of them George a penis I say this every time you come up with the dictionary the dictionary is good but it will never be finished you have to ship it you have to stop accepting changes which you just said for the love of God just just shit it is agree I think it should be a working group document I think it remain open I\u0027m sorry you think it should remain oh it\u0027s nicely made no no no the RFC is already done these are additions - yeah I hope you\u0027re gonna come back in the room with another three in a year\u0027s time again and again and again because my intended retirement date with that third again so I hope you\u0027re wrong okay so these are the ones that are in the current version of the draft before the working group has adopted it if if it\u0027s gonna get adopted right so to mediate these all seem fine except the third one which is 53 because I\u0027m really confused because if if we calling DNS doe 53 and we should call DNS over TLS doe 53 over TLS so we could do that so far people have used these terms and other drafts so I thought that they were okay but we can change them excuse me Brian Dixon GoDaddy for the very last one ad D I\u0027m not sure whether I even want to open up this can of worms but the last D in that maybe we should put a little asterisks to say any of those first for t TLS do H 53 or whatever ie we don\u0027t want unnecessarily for a DB exclude 53 okay so that\u0027s it this guy oh right yeah he turned it on and everything now it\u0027s blinding me but that\u0027s okay as well so we might we might not I think that that\u0027s a reasonable working group discussion I would suggest we don\u0027t do to add new terms that have characters like an asterisk in them but yeah Giovani inside an um do 53 you mean like only UD beat what about the DCP nope nope port 53 either it says that explicitly yeah because because RFC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:23",
    "text": "1034 and 10:35 say that explicitly as well Tim with sinski I literally thought that third one like this I\u0027ve been doing too much in the wrong place was Dinah\u0027s over route 53 so right and so other people in the room would would want us to also add do eight which I don\u0027t generate I think these definitions you\u0027ve got the same poll asked you know and I disagree with the suggestion that we serve in DD with an asterisk associated with it the ITF israeli seeds that the EDD list is applications doing de dns we should just stick with that and not mess it up - neither isis because quite frankly if going to what George Michael sent begin unless you want me to come up a couple years now when there\u0027s another one if we restrict it now you know let\u0027s not do that yeah I think you\u0027re trying to get a document the closest thing they\u0027re gonna keep alive for them um I\u0027m not familiar I have a reservation about the last one odd first odd is the only one which is not defined in RFC all the rest are what are called clearly defined with RFC ad is a vague concept second definition of what is an application what is the system can be clear in some cases for in UNIX for instance it\u0027s quite clear but it can be different in other system on third I observe that currently we have added mailing list the name comes from application doing DNS on the list is going in many directions most of them unrelated to application doing DNS we will talk about that at the box tomorrow but today it seems to me that unlike the others odd is very mmm Jodi so this is just the list the draft actually has the definitions if the definition seems to scoochie for you I agree we should nail it down and if it doesn\u0027t seem like we can nail it down I think it\u0027s reasonable to take it out it\u0027s just that many people have been using that because of the problem where people say dough is bad because of X and X would apply just as easily if an application was doing G ot so you know a DV the whole idea was it\u0027s the a that\u0027s important here or not not the other two if we can get that right great and if we can\u0027t get it right we should not add it to to the terminology list I agree okay thank you yeah before leaving not answering my George Michaels question but we still have decided and eNOS of working group document or not right no oh no I didn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:24",
    "text": "even say I\u0027m sorry I meant to because I thought that was what this was about is that certainly anyone updating that RFC should be a working group discussion here I think yeah so it might as well be a working group list but if people don\u0027t want it that\u0027s fine I just I just think that people are using these definitions enough where it would be good to actually have it you know be stated as updates the main dog right No so okay okay did here was a feedback from the room and we\u0027ll go to the mailing list for the yeah okay thank you we have any other business we have ten minutes something to entertain us otherwise we will close this session here and open well the open the next genus of working group will be tomorrow morning 10 o\u0027clock in DJI if I\u0027m correct yeah okay thank you very much blue sheets anybody who didn\u0027t sign the blue sheets sign them where are the blue sheets anyways well anybody who does have a blue sheet hold it up so the people who haven\u0027t seen one will see one I know that I know you\u0027re out there somewhere "
  }
]