[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "[Laughter] [Music] [Laughter] so any note we can\u0027t fly this plane until we know this plane will not take off until we have a minute I go I have audio processing delays and I can\u0027t fast enough Mike Mike I tried that\u0027s easily Oh are we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:28",
    "text": "expecting any more should we can wait another minute it\u0027s so you can talk about not hey guys we\u0027ve we\u0027ve got plenty of time this time yeah it\u0027s a it\u0027s a small room we walked by it a few times we\u0027ll give him time we have to remote presenters we\u0027ve got about 90 minutes of agenda in a two two hour time frame so we can wait a moment you guys want to make some recommendations as to restaurants you\u0027ve been to that are excellent or bars you know I mapped that and it showed it was like four times standard love there\u0027s like way busy so I want well if we do this post session here but I like that idea is that the one it\u0027s the bar it\u0027s it\u0027s the brewery that\u0027s kind of a block away cuz I went to one of those okay no I just went for lunch to some place and it was a brewery but it was not a very wide selection lowing de bruit oh yeah yeah it\u0027s okay okay you know these typical bar very audible crowd which I was it it was three brass presses yes had some interesting if you\u0027re a lager drinker it was not not a great yep thank you thanks she wasn\u0027t here to tell us that we\u0027re supposed to get her started for real Jeffrey thank you we appreciate you being a note-taker as always you\u0027re the best note-taker we\u0027ve ever had we got one miking why this volunteer okay and I want to make that publicly know that we we really appreciate you in every way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:38",
    "text": "all right I think we should start now start Jeffries here so we can start all right welcome to PIM so welcome to M Bundy this is M Bundy uh here is the note well please note it well folks on the Medeco we see Dale Jake Kerry Lorenzo Lukas and Natalie can you guys hear us yeah this is the widest audience we\u0027ve ever had remotely at least for a while that is a yes okay from any of from those people okay great cool all right here\u0027s our agenda we\u0027re going to switch things around slightly you want to fullscreen that cool we\u0027ll get there so this is the agenda a fairly full agenda it\u0027s a good thing we got our own room now because we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna use it our own session and oh yeah blue sheets that\u0027s a good point yeah these are the blue sheets be sure to sign them all right please sign the blue sheets Toshi\u0027s here to talk about em trees and he has some late-breaking news that we\u0027re excited to hear about i\u0027m sure mike has a couple presentations on update and new beer entropy Jake\u0027s gonna be presenting remotely we\u0027re probably going to move Natalie up right before Jake to promote true Pro to present remotely and then toyless has a couple presentations so let\u0027s see next slide alright so of our active working group documents we have em trace which has been stuck for a while with security issues at is G and huto she\u0027s going to provide an update hopefully he has figured out a way to unstick those we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:41",
    "text": "have the deploy draft that they\u0027re the data center deploy draft Mike\u0027s going to provide an update on that Mike you want to tell us what\u0027s going on on the EM cast problems problem statement draft like my bride we didn\u0027t do any update since the last ITF on that a I Triple E 802 multicast problem statement so we didn\u0027t ask for a slot this time so I\u0027m not exactly sure probably what we\u0027ll do is we\u0027ll probably do another update before or Bangkok represent it there I think will probably be pretty close at that time to ask for a working group last call cool and then the yang models draft was adopted successfully since London so sandy is sandy here no no sandy that\u0027s ready to be you know reissued as a working group document so after a while you know took a while but now we\u0027re a working group document so we\u0027re ready for that other drafts there\u0027s the deprecated draft which is actually in a current ongoing call for adoption so we will we would really appreciate folks replying to that adoption call either yea or nay if you think it should or should not be adopted toilets is going to provide an update on that one there is the am bi draft that Jake is going to provide an update that you\u0027re just going to present tell us all about and then there\u0027s the beer entropy data center draft that Mike wrongs are going to present okay so first up a Toshi um now I did post your latest slides but I also posted the latest slides in the agenda slide and it wasn\u0027t the latest so it\u0027s possible that it didn\u0027t get updated so be prepared for it not being their latest slides I go back do the M trace one yeah it\u0027s missing stuff let\u0027s go to the other web page where\u0027s the data track click on the m bundy agenda one the air attack yeah yep let\u0027s click on that about not do anything no that\u0027s not it can you go back go click back on the agenda yeah but just try it it might right how do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:49",
    "text": "you get this page yeah but it might the working group or they I stupid working group chair question what M bone D actually you know do the work for any operational document related to beer I believe it would it would apply I don\u0027t think there\u0027s an inch anything or charter that proposed we haven\u0027t seen anything yet right so operation you haven\u0027t had in the ops requirements I mean if vision will happen it\u0027s part of the discussion came up in like what does beer do now that it\u0027s not just trying to stall here\u0027s it\u0027s fine no need the stall no but that\u0027s interesting conversation that\u0027s actually a good question about Mike there is a good question that maybe you can give us a at the end what is the state of beer and are there operational considerations that we should be providing here I\u0027ll shoot I know she I think this is you well yeah no okay so this is a history of status so we studied the ISD lay beyond generally 20 so this year and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:51",
    "text": "budget was 22 and we got several comments from is G and we revised the based on comments and submitted 20 version 23 on appeal to others old comments but mainly ma normative wording or irony related things and so on so except media and Alec all approved I believe but we had a still comments from media and alec and we leave ice based on their comments and submitted a version 24 on June to August their comments and media upload about the eloquent so we have been working to fulfill the requirements Eric showed and so today I just briefly summarized status and the current situation and they go to the next but beef maybe just go to the last Friday\u0027s weather the last strike last try first so actually this is update on this at this morning so we thought after Eric\u0027s comment confirmation that blue ball we will submit new new vision 25 and ask final procedure but I met him this morning and finally I got his confirmation of a blue ball so now I\u0027m think I believe we can submit to the worst version and the desk device body will be approved by all ISD so this is a current news but so if there is no consensus and there is no appealable I may want to ask you how we can address this comment and how we can stack the current situation but luckily I got a consensus and approval so actually as a result maybe I don\u0027t need to ask what should I do now but anyway I can summarize what we have been working so in a previous ride you have some question or comment well no I was just gonna ask you if you would say something about what you had to change what was needed sure sure of course yeah so this is just a result III think it\u0027s better to show the final result but now I think it\u0027s yeah yeah it\u0027s great so but let\u0027s go back to the page II maybe you removed all the suspense page 3 yes this one so the his comment mainly his comment has he has two comments why is forgery of responses and so it\u0027s mainly security related stuff forgery of responses amplification attacks and he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:51",
    "text": "said this product does not appear to verify that the sender of the request actually owns iCal claims so anyway so no keep cubed yeah this one and because the responses are much larger than the queries this allows for application attack especially India if the client is able to send a query request study it\u0027s much reprise and there because a query IDs so short an attack and can generate first okay well so he required something like a longer qle ID but we already replied that the clearly ID is not intended as a security protection mechanism so the length of the query ID is meaningless to protect something from the security slits so the first part is actually the main point so we updated based on his comment we updated the forgery of less horses so well he may acquire something like encryption mechanism for the messages but we don\u0027t want to adapt to some special encryption mechanism maybe it can be but that kind of specification could be specified in a different documentation so we don\u0027t want to say the encryption making me something like a master assured so we explained that anchor fix make increment it could be fine but that kind of party is out of scope of this document and he understand this part the second part this is more sensitive so filtering of clients so see this one is a version 24 this includes that bird this sections have a section is included in version 24 and also in 25 we try to modify the wording from 24 the letter let fonts explain the differences from the 24 24 and the answer that apply from us is that we should specify some configurable packet filtering mechanism is master so because maybe it\u0027s better to explain with this example so let\u0027s say we have one client and this client is attached to allowed a and Lauda is upstream with Delta B and larger C and so on and at the letter C attached to the sender in that case allow client sent actually messages legally so he is a very good member he sent a clear message and Lala I accept his query and translate this query as a new request message so the quest message is transferred from A to B and then B to C and then C Li change the header part or the message type from the request tool "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:51",
    "text": "apply and send back to the client this is ordinary case but his concerns if the body receiver is attached to let\u0027s say luta flautas B and the Delta B intentionally or unintentionally sends a request packet not actually packet request packet but louder B only uploaded his IP address so he sent that this request message to assume louder\u0027s but in that case request message may have some problem so example over the empty you or something then the LMS egde is transmitted to the original client which is attached to Alta a so this is something like a amplification attack he said so this this is amplification attack he says so this kind of attack or intentional or unintentional attack cannot be cannot be protected by any mechanism which is because by any previous mechanism but to protect this kind of attack we specify configure packet filtering mechanism is must this means that the router should also recognize a type value as well as IP address and port number then the loudest thing that this request message must not be given by his downstream nose even though he is a valid member this kind of intentional or unintentional message must be dropped at a lotta B otherwise louder B just believes his request message which must be different and it must be strange and the transferred transferred to the upstream router so to protect this kind of attacker we should provide some configure packet a filtering mechanism that supposed to verified IP address port number and also the type value of the messages so does the filtering need to happen only in the actual entries client or locking the entries code like the processing code are you saying that the router this condo just on the path to the IP destination they\u0027ll need to do some filtering second yeah basically I\u0027m trying to understand okay it\u0027s it just like when they\u0027re out the processes and em trace packets like as part of being a mem trace client or server whatever that you can do this filth Rima do you expect like a router that forwards IP packets to see oh this is an MJ\u0027s packet I need to maybe drop it well the client which means and the hosts only can initiate it clearly not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:53",
    "text": "to request or reply okay but let\u0027s say there\u0027s some body door embodied the client which is just a house not a louder may send a reply or request message this is something a bogus this is something like attack and in that case the problem is let\u0027s so this is a little bit complex so the if the clearly [Music] the leak quest let\u0027s say okay so the first does send the clients and actually and clearly sent curity packet is now translated to this request by louder and this request is transmitted to other sender okay but in that case the requests include add the appended append response block so the packet size will be increased by hapa and in that case in the middle of the pass the packet may encounter the MTU limitation in that case the current packet request packet is transmitted to the original clients and continuously eliminate by eliminating the previous standard response blocks only keeping the message header which whose type is a request continuously transmitted toward the center but his concerns if the message itself is really larger or the empty which service is really small along the past then the an incomplete Leafly message may be transmitted by each louder several times so even though the the client send a one single query message he may receive the multiple replies which is initiating it which it is created by intermediate routers this may so this is an amplification attack he there so to avoid this kind of attack intentionally or unintentionally attacker request message must be originated by intermediate louder not any host okay so I think them basically only implement and traces part your entries of processing code you have to implement some kind of check to see yes yes yes exactly exactly but if it\u0027s just some random rafter that just see this thank you my my concern is you know when you say like packet filtering and stuff it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:54",
    "text": "kind of sounds like it\u0027s like an HDL that drops the packet like you know and it\u0027s not on the wire but this is actually in the embrace call that well but this is actually really similar to the ordinary regular access control ACL mekinese the difference is that ACL only support to filter the IP address and port number but as well the message type must be also checked my concern is you know don\u0027t think you would get all all the offers on internet to have the capability of filtering packets based on this is his requirement but if someone implements and tres versus two then they can certainly implement code that can check okay it\u0027s the 500 small K address right so is it sufficient to do the letter thing that the only the routers have implement MJ\u0027s person to need to but I heard it from Kelly\u0027s mountain no I said yeah okay so he said there is some Ben does implementation on corresponding to this kind of a filtering stuff she score juniper so he may say something Carrie if you want to speak there something we need to do grant is like hey I can just click anything just keep okay so anyway he said there is such kind of an implementational the something like a common implementations to filter out the based on the message type or something so that cam that kind of filtering mechanism can be at a potato for this kind of a schemer so it might mean that you need to upgrade all the routers with new code well this even if they\u0027re possibly exhaustively you know possibly but anyway so this is and also okay so okay so anyway if you don\u0027t ugly this kind of sentence please say the mailing list or is this what Eric required in order to get okay yeah and stig you\u0027re you\u0027re not agreeing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:00",
    "text": "you\u0027re can you have concerns that it requires all the routers to upgrade but really that the routers have em traced be to working now anyway yes it\u0027s in in practice I mean you could say people must implement some filtering to support that is that right to be compliant with whatever they are disability and you can say okay if you support your people implements em chase you need to be compliant of course but it\u0027s you know it\u0027s hard to enforce and say that wall routers that are deployed need to support and trace filtering and if that is needed to make it secure and in practice it you know you can\u0027t really expect that to happen okay but this is em trace v2 and do does em trace v2 don\u0027t they need to upgrade in order to support this I mean you need to upgrade when you are doing the trace each router on the path with thus beginning of the trace towards a destination need to support and trace but you need also routers than between the clients and those brother is still so you know they will follow the packet as well here like like the curry or the respond house normally do they need to support children but it\u0027s for taking that to the list just so we can continue on how did they say how to grant him the floor it\u0027s a great big red button but it\u0027s not labeled seems like you shouldn\u0027t use the bigger hi Kelly okay go Carrie you can speak hi yep so there\u0027s there\u0027s standard analogy that\u0027s I\u0027m sorry with someone just talking okay there\u0027s standard functionality that is supplementary to ACLs that\u0027s provided by juniper and Cisco and I assume other vendors that provides generic packet filtering and it allows specification of an arbitrary field within the payload which in this case could be the M trace message type so this isn\u0027t a special thing required as part of the M trace implementation it\u0027s just there for current releases of a number of vendors routing and switching products taught us Eckert "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "I guess arbitrary within the data wouldn\u0027t even be necessary right I hope that the message type is some when the first what is it 32 64 bits or so of the message that\u0027s to be you what I remember everybody supports yeah that\u0027s right Troilus so it\u0027s within that arbitrary but some number of bytes of the header which in this case will work fine we can differentiate request and and reply from other message types so we can say only these ranges of IP addresses are allowed to send a request and/or a reply message so carry just run this and this is speak again so so it\u0027s not sufficient to filter this when the process I carry our response you actually need to forward okay yes so it\u0027s a a per interface required configuration on routers that are being used for M trace on the roughest race correct so the configuration although the you know of functionality would I assume it\u0027s there on all the routers in the network um this filtering only needs to be configured on routers that will be participating in M trace okay that\u0027s great but doesn\u0027t that mean though that just as part of normal and risk processing you can say all if this message come from an acceptable IP address so at first that\u0027s what we were thinking so we were just gonna provide a CL filtering but there was a amplification attack scenario the Eric suggested that really requires us to additionally filter it by message type which is that we have a allowed routing peer that has been explicitly enabled by IP address but instead of sending a request I instead of I\u0027m sorry we have a client that is allowed to send request and the client sends I\u0027m sorry it\u0027s all absent queries and the client sends a request instead that that mean though that all you do is you know in there I\u0027m just implementation you just checked okay this is like Carrie doesn\u0027t come from all of the yellow carriers or if it\u0027s a response or the complement acceptable yeah whatever the Lords see what I mean when you process the empties message of course you know what typed messages it is so you can make that decision on your main clarification and maybe that helps with mistakes questions so try to remind me of these packets that we need to filter our guaranteed to be at the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:00",
    "text": "process level because they\u0027ve been hunted by router alert or something else or it can they be in the aqua forwarding thing and need to be filtered there so we want to prevent them from even getting punted the the reason for using the filtering mechanism is we\u0027d prefer not to even interrupt the CPU with with disallowed packets like this what we\u0027re quickly running out of time we\u0027ve eaten all the extra time that we had for this so yeah so can we can we take some of these things to listen can you quickly go through the other two yeah okay maybe summarize them because actually this is a most so next one is just explanation about what is application attack and this is also related to the such kind of filtering mechanism so più itself for example TSM or pin D and so on has mechanisms to authenticate the neighbor louder\u0027s so in addition to the such kind of filtering mechanism router this one says should top any empty edge to request all the premises that is received from a known authorized be neighbors and additionally this is a today\u0027s agreement so this initially we didn\u0027t mention this kind of a scenario because MTS doesn\u0027t rely on any kind of multicast routing protocol but he requires such kind of authentication mechanism as an example we explained about a FEMA authentication mechanism but not only p.m. we also need to explain the intent over this text is to prevent non louder in point from everywhere in village of non pimp loadable should employ some other we\u0027re going to prevent this kind of attack so if you use gnome PM louder than something like a similar mechanism must be are considered okay stick again I just want to say quickly so you know it\u0027s great that he accepted this and maybe we can you know be fine with it I think we need to spend a little bit time off in the working with just to make sure that what actually was agreed on this practical implement so that the hostages have been agreed to be released but we\u0027re not quite sure we agree with the terms of the release okay yeah I think I think it goes without saying we should definitely send things on list when people have a chance to really review and and and digest what was agreed to make sure that it didn\u0027t change anything okay so we will submit anyway 25:25 and then after submission then please leave you the us to version and the 20 good I think at this stage in the process right except I\u0027ll propose something better okay right so yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "raising concerns I think we\u0027re past that okay so hopefully I mean you know it\u0027s like they say the 25th draft is the charm so I might come on down and and thank you Higashi for your grit and determination and getting through this process of 25 different revisions in a long journey very good all right so some of you may remember this draft from thank you from years ago last time last ITF I mentioned that it was resurrected it was already working group draft we thought it would be good idea to have a working group draft here in mbone that discusses multicast as use in the data center last ITF I it was just me on the draft I requested someone to join me and that request was granted by olafemi from Arista so he did a great job of fairly significantly updating this draft with some new information and it\u0027s just this movie looks like that\u0027s all there is anyway yeah alright so basically what we added was things such as things that may not even be necessarily multicast related but more one-to-many related whatever that may be so we address things like hidden replication we introduced just a few things that in the future could be used in the data center and this is where we would need to get your feedback here and this is something that was mentioned at the beginning in this meeting and that is that we included just a brief comment about multicast and segment routing we just mentioned that in the spring working group for instance they are reach are during but multicast continues to not be included in that Charter and so we need to have a place to address multicast in spring we\u0027re addressing some of those things in PEM within embo Andy it\u0027d probably be a good idea to start at least thinking about some ramifications and in beer right okay very good and so we were dressing that where we meant we mentioned beer in this draft as well just you know what\u0027s what\u0027s being worked on even though as far as I know there\u0027s no beer deployments than a data center is that a correct statement today would that be accurate that you can talk about so that\u0027s not sure so there are some clear deployments outside of data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:01",
    "text": "centers so should we be doing things like a problem statement or a requirements Draft for spear and spring I mean for multicast and spring maybe so maybe so cuz we have we have for instance NPM a giraffe that\u0027s going to be mentioned today we\u0027ve had some that were discussed previously about different solutions for multicast in and segment routing whether that\u0027s beer or some new type of solution so maybe the some of those things may need to be discussed from a deployment perspective here it\u0027s a stick yes I was wondering a bit what you want to do with this crap to talk about you know what people have deployed like this practices actually talk about also like issues people see or like future technology of phone installations yeah prior to this latest update from Femi it was just what\u0027s been used today up to this point where March kids used but we added a few just little tidbits that maybe we shouldn\u0027t of well just just an FYI there are some new developments that are being used they\u0027re coming into deployments probably soon just be aware of them and if when that does happen here\u0027s some of the basic things to be aware of if that\u0027s something that that and that\u0027s what we\u0027ve added so that\u0027s kind of the question if we think that that kind of information could be briefly mentioned in this draft as we\u0027ve done or left out entirely yeah okay I think we will focus on keeping it to what I just mentioned that is current deployment of multicast and data centers but again we can\u0027t help ourselves by at least mentioning some of these new technologies coming along so yeah so any way that we encourage people to look at it further we\u0027re not ready to ask for a working group last call we\u0027re going to continue to develop this we\u0027re in no hurry but I think it could be useful especially with this latest update and any questions about that further anybody wants to join in on the fun feel free to join us this would be me yeah maybe both never much for that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:20",
    "text": "crumble just eat what your puppies actually one of them works miss Charles let\u0027s go back to this let\u0027s try the hat kind of the reviews that don\u0027t look for our meeting yeah it\u0027s really helpful try to spit just keep it on that first night if you get yeah not open yeah all right okay yeah if you actually go to the first slide that would be helpful back there yeah that\u0027s good hopefully you can see this so a few bets including someone at Alibaba thought it would be helpful per my previous comments to address beer considerations in the data center as beer is getting more popular and as we discussed beer with customers in some cases we need to convince them of the the benefits of beer and they understand you know the state saving and all that but we found that it would be helpful and I think that\u0027s part of the mbone charters to do these kind of deployment and consideration documents to just kind of help people have something to point to where this is what you\u0027ll get if you do use beer and in this case we we could either have a beer general beer and a data center draft here in mbone d or beer or we do like what we\u0027ve done here and that is we\u0027ve just chosen a specific feature of beer and then in this case it\u0027s including entropy and beer for load balancing and just and create a document about it yeah just just for technical clarity what you did was you selected a use case in the data center and then looked at how to apply beer for that use case and so and then just using that framework that\u0027s kind of where mbone D belongs in a deployment mecca\u0027s for multi point services but you\u0027re presenting this in beer as well tomorrow correct just for kicks and giggles but yeah and you should I mean we normally do that across across working groups to make sure everyone\u0027s informed clearly the entire beer group is not represented here people might have issues about how the intro field is what I mean I I like where this is going I don\u0027t disagree with all the decisions because I\u0027ve got "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:20",
    "text": "some some feedback into this as well take a stir okay that sounds good all right so okay next slide the problem statements so if we can get there okay very good all right so I tried so this draft described in Jing wrong it\u0027s been leading the and these are his ideas and I\u0027ve just been kind of helping them with some of the details of this but we\u0027re describing how beer entropy can be useful in data center Clause networks so beer entropy entropy in general is being used with a variety of protocols including segment routing there\u0027s a draft on entropy I don\u0027t know the RFC number yell it out if you know it but that allows you to view load balancing and it can be done in a more deterministic way rather than just more of a random hashing and ecmp kind of environments and beer includes the entropy as well so you can actually have as you look at a packet and look at the source IP a destination address and maybe the port numbers you can take that out and create an entropy label an MPLS environment and hash on that just tell the second sis question I\u0027m trying to stay clear of data centers there\u0027s so little oxygen but any any example of kind of the worst case multicast in terms of you know to think of an application where you know getting this right is most important do you have one no professional media okay we\u0027re like your description here the Greg Sheppard Cisco it\u0027s not chair had you said long lived elephant flows in pmn they\u0027re all elephant flows and so when you\u0027ve got multi point going up multi point come down ecmp could create collisions based on the addressing hash whereas you want to make sure that this flow takes this link and the next big flow takes this link and there isn\u0027t collisions across that typically kind of streaming out of the data center or kind of the always a DC site all within the DC so processing for exactly so you\u0027ve got I mean so even well what we call a DC and that could be in a truck could be in a stadium it could be in a massive data center facility but the flows are the same they\u0027re all 4k HD cameras and and they stay that way uncompressed flows I think that the important part that you mentioned is the data center doesn\u0027t have to be the Alibaba big thing right but can can be arbitrary load small and the small yeah you basically just you\u0027ve got leaf in spine so you know to hop you\u0027re trying to just do two hop deterministic ecmp paths yeah that\u0027s exactly right exactly so that\u0027s and that\u0027s what a clause network is and so without going into much of detail on that and we mention it in this draft and I think I may mention it more in the DC deploy draft and that is you know how we used to for those of us have been doing this for a long time we used to have the hierarchical tree like structure a tier "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:23",
    "text": "1 tier 2 to3 which was core distribution and access and we\u0027ve kind of moved away from that it\u0027s much more popular to do these cause this spine leaf scenarios where you\u0027ve got to 1 to 2 to 3 the spine being tier 1 the leaf being tier 2 and the top of rack being tier 3 and it\u0027s more horizontally scalable you can add new servers devices routers whatever to the spine as you need them without having to replace boxes so it\u0027s just much more scalable and that\u0027s for port density that\u0027s why we\u0027re doing it and we\u0027ve you know kind of mentioned the the long-lived elephant flows they may affect performance of the short-lived loads and reduce efficiency and there are some hash function inefficiencies in ecmp and you could have frequent flow collisions and more flows can get placed over one path over the other and isolating faults with multiple parallel paths in a data center whether and there\u0027s a lot of them can be non-trivial due to lack of determinism and so we\u0027re trying to find we\u0027re trying to specify that beer with entropy can give us a level of determinism to help alleviate some of these problems and an operator may want to have a deterministic path and this this is something that\u0027s being used elsewhere there\u0027s a draft MPLS spring entropy label which addresses very similar thing we\u0027ve utilized some concepts from that draft and so basically a deterministic path can be found by using part of the 20 bit entropy build that 0 2 bit 2 friends for instance that the entropy level can be can represent the value of zero to seven it can be used to select deterministic paths from a equal cost paths so again it\u0027s something that\u0027s not new to beer but thankfully beer does utilize it it\u0027s mentioned in the beer dress in not any particular great detail and so in this draft we intend that if this is just a first stab at it but we intend to provide some mode more that detail of how you could use this in a data center network any questions so far okay so I\u0027m just gonna quickly go through the next two sides it just kind of it just kind of shows what I just described in this and these diagrams are used in the in the draft so go back up one more great it just went down yeah there we go stay there right there all right so this kind of shows in clause networks there\u0027s three stage there\u0027s five stage architectures and you have northward stages and you\u0027ve got southbound stages that have a rich amount of equal cost multi pass I\u0027ve already mentioned some of these problems for steering steering elfin flows and path divisions two different sis okay next for yeah yeah it\u0027s hard I know I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:29",
    "text": "not we\u0027re not going to use that and so again by using the beer entropy you can bill to provide more deterministic path selection and you can use like I mentioned in stage one for instance use bit zero of that twenty bit entropy label to represent red and blue plus and you can on different stages let\u0027s this case stage to use different bits of that enter beef label to represent three paths to each of the different clusters to be able to provide a deterministic you could cost multi path along a data center multi stage network next slide yeah cisco so in this I your showing how how to potentially break up the interview field to set deterministic paths because the question I have is around where the bier header gets written in a way to use these paths so that would have to be I guess below stage one or it could happen either way I mean she had IP multicast at the pod level and beer in the DC it\u0027s the first in position point creates that field right yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s correct so in my view it would be in stage one it\u0027s a local decision that\u0027s being made and so stage one being the pod so you\u0027re doing in position at the host level or you\u0027re talking about I guess it could be at that I wasn\u0027t thinking of host level I was thinking in the pod but so as I\u0027ve been multicast from them from the host into the pods right now the pod is aware of the topology decisions so I\u0027m just without taking away your Thunder here and going forward this could be a DC specific decision how the bits are used where I could be just networks like beer domain decision not necessary we have to have our architecture dock that specifies the bits to be used in this way but here is a particular way to use those bits and how you cut them up based on how many CMP paths did a complexity for topology you can set a beer wide specific configuration you should cut using controller or whatever tip that happened that\u0027s right exactly right okay so next slide yeah okay well we\u0027re just about done we\u0027re done so go to slide six it just kind of specifies some of the forwarding procedure using beer in tributed just like the path over equal cause paths already explained at this draft defines a method to use part of that 20-bit entropy label and it should be easier and should be more granular and more deterministic than using just the typical hashing ecmp function so with that I was just going to leave it at that and just kind of go on but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:30",
    "text": "think it would be good to have a discussion about if this is something that this type of weather it\u0027s just draft or not this type of topic is that this is something that we think that we should address work on here in an Bodi question yeah so I think you know the most simple but you know problematic reference example to show you know they have people belief in the problem right so I think starting with what you know Greg was saying maybe you know the smallest kind of data center right which could be production truck with a bunch of you know the small stuff and then video whatever it is right so that dead set the expectation in terms of yeah this is a problem and then the other things are fine I mean I completely forgot the details so do we have polarization in the beer ecmp that\u0027s one of the typical issues to deal with right I don\u0027t remember it in the algorithm obviously you know I also stand out on you know behalf of this author of beer te and say that we haven\u0027t thought about really that much about the EC and P stuff it was obviously mostly about non ecmp path but we could also think about comparing this what we can achieve with the beer ecmp with the explicit hop-by-hop engineering of the path and the data center with beer te o your GE okay right so I mean I think there options I would start with the you know do you buy into the problem statement with you know the best possible reference example we can come up with because you know if you buy into the problem statement what what else can we do then work on it right so yeah okay thank you any comments about well maybe this is a chair discussion but this being worked on in beer or in FOD so gotcha so the question is is this what so who\u0027s read the draft who feels this is material that should be adopted as we refine them in this work well or anywhere yeah that\u0027s a good that\u0027s a good question Jeff reality reference univer if this involves defined methods of using the part of entropy layer failed in beer or the purely entropy label were what the came first clarified as you see on this slide you mean you mentioned that gives part of the 20 bit entropy label I talking about entropy label are talking about entropy filled in the beer header do you enter that you run in top you failed in the beer harder of course but generally speaking in entropy is followed the with the label it\u0027s 20 bit value just there 20 bit value okay so if this involves pure entropy field and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:32",
    "text": "also involves some specific beer falling behavior then I think ish should be part of the beer working group in other comment is that if you want to control how the that of the past that the packet follows another way to do this is use multi topologies or or just a flexor I\u0027ll go so that you can decide that some Packers follow so one sub subt apology some other Packers poles are differently sub topology that\u0027s another way to do it right can I\u0027m gonna address that one in particular because I think the use case that I\u0027m thinking of that kind of came up from reading the document is specific enough that the multi topology it would be very complicated you would have to have several of them not just a couple and we\u0027re not really trying to select topology necessarily we\u0027re trying to ensure that each of the hops don\u0027t have collisions so you could build complete matrix of topologies to ensure that\u0027s the case but in a flow by flow basis you may want to make a different determination that this link was okay now but now at the next hop down we\u0027ve got a congestion issue I want this to keep on this hop but take the next one over here to avoid that congestion so it\u0027s that\u0027s something but this matrix of topologies could get very complicated quickly so I think to Tauruses point maybe a more specific problem statement would allow to burrow into a solution that is very specific to that problem that\u0027s dig I agree that this should be done in beer I think because it does seem to alter the ear forwarding and some rate right so you\u0027re presenting it\u0027s tomorrow and beer yeah for more than just courtesy no no so TARDIS it wasn\u0027t kind of clear to me you know if you\u0027re really changing something in beer or just basically you know what a application using beer and setting the field would be doing so might be borderline whether it should be beer or in Bondi but overall the problem statement you know describing the example reference problems so anything operational would be good here so I mean I have no strong opinions either way right I don\u0027t remember now does the beer specifications say how to set the entropy exactly how it should be calculated or is it left more left open I think it says it\u0027s not a scope in that in the document but we should double-check that but if it doesn\u0027t you know required changes in beer forwarding it\u0027s more obvious any of them yeah minors specifying how the value is set "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:32",
    "text": "versus specifying well it\u0027s kind of both really but instead of the entropy field pointing to a nice EMP table it points to some deterministic table that\u0027s effectively ecmp but it\u0027s not built on hash it\u0027s built on some predefined topology yeah so yeah we\u0027re running out of time but did we need so you\u0027re just gonna present so why don\u0027t you a beer and then see the good news is we have a common co-chair for both so Greg you know you can kind of lead the charge in determining where this belongs thank you all right next up Jake I hope you don\u0027t mind we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna move Natalie up ahead of you and she\u0027s going to present on her experience in AMT Gateway implementation building in VLC so Natalie are you there yes can you hear me alright yep so just in in London we had William Jiang present his experience in deploying an AMT relay one of his pieces of feedback was that okay the relay is up and running there is content out there however the state of Gateway implementations is not so awesome you know the best most widely usable implementation was a VLC Windows port that was about 10 to 12 years old so natalie has been working on examining that the best strategy for deploying gateways and she\u0027s going to talk about her experience what led her to VLC and what how things have been going alright excuse me um so yeah let me explain the background for that a lot so um I am you can probably just go to the next slide then so the end goal of the project was to allow end users to access multicast content over the Internet because it\u0027s out there but there\u0027s not an easy way to get it um you kind of have to do a lot of workarounds and so I made a list of various ways that we could do this so that in the end it would be easy for even like my mom to use whoo she kind of struggles with technology um cuz I don\u0027t want it to be she has to enter an IP address and like go through all the stuff because she you know something goes wrong with her email and she\u0027s like I\u0027m done I quit so I\u0027ve been doing that since the end of May that\u0027s been my project at juniper and I had no idea what AMT was before this so it\u0027s definitely been an experience you can go to the next slide so again I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:35",
    "text": "made a list of a bunch of possible platforms our original goal was to use a web browser implementation because that tends to be the easiest for people I mean you just go to a website you like click and it\u0027s there that\u0027s really easy for most people understand and use but I did find some issues with that so um with web RTC at least from what I found it had no multicast support and then webassembly had no UDP support because amt works over UDP without that it just doesn\u0027t work um so then I looked into making a plugin for a browser like Chrome Firefox and then you know making it available all of them but I found out that google apparently deprecated plugins starting in like 2016 they have that had this like movement and then it kind of like finalized in 2018 where plugins you can no longer create new ones even though older ones can still be maintained so I didn\u0027t want to start on making a plug-in just to have it be no completely out of date soon after and other issues arise with that and then I tried an extension and the gist of it was that anything to do with the web browser seemed there\u0027s no raw UDP access so um I\u0027m sorry was there garbled speech nope oh okay I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t know why it\u0027s a curly uh we\u0027re not hearing an echo if if that helps okay um but with the browser implementation there used to be an API for accessing UDP sockets but it has been put out of date or like when I even just started on some of the tutorials for like writing a plug-in or something like that I kept getting all these errors about like hey this is deprecated you shouldn\u0027t use it like try moving is something else but it\u0027s newer so um there\u0027s there\u0027s not a an API and it\u0027s understandable from a security standpoint just accessing raw UDP sockets but they\u0027re also Google is pushing progressive web apps which then it seems like Mozilla was following suit from the stuff that I read and there\u0027s again still no UDP support so I settled on VLC integration because VLC II is essentially the most widely used media player that isn\u0027t the default because if you there are a lot of people when they have issues with their media player if they go to Google and search for something VLC is like the next thing there and it also it already has native multicast support and it\u0027s available only all platforms like they they have a port for basically everything and it\u0027s backwards compatible for like all their old versions and stuff like that so uh and theoretically I actually found this out more recently they also have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:37",
    "text": "plugin like that has already been made so theoretically if the amt module got added in then you could make a web application that could use that plug-in that as long as everything gets flushed up straight and such so you can go to the next slide still there Natalie Oh can you not hear me you\u0027ve kinda trailed off there the last 10 seconds oh I\u0027m sorry what was the last thing I said we didn\u0027t hear it oh sorry we\u0027re you probably you ready to go to the next slide yeah okay hopefully this um works out better I I think it\u0027s even got a default bike but I\u0027m not sure what is it better yes yeah now it\u0027s good okay cool so the other benefits of VLC it handles basically all major media types it can play almost anything even like corrupt files which is really good it\u0027s also modular so adding parts into it and like developing on its source car source code is pretty easy because you don\u0027t have to worry about breaking it the other functionality too much and again it runs on almost any platform I found that it\u0027s pretty easy to use from my standpoint but then again I\u0027m also you know computer science person it could possibly be easier to use for people who don\u0027t but it still got a lot of instructions out there in terms of how to use it so you can go onto the next slide um so what I did is I started on an access module they VLC has all these kinds of modules that work for different things like output access D muxing so most of the D mixers are actually the what decodes the streams and stuff like that um so my idea was that all create an access module that essentially you know open supports sends the correct messages the discovery advertisement and such and then pass that data onto a d\u0027emic sir because theoretically VLC can already read whatever the data is because it should be a major media type it shouldn\u0027t be something ridiculously obscure I did start off using the UT Dallas antique implementation I kind of looked at that first only because it was you know already integrated with VLC quote unquote but it was also from a much earlier version of VLC that wasn\u0027t quite as modular then so it\u0027s helpful ish it was also mostly had a lot of windows API specific stuff so it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:37",
    "text": "wouldn\u0027t work as well for compiling with VLC J holin both his code and just talking to him over email was really helpful for me to understand and also just where to get started because VLC is just really big even though there is a lot of documentation and stuff kind of confusing to get started cisco has an open-source library for SSM amt so that was also pretty useful um theirs was also though intended to you can like set up a relay and a gateway from that and some of it wasn\u0027t fully functional so I mostly borrowed from it what I needed and then the Concordia implementation I referenced and looked at and was using in my initial research to kind of get familiarized myself with everything going on so next slide um so some of the major challenges uh I spent a couple weeks partially doing research I understand AMT but also just the appropriate path because again I would keep trying something with a web browser and then find out oh it doesn\u0027t have this kind of support oh it doesn\u0027t do this so um that was a little difficult I actually didn\u0027t have to duplicate a little bit of the IGMP and IP protocols in order for AMT to work and just getting my messages to send correctly um AMT wasn\u0027t a understanding itself wasn\u0027t a huge challenge but it was still there as something I had to overcome in the beginning right now also my mate where I\u0027m stuck right now is that I can receive the multicast data because I send the messages correctly and like Wireshark shows me receiving the multicast data but the audio is garbled and there\u0027s no video rendering so and I\u0027ve tried synching it up with the Windows VM I have for the other the working implementation and the audio lines up is just dropping like packets randomly and the output from VLC is like skipping 30 bytes of garbage so I\u0027m just stuck right there because it seems like I\u0027m not unpacking the packet correctly VLC seems to be confused by some of the headers I will say it was much easier than expected for me to compile VLC and actually start on writing the module because I haven\u0027t actually contributed open source before I\u0027m still in college so it\u0027s just I haven\u0027t done it yet so that was much easier than I expected so next slide so I still have it to do this for the rest of summer I have some weeks a couple weeks left I do want to add in IgM V to support because I\u0027ve been focusing on IGMP v3 I don\u0027t think it should be a huge leap from what I\u0027m doing now I need to make sure I have no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:37",
    "text": "memory leaks because VLC most of their modules are in and C so I just need to make sure there\u0027s no memory leaks I don\u0027t currently have the timers fully working just because of the way I\u0027m receiving data right now and I was mostly mostly focusing on the actual functionality rather the timers just yet I mentioned before VLC looks like it does have a browser plugin so I could once provided this module would be like accepted into their access you can make a browser plugin that\u0027s then easy where you know someone clicks on a website and it\u0027s like I want to watch this multicast stream and when it doesn\u0027t work natively it just does AMT through VLC the end goal is of course to successfully stream full video and audio because of there\u0027s um a relay already set up at Thomas Jefferson High School near here so and then later on submit a patch request feature request to VLC so that this module will be in there full thing um yeah so um next slide I know Oh impressions so with a MT again I didn\u0027t actually know what a MT was before I started on this project at first I was like a little confused because it didn\u0027t fully make sense to me but then like once I like read the RFC and into it more or some of the Articles that Lennie sent me I definitely think it\u0027s really good for solving as he called it like the chicken and egg problem where it\u0027s like there\u0027s not that much multicast content or well there\u0027s also like not an audience because there\u0027s no content but there\u0027s no content because there\u0027s no audience so I think it\u0027s a really useful way to help transition into hey let\u0027s have more multicast content available for as many people as possible I did think the RFC 7450 was pretty well written very thorough the diagrams were great so VLC itself just briefly their documentation is better than some of the other open source projects that I\u0027ve looked into before or had to like glance at for school and their chat and forums were okay just from my experience I had some issues that everyone kind of dismissed right away and I was like okay but it was really easy to start developing though base on their guides for it so um I think that\u0027s it for impressions so last slide I think so um yeah any questions or comments cool well thank you Natalie you\u0027re a kind of an excellent a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:43",
    "text": "good case study for this working group because amt the spec was essentially written for someone like you somebody who doesn\u0027t necessarily know multicast but can walk in and and so it is good to hear that you were able to pick up the spec and figure out how to start writing and implementation so that\u0027s actually great feedback for this working group uh Greg Shepherd from Cisco so what are your next steps um right now I\u0027m still trying to finish up and actually get the video stream in addition to the audio because um it\u0027s not fully synched up right now like I\u0027m definitely receiving the data I just don\u0027t think I\u0027m processing the packets correctly so it\u0027s kind of a matter of like checking my sockets and checking that VLC is actually getting the data correct since again it kind of jumps through a lot of Hoops so the most immediate one is fixing that but then after that it\u0027s going through the steps to do like a feature request and like code documentation and all that excellent thank you yep thanks Natalie yeah okay Jake you are up hit the big red button for him is he and do it that way well we didn\u0027t need to edit for Natalie so I\u0027m assuming interest for Jake Oh once we hit the button it\u0027s been hit yes it\u0027s you one hit at once gotcha yeah there you go hey we got video though I held my comments cuz I know I was going but Thank You Natalie that\u0027s exciting work that\u0027s I\u0027m interested in hearing more about your progress see your end up work great so I\u0027m going to talk about our new proposal for asymmetric manifest based integrity this is meant to provide integrity guarantees cryptographic integrity guarantees for for multicast instrument there I think there\u0027s no reason you can\u0027t use it for unicast but it particularly maybe like AMT would be a potentially useful case to do that but you know so you\u0027re looking for multicast um yeah inter domain multicast we think that one of the issues it may be it\u0027s not the only issue but I think it\u0027s a blocking issue that we\u0027re not going to have a real and bone with inter domain multicast that you know it is friendly and hardly available if we can\u0027t make good integrity ultimately I think and so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:44",
    "text": "to me we\u0027re trying to fill a hole in the what we\u0027ve got so you guys know what a multicast but we\u0027re trying to solve the main multicast problem and that\u0027s one of the points of feedback I want if I\u0027m talking about that then I would like to understand it and know that but but that\u0027s the sort of premise behind this yeah next slide um Jake I think or at least the other folks on the on the Medeco i we see you i don\u0027t know if they see the slides did the me deco people see the slides they still okay good all right no revolt all right so so our goals here are about we want a hat mostly what we\u0027re trying to solve is live video that\u0027s kind of the main use case we want and we\u0027re looking for asymmetric crypto so we mostly want integrity because when we\u0027re talking about live video especially to a wide audience you know symmetric keys just not like there\u0027s a point right um and we basically want to be able to do it it and handle lots of work really in the next slide okay there we go so let me preface this the next three slides including this we got some great feedback yesterday from psych dispatch Eckhart pointer does pointed us at a really interesting paper that I think might be able to this or help us improve on on the schema that we have but what I\u0027ll describe here skin in the draft now and just take hope that we might be able you a little better so the basic idea is if there\u0027s an anchor message up on the top left that is the that that\u0027s fetch eerily usually by a unicast a security a caste connection but we say any secure transfer is fine or you can verify the authenticity and that contains public keys the public keys can be used to verify a signature that\u0027s part of a manifest the manifest in addition to a signature Riya has hashes of the data packets that it\u0027s authenticated so this provides a proof that cryptographic proof that he sent her that the owner of the private key listed in a securely transfer to anchor those the most the data packets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:48",
    "text": "that were part of this data string okay so next book next slide yeah so the we extended this because we noticed that it\u0027s gonna have scaling problems so when you\u0027re talking about like a 20 megabit flow you\u0027re looking at like 2,000 data packets a second depending on what kind of security you think you can get away with in your hash thefts you\u0027re looking at like 140 to 100 is per packet at most with with a zero length signature and we\u0027re not sure how big the signature has to be necessarily if you want to use RSA if you want to you know a big RSA then and you\u0027re gonna take a chunk out of that as well so by making a treaty we can so this is kind of like a Merkel tree structure here by making a tree we can have a signature at the root of the tree which then provides integrity for child manifests that don\u0027t have to look themselves hold a signature and the child manifests then have the hashes of the of the data packets so this still provides the very similar kind of integrity guarantees for the data packets themselves through this chain of manifests next slide so for redundancy of course we need you can either retransmit the manifests that you want or you can send the data packet hashes multiple different times signed by a different tree different times it\u0027s so this is a trade-off of a signature rate versus you know redundancy versus latency of the history you\u0027re trying to secure right so that and so this is these are all configurable as part of the anchor message to decide to determine like what is it that you\u0027re going to be sending and and send it in a manner that it matches and as long as you\u0027re getting the assigned hashes of data packets you can verify that all the data packets receiving are the ones who expect or reject Billingsly yes the next level so one important piece that\u0027s all these things I\u0027ve said so far you can sort of get by Tesla all right test was a spec from a while back which provides the way they good is is a symmetric key but they don\u0027t release the key until after everybody is data packets and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:49",
    "text": "they send the key note and then you can tell they is the key the data packets that we had the ones that were assigned by the key that just explodes on very signature so one of the new capabilities that we provide is that the intermediate nodes can provide authentication as well so you can avoid sending authenticated traffic into a network if you put it at your engines if that\u0027s the intent and though one of the points we noticed was that an attacker in a setup like this where on truck they\u0027ve got a way to send untrusted traffic as a man on the side so you\u0027re adjacent to the path not necessarily on the path you can smooth the traffic here and you can when you have receivers joined to a to a stream that you\u0027re attacking you can make a congestion attack which the IFSP layer might not be a significant amount of traffic what might still overrun the what their suitors Candis looks like so the way we do that is that the intermediate ambi system has to get the anchor and be able to process these these packets and authenticate them before forwarding so the idea is this is an idea we stole from from the ante relay discovery from a couple years back that\u0027s still languishing might be worth looking at again but the the idea is an SG joint is issued and because we have the source as part of the SGA as the RPF signal goes back to the to the ambi node that\u0027s an intermediate an intermediate system it now can do a DNS lookup on the universe I the reverse source IP and we are I think it\u0027s not in the draft yet but the plan is to make a the NS type here and to use that to expose the URL for the anchor message and then the anchor message provides all the information necessary to authenticate all the source source all the traffic from this source is being authenticated through next time so next steps we of course are looking to improve protocol we have the our research to look on how to how to integrate the advice we got from sec dispatch so far the other advice from sec dispatch was if we want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:51",
    "text": "to talk about opening unciekin we need to go to find people who are interested in this so it\u0027s really hoping that this audience would be universally interested uh-hum or close to i and I understand some people may not think that inter-domain multicast is one thought but my opinion that is the essence of Engram and so I\u0027m hoping that we can look for ways to move this forward and you feedback of course is very welcome next slide it\u0027s just more asking for two things and yeah right the DNS thing I haven\u0027t seen it a lot I\u0027m interested in hearing if people do have problems with that idea this figure we can understand better obviously if this whole idea is it\u0027s just not worthwhile I would like to understand that as well and walk away before I spend too much time on it and outside that yeah I would like to make it just as solid as we can were depending on the feedback we get we are probably looking at taking a stab at at an implementation sometime maybe maybe we\u0027ll have something forward motion before hopefully so Jake Greg Francisco got a question for you so you mentioned emsac so is there a bit of a gap analysis to see what m/sec what ball do they drop that you\u0027re trying to pick up here right so I address that a little bit in the draft it\u0027s the under the heading of comparison with Tesla the basic problem is that Tesla doesn\u0027t provide non-repudiation you can\u0027t and so the issue is that if we want to if we want to let both the receiver perform authentication and a network element perform authentication then Tesla can\u0027t do it because by the time by the time you release the key either the the intermediate network node has forwarded untrusted traffic or the receiver is not going to get a key you\u0027re not going to have before they get the key got an excellent thanks yeah any other questions comments on the last one the feedback on the DNS thing I think real a discovery AMT real a discovery is a long overdue topic like you said there was the eighteen t guys came up with a draft using DNS actually maybe fifteen years ago someone from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:54",
    "text": "Sprint came up with a similar way of using DNS and I think it\u0027s worth reopening not just DNS but just generally speaking how do you pick a relay when there\u0027s a bunch of them some of them being any caste and do you pick the one you do you pick the one closest to the source do you pick the most so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s definitely something worth looking at I think DNS can can play a role in that so right so that\u0027s another point if there is feedback on the DNS thing there are at least one that being the anti relay and possibly two possibly another thing I want to consider using the fourth but I think the trick is pretty good we\u0027re finding a you know RPF source related thing from an intermediate node so yeah if you don\u0027t like that idea then I would like to know what all right well thank you for the slop okay great thanks Jake all right poreless come on down so you have two presentations you have 25 minutes scheduled for 25 minutes ironically you\u0027re right on track so you have 10 minutes tourist time 25 okay actually honestly you have the 30 minutes after that until 10 stuff you have until people leave yeah you have the cookie hours but my suggestion is do the deprecated one first and then do the other but yeah oh that\u0027s right let me try it doesn\u0027t work let me try okay next I\u0027m so lost without you okay so anybody still remembers ITF 101 so we discussed basically at that point in time the kind of revised new draft that came out of prior drafts in which way you know started trying to deprecated ASM completely and so we wound that down to deprecating ASM in the inter domain space not but not in the intradomain space so that was the agreement hopefully basically with 101 the 0-0 draft of that eliminating the resistance that we had in terms of trying to get all the way into deprecating ASM all the way and you know one of the reason of course is that ASM "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:54",
    "text": "intradomain is still widely used right so there is really no replacement for the best form of ASM by dripping in enterprises you know to replace you know 20 thousands s kimochi state with a few group states and we can still think about you know starting to retire more intradomain I think operationally but you know really the primary issue from the operational perspective is that it\u0027s a really good thing to start deprecating on the service provider side because that\u0027s where basically the service providers have a good impact on getting the applications to move to SSM right they run their IPTV shop they basically are in much better position to get the SSM adopted while in the enterprises we\u0027ve seen that for 20 years it\u0027s really very hard for them to force applications to support SSM if we\u0027re lucky basically the stuff that happens on the service provider side SSM wise will trickle in the enterprises as well I mean these days what new applications exist they\u0027re all the ones that are being used in the internet now the enterprise isn\u0027t really the place where innovation happens so that\u0027s why I think we\u0027re going the right order of you know not touching the enterprise\u0027s inter-domain right now but you know even something like internet to if you remember the discussion we had in before as being one of those networks that\u0027s trying to get rid of ASM that\u0027s connecting a lot of enterprises research organizations right so that would you know already start going the direction so that is zero zero yeah next slide I think yeah right so then basically shortly before 101 too late to to bring it up in 101 I provided you know a bunch of clarifications and additional operational inside and so that became version or one I got onto the author\u0027s list there with you know explanations like the one I had on the previous slide adding text to discuss the MSTP challenges and why there is no MSTP for ipv6 so kind of a bunch of the background providing further evidence of you know how really dead ASM in real inter domain actually already is and so you know maybe we can still rephrase that we\u0027re really not killing it right it\u0027s basically already dead MSTP is really used in very few inter domain deployments already only so yeah so please read through the 101 was there anything No so I think the the key part of that was at the bottom point right expanding the scope of inter domain so one of the tricks was what is it actually intra and Inter domain and you can have different views on it right one is for the product called site so app in person will tell you Oh inter-domain you need to have different PIM domains but if you come from an operational perspective it\u0027s good enough to say you have multiple administrative entities that are managing around in the network and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:54",
    "text": "that definition if we take it operationally really allows me to say a single service provider that has you know a million home networks with home gateways together is an inter domain case and avala I\u0027ve also made what we\u0027re saying inter domain be applicable to the most simple case we really want a SM out of the picture and that is the service provider offering IPTV services that goes to a million homes and where you definitely don\u0027t want to muck around with in sparse mode service provider tried it it took them in many cases six years to get the bloody IPTV application vendors to support SSM in many cases they had to change their vendors to others but now we\u0027re really in round two around three of these IPTV deployments and I would hope they are pretty much as the same everywhere next time right so and there is a lot more additional stuff so we added text to also suggest to prefer SSM intradomain when possible right and discuss the application dependencies when and where that\u0027s not possible edit stuff to suggest documenting in some BCP for how to develop SSM applications who really support this move right because i think there are things that we learned like you know how to get SSM in iraq into electronic program guides for IPTV applications or whatever signaling you have wherever you are signaling a group address why don\u0027t you signal a source address together with it right so that would be you know added work we\u0027re suggesting to be done here yeah and then oh to was just a fixes right um nope so this light so and this is basically the stuff that I primarily wanted to talk about in in the PIM working group so the associated candidate work would really be figuring out how can we get the classification of our standards into shape because right now older standards that no but he should use have a better standard level than what we want them to use like IGMP v2 so that isn\u0027t a different different presentation and then also how can we get completely rid of em SDP right deprecating ASM inter-domain almost gets the job done unfortunately MSTP is already more or less retired as I said into the domain but it\u0027s heavily used in Trudeau main for the MSTP mesh group and it\u0027s actually doing a pretty decent job for that right but if we want to kill it I think we need to basically make the product call that we actually would want to use for mesh groups which is RFC 46:10 ramped up with all the operational requirements that we have and that\u0027s reliability debug ability troubleshooting and control what we\u0027ve learned in MSD P over the years so the proposal is there one draft that that we have in PIM to basically get us to the you know transport over TCP for the reliability flow control between the RPS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:54",
    "text": "and the other one would be yang model that somebody still needs to write or hopefully find a young author where we can add it to one of the existing yang drafts or updating them um the ssme application development recommendations that I mentioned in before I\u0027m not sure what other you know outcome we want to have on really evolving the standards bases operationally and protocol wise of you know our you know core framework but these seem to me to be the most important pieces that we could think about next letter so conclusions so the authors think the document is really in good shape right all the strategic concerns for adoption should have been eliminated right and so oh yes so overlooked that so that\u0027s just who was about the process so reminders to the list may be may be good that\u0027s great so yeah so in London we did a in the meeting and I think it was every you know everybody\u0027s hands were raised in favour we took it to the list last week I believe we still haven\u0027t heard from there hasn\u0027t been much replies on the list so we can\u0027t adopt this until folks speak up on the list so what I would say is so first off let\u0027s just retake a poll and make sure nobody\u0027s mind has been changed in the last four months whoo-hoo here who here has read the draft okay who supports adoption of this draft just to clarify can you remind me what deprecation means like what\u0027s the effect of that in the idea Webster\u0027s defines deprecated as we I mean at minimum I hope it just represents a you know a statement from the working group but yeah I mean what official you know levers can we pull yeah so we don\u0027t have a police force the best we can do is write drafts and BCPs that say if you\u0027re going to do inter-domain multicasts don\u0027t do ASM do SSM so it is direction to the world that when you deploy multicast so what does that really mean because again we don\u0027t have a police force - you know jackbooted thugs that we can send out to knox everywhere to start turning off ms DP and other things or filtering we\u0027re telling people to filter you know everything that\u0027s not 232 /e what effectively it means is it can help you know the mbone which we are mbone d the mbone does exist it is the multicast enabled portion of the internet and it is primarily i2 so i2 is probably 90% of the mbone and they continue to maintain an MS DP infrastructure they continue to support inter domain multicast and so it would give them the ability to and this is one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:56",
    "text": "of the drivers to turn this off and explain to their members this is why we\u0027re turning this off you know the the the it is it is best practices to not do inter domain multicast ASM to do SSM for inter domain so maybe maybe two comments on that right so I think the this target status of the draft that we\u0027re asking for is PCP and then I think the way that you pitch the to customers is a BCP is like a standard not for product called spot for operators rights I mean that\u0027s I think the the simple pitch or so and it\u0027s hard to somebody to challenge it because I think that\u0027s pretty true right the second one can you send an email about this you know filtering of 232 I don\u0027t think we had that recommendation part in it so it\u0027s a good one that no no I we\u0027re not recommending it oh you don\u0027t recommend it yeah if you remember to in in London that was one of the things that was suggested and it was next okay so yeah I know I don\u0027t think we want to go that far it\u0027s more of a finger wag than a a jackbooted thugs coming to your network to turn it off okay but another benefit Mike is to give clear direction to application providers outs people outside of this working group who just think that oh we\u0027ll just you know join a group that you you need to do SSM that that here is you know a BCP BCPs are saying you know there\u0027s an RFC that officially says don\u0027t do ASM do SSM so it helps providers it helps operators give clear direction to their yeah app app developers yeah and so all the folks who race the hand please don\u0027t sleep on the email list for the next few months say yes when the yeah no don\u0027t it\u0027s not for the next few months if you want to send an email right now you can so so you know when we took that informal poll it was you know five oh so that was I believe five people raised their hand to support it anybody against supporting this this draft who doesn\u0027t want to see this draft adopted okay so it\u0027s five zero please folks send an email to the mailing list that says I support or I do not support but we need to here we can\u0027t adopt this unless we get again unless we get enough replies that the promise just the other half of the working group is co-authors so yeah yeah all right next other questions about for deprecated ASM moving on right so this is just for informational purposes what we have the time so we can talk about it you have somewhere between 11 and 61 minutes depending on how much by the new yeah no that\u0027s fine so let\u0027s go through it next slide okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:58",
    "text": "so problem statement so if you are trying to adopt a product called from a host to a network to signal multicast would be the highest you know internet this is a Q\u0026A session right so that\u0027s that I think the best pitch I can get about the problem statement so so in so v2 are mtv2 and IGMP v3 never made it to another net standard no proposed standard Wow do you know why I have no idea probably because we\u0027ve all been been asleep at the wheel and never cared about processes have you been at that RFC I on Monday evening kind of process is really not a nice thing to think about but you know after decade maybe you know just investing a little bit in this process to basically make sure at least that stuff isn\u0027t becoming a reason why people do the wrong thing I think I think this it\u0027s just like a natural process or kind of like how ITF works and you know I hear small has been there for a long time if they came kind of mature and sure we make it a standard of course in the later versions they have been around for shorter time so just I\u0027m just 20 years instead of 30 Sharia is what I would like to yeah maybe see in the ITF in general you know what happens when you come up with newer versions like your protocols how do you deprecated the thing maybe making it historically this is the problem right so there\u0027s basically this poor app in working group chair or area director that I\u0027m going to ask these questions in in some session in an hour or so right yeah so this my thought would be person one should probably become historic toward a prohibit but double talk to these and others to find out and and of course we need to look at probably you know either worse than tours and see if you want to make something a standard you generally need to go through like implementation report make sure well are you going to say something different now it\u0027s an individual mbone contributor than what you would be saying for the same question in our right so yeah let me quickly go through the slide because I also had talked with operators you know after this the deprecated stuff and about you know we want ASM and SSM right so so the this stuff is related right so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:00",
    "text": "so the operators think they do not need to go through IGMP version 3 or ml db2 as long as they do not need SSM that is you know to some degree true right um so it would be good enough to stay with IGMP v2 and MLD v1 but they also get other benefits from ml db2 as are it from IG MPV ok typos from IGMP v3 and mo d bad typo ok right so one for example is the explicit tracking which is one of these other issues where I think we also need to point out that you know these latest versions to provide short live latency which an IPTV is extremely crucial and then run all charter you know March our brains what beside SSM and explicit tracking where the other benefits that we get out of the latest version of the protocols and that\u0027s basically something we could write down and into an informational a draft in Ambon d basically to go along with these standard document status changes thing i think the main problem that i see all over the places that people think are your peers and thieves as a same homeroom right exactly yes yes so if we can have an RFC with 20 type bold font that would certainly may be the best way to emphasize that that is not the question I can your bullet there\u0027s a little misleading as well Craig Cisco says wrong fully backward-compatible can mix two and three well you can do as a SM without - I mean v3 supports ASM it\u0027s not like you have to fall back to 2 or 1 to get ASM functionality v3 supports ASM yeah of course the well it\u0027s just it\u0027s confusing backward compatible can mix v2 v3 routers queries and arbitrarily like yeah you can which you don\u0027t need to you can do ASM with v3 I\u0027m just right I think and that the customer through it there are going to help you know you know of course of course I\u0027m here for you Torres just thank you thank you so much yeah so yeah the midpoint of course you can perfectly go through to IGMP v3 and ml DB - even if you\u0027d have nothing on board with ASL with SSM because your intro domain you spider film whatever good stuff you want to do in your domain don\u0027t stick to the old protocol version right and then also any mix should work and now we\u0027ve seen basically the problems in the past and so I mean that\u0027s operational experience that we you know and an embodied raft may want to mention I would think that you know my latest problems with IGMP v3 went away in something like 2010 when the last snooping switches started to support it right so I mean if we have some timeline to to really give more confidence to operators that would certainly be not wasted right so and then of course also when we are writing something operationally down then an MD document would be the place to state you know here are all the the changes we\u0027ve been doing and deprecating ASM "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "inter-domain but we really want to have you know a full internet standard for intra-domain ASM and that\u0027s basically around you know the the other draft I mentioned right so the deprecation in the domain and then these these recommended these discussions right so intradomain is fine by their premise preferred majority of customers I would think the majority of multicast deployments overall if you just count customers would still be enterprises that are using PIM sparse mode within the domain and then obviously all these things like there\u0027s a good range of application that could do SSM but we\u0027re not forcing you now but you know whenever there is an opportunity right so I think that that statement should be made because that was exactly why operator called me and basically said he was you know afraid about you know the work that we\u0027re doing interdomain really touching whatever he is doing and then we got into all the IGMP weekly discussion that stuff so how do we make the you know the majority of what we\u0027re still making money from unless and operate a vendor is is just selling to service providers right but if I look at these typical service vendors that sell both enterprises and service providers we don\u0027t want to really make the the enterprise\u0027s feel scared and so that\u0027s this part next slide right so now the the funny protocol list right so RFC one one one two and so this is actually the only interesting document everything else I think that we have on the list is just changing the status right so the bad ones downgrade the good ones upgrade right but RFC one one one two is two things in one on once it is the actual specification of the ASM service model for which we actually never built an ipv6 document and of course as we said we don\u0027t want to duplicate the whole ASM service model right even if the last step would be at some point in time say intradomain pins our spot is not good but intradomain advisor pin is I think always going to be excellent for you know the applications it\u0027s built for right so you know that\u0027s this is the biggest challenge here my proposal would really be to ref this and basically come up you know just strip out all the IgM p1 stuff add ipv4 ipv6 in in the rest and that\u0027s going to be the new normative full internet standard for the ASM service model my pet would be my proposal hopefully that\u0027s that\u0027s something feasible because this is something the holy grail of multicast right so upgrading RFC saw would not would try that we don\u0027t touch any of the actual content they\u0027re just you know v4 v6 and get rid of all the IGMP v1 stuff so then our yeah IGMP v2 right down great historic I don\u0027t really know the process I think the the historic process hopefully there\u0027s going to be an ad and in working group and we can discuss that next slide yeah IGMP v3 needs to be upgraded I think to full standard ml d v1 downgrade oh there is a typo again sorry this was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:02",
    "text": "all done quickly yeah so ml d v2 of course upgrade to full standard same argument is IGMP v3 yeah that\u0027s V - yeah no no I\u0027m just doing the current Kirsten so this is this is the current this is just the current yeah yeah yeah so I mean the upgrade and downgrade for all these documents is pretty obvious right so the old ones downgrade the better ones upgrade so 4604 that\u0027s SSM that\u0027s the service model for before and v6 upgrade then we\u0027ve got 35 90 we\u0027ll have to check if that is actually you know well adopted so that seems to have been an addendum to I Jim pv3 or ml db2 I think so we\u0027ll need to check that in more detail if that should become part of you know the Catechism in full standard then we\u0027ve got the most interesting one just you know from the status and that\u0027s the lightweight IGMP v3 ml d v2 which is kind of removing the nasty bits from IGMP v2 IGMP v3 and ml db2 which is the exclude sources list which we never really used so I have no experience about deployment stuff if but I would fear that that that\u0027s still far away from really being full standard right that\u0027s that should probably stay proposed and we may want to continue to suggest to people you know to use it or not at least it\u0027s part of the investigation group yeah stick here so yes the interesting thing is when you want to make something an Internet standard you actually look at the spec and you decide which parts have like white implementation and interoperability and all of that you actually take stuff out of the spec that hasn\u0027t had it that is not nature enough in general like we did I picked it with him with between I actually took some stuff out of him off its border border so you\u0027re saying we need to ref the document actually when we want to upgrade to full what I think what you\u0027re getting at is is 3590 may evolved it look like fifty seven ninety when it goes yes divots and it could be that we actually end up with being that is that out the way but there are some deployments so maybe we will find if there is insufficient well I have no strong opinions right I\u0027m happy if we don\u0027t have to go through the trouble of doing this stuff just if people stand up and feel strongly that this stuff has enough stuff then I would obviously agree that we you know do the job on that as well I\u0027m more interested in what you were saying with respect to what\u0027s the process I was hoping looking at all the documents that seemed to have been updated from proposed to full standard after a while but now you\u0027re saying we may need to erect the documents and throw stuff away so issues to be fixed probably own implementation report may "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:05",
    "text": "be a stupid RFC like they did with me wrote a sparse mode right there is one RFC that is like an implementation report and then after that they did like it took some stuff out of 46 so long to make yeah but there was a young junkyard there was a 20-year junkyard right I feel a lot better about IGMP and MLD for that matter yeah so that makes the job easier that\u0027s good jeffrey from juniper this is related to sticks comments related to the exfoliant sources if we upgrade the original itv3 ml to be two to four standard then we neither decide if we want to remove the excluding sources function and i\u0027m i was actually not aware of a fifty seven ninety if the that I with the RGV 3ml TV - is without the exclusion sources then we might as just consider upgrading that 57 92 for standard and that would be an interesting question right if I just take a GMP v3m LDV - and basically try to change the text to say that you know the exclude list must be empty right what difference would that be over 50 790 because I\u0027ve 50 790 rewrote everything right and so that\u0027s going to be hard comparison maybe that\u0027s that\u0027s one of the tough jobs to do because I would agree that if we need to arrest us that hasn\u0027t been used it would be exactly that you know exclude list having anything more than an empty list right so if that\u0027s the thing we could do to basically say oh we don\u0027t need 50 790 we\u0027re just removing the exclude list but there may be other product called simplifications that 57 90 so we\u0027ll need to check the authors list and figure out if any one of them is willing to - to help with the effort because you know when this stuff happened I was on the position of you know having worked in the vendor that had spent a humongous amount of time to get the full versions of the protocol is implemented so there was little interest from our side to basically fix this so now basically with a lot of time gone and we\u0027re trying to do the best for the IDF let\u0027s see how we can deal with it now you\u0027ve revealed way more than you should have but that\u0027s okay we did the same thing with a lightweight version of it before it was a lightweight version of it and we just did yeah we spent an enormous amount of effort doing the whole thing yeah another question is about v1 if we upgrade the v3 to full standard do we have to downgrade the v12 historic can we just leave it on why not downgrade v1 and v2 days I think Torres said they had a concern that if we downgrade of historical then we lose the definition for the IAS yeah but remember RFC 1 1 1 2 doesn\u0027t even talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:05",
    "text": "about ipv6 we have no normative document for the ASM service model in six so I think it would be definitely good to to ref you know then you know split one one one two you know just extract from one one one two the service model which is the 50% then comes the I gene p1 spec so we\u0027ll just take the first part at v6 to it something like that well it\u0027s so appealing even we didn\u0027t do any other things at all we just don\u0027t have we don\u0027t have a standard full standard definition of the ASM service model for v6 so if you want to do ASM do before yeah sure I mean some people might like that but again if I want to defend you know the poor enterprises that can perfectly well do ipv6 by derp in ASM what\u0027s the reference or maybe there\u0027s no one doing the six multicast in the enterprise no I don\u0027t think that\u0027s true I think you know the enterprises as much as anybody else are moving to v6 on the time line that they can afford right in terms of it the vendor I\u0027m running yeah just a just quick comment to Jeffrey so we don\u0027t have to touch anything else in order to move that supposed and ago internet standard it\u0027s up to us or I want to deprecate or whatever versatile one that\u0027s a different discussion is what sorry do we want to touch person one like deprecated or whatever that\u0027s a separate discussion there\u0027s nothing automatic it can make new one without touch montgome not Cisco Systems I just wanted to add one more document to your list which is igmp snooping I think even that RFC is still international so maybe it will be good to make it as a standard so that the information on that one wasn\u0027t because it\u0027s not widely deployed or so but because it\u0027s doing things implicitly it\u0027s not changing anything on the wire and they\u0027re basically these ideas policies that are saying show me differences on the wire then we can make it standard now we\u0027re actually having the same discussion with the explicit trekking where the changing on the wire is basically that traffic flows faster or you know stops faster and igmp snooping obviously does the same thing but you know I jumpy snooping has this of a layer to solution that is you know so that\u0027s a totally different discussion we can have that again with the area director and see if something has evolved but the informational was because of that sure here the questions it\u0027s good discussion thanks for listen Jason work yeah oh that that will repeat this because it was so cool an hour who\u0027s got the blues blue sheets everyone signed the blue sheet anyway yeah so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:08:06",
    "text": "PIM will be back in this room and it starts in 20 minutes so if you\u0027d like you can stay here no one will be kicking you out but come on back in 20 minutes for PIM other than that and Bondi is adjourned we\u0027ll see you in Bangkok so PIM PIM starts in 12 minutes "
  }
]