[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "okay okay good afternoon well maybe the microphone is not working good afternoon hello good evening wow okay great at least the lower is online uh grab a seat there's plenty of seats up front just like everyone always tells people so this is the routing area open meeting that's andrew this is john and uh this is of course me um alvaro um today we have a one hour meeting um it is gonna be a short meeting we have some items in the agenda we're going to go through in a second um i'm happy that we're having this meeting at the beginning of the week which is uh unusual because we usually have it in the middle or towards the end um so it gives us a chance to when we get to open mic to talk about any you know cross-working group things that you might want to highlight or things that you want to tell other people about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "for the rest of the week that's going to be a good thing so let's start with the slides next slide yes please remember to wear your mask unless you're of course actively eating or drinking something please wear your mask inside all the meeting rooms as part of the policy for the meeting and everything that and something that you all agree to when you register for for the atf for those of you guys who are chairs please remind your working groups about that we've already had a number of covert cases reported and we of course don't want that to spread to anyone else so this is the note well please be aware of what it talks about not just about intellectual property but also about conduct the code of conduct is one of the items listed there and the anti-harassment policy as well uh next slide the code of conduct includes things for example be nice to other people is basically what it summarizes to treat everyone with respect speak slowly we are not just people sitting here there's people remotely there's already over 64 people remote we speak different languages so please be aware of the differences and and in general treat people with respect and be a nice nice person of course next slide oh just to um uh just to remind everyone to do this not just of course in person or at the meetings but also as you communicate through the instant messaging as well uh you've noticed that or i hope you've noticed that miracle of course have a chat that chat is now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "tied to a new tool called solip so jabber if you still happen to have a jabber account has a bridge to that but that's going to be retired after this atf solip you can download an app to your phone or your desktop and just log in with your data tracker credentials and you'll be hooked to any working group that you want to please give us feedback this is something that we always ask and uh we don't get enough of um what are we doing good what could we improve on uh more important than giving us feedback on how we messed up is suggestions for improvement right on how can we do better in the future this is an important time because we are in the middle of the year time frame of the ietf which means that the nom-com is starting to gear up i know some of you already have volunteered to be part of the nomicon which is great please consider volunteering to serve in one of the open positions as well this year john and i's period ends in march so if you are interested in being an ad please consider running if you know of other people who you think would be good at ads please consider nominating them as well if any of you uh want to talk to any of us about you know what what type of job what do we do every day what what those are they in life would maybe look like uh please let us know and we'll be very happy to to talk about that and and tell you um everything you need to know about the a.d job another request that we always ask is please please please review documents this is important because a big part of the mission of the atf is to produce documents that people can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "use to interoperate these documents need to be clear they need to be readable by everyone not just by the person who actually wrote them it is great that in many cases you trust all your fellow itf participants and trust that their documents are clear it would be better if you actually reviewed the documents and we all made sure that they are the way this should be so please review them as part of the whole working group process adoption working on the documents working with last call ietf call at any time that you want or you can please review documents so this is the agenda for today we have our normal administrative at the beginning we're going to have a round directorate update then we're going to talk a little bit about the routing discussion mailing list and a couple of changes that we're making there um then we're gonna have peng talk about or give us an update on the computer aware networking uh work that has been going on they had a buff at the last ietf and then we're gonna have some time at the end for uh open discussion does anyone want to add anything to the agenda or change anything i hope all of you looking down are looking at the agenda on the miraco very carefully all four items just one thing to add i think uh i want to repeat about the mask reminder because i think a few people came in late and maybe didn't hear alvaro reminding you that we're all expected to wear masks unless we are actively speaking at the microphone or eating or drinking so thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "okay who's gonna talk to this i guess i'm holding the mic so i can talk to this one um uh right so not too many changes in our working groups in our area we have savnet as our new working group though and we have uh msr6 when is msr6 meeting tomorrow six tomorrow okay and sadness today there we go and i'll hand that to you yeah and welcome to ijune as um new sabnet chair yeah and then just one other note on the working group status changes um sfc is going to be closed fairly imminently we've got agreement with the chairs there and i've also had some discussion about one of the other working groups i think the next itf you'll see some movement there the philosophy is basically if there's no more active documents in the working group then rather make sure that we've got the space and time to do more work elsewhere and hence closing those groups so yeah that's a little bit from there uh sure so this slide is just uh the distribution of the working groups between the three of us in case you don't know who the corresponding idea is just come in and look for us uh but yeah you can talk to any of us about any anything especially if there are issues in the working groups um next slide so now we're on to the uh running directorate report um haumean i believe should be online yes [Music] here we go thank you for joining uh so late"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "we're bringing up the just the testing to see if people hear me yes we can hear you uh go ahead okay this would be a very quick summary on the writing every directorate next page please yeah currently we have actually 43 experts in the teams and the last time we did some rotated uh under the kind of ids now we are having 43 of them and we don't have a member changed from last ietf the purpose of this team is to give the review of the routing and other related drops from other areas and we also offer the early review of any routing area document before the last cross so all the working group chairs are welcome to request this kind of review to the doctorate and the wiki page is available and you're welcome to visit that next week please and here are some very brief statistics uh from last itf actually we just trimmed this to restart the data from 2021 and uh from 2021 we are totally having 21 early review and 53 last call reviews and since last itf there are five early review and the 14 last call review so basically this is a very close to the average number uh given the past few meetings and the top working groups are idr best and the rsr we also give quite many review on the other areas say basically on all psa and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "side drops if i remember correctly and the next uh this will be the final page and all the uh the potential result of the review would be ready with needs with issues and not ready so basically this is how the uh number of distributions for different kind of reviews and we have been looking at okay the for for the draft from rotting area this would be almost a half 50 percent of them getting ready and there there are a lot of the works need to be follow up after the review as well and basically another uh statistic for the non-routing draft is on the right-hand side for people's information and i think that's it and we will keep this updated every time and report it to the routing area thank you thank you helmion any questions about the running directorate so thank you to everyone who's a member of the directorate for you know the efforts you put into reviewing documents and just a reminder for everyone to review documents uh whenever you get a chance so um moving on to the next piece of the agenda um we have a routing we have a mailing list called uh routing discussion uh this list has been around forever it's a you know general itf list uh it's it is a non-working group list the purpose of this list has been to have general discussions around topics related to the routing area so we have updated the description of this list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "and we wanted to talk a little bit about about that with you um just so that you're aware you can now visit um in the next slide there's a link to the [Music] mailman list information you can visit that and see the whole description of everything that we put there basically the purpose of the list doesn't change uh we're just making the description a little bit more more complete to [Music] include a little bit of scoping calling out things that are okay to be posted there uh we never really had you know issues with with inappropriate postings um and also uh we are talking about a little bit more specific about the the moderator role what a moderator is we're assigning a moderator to the list ross white who's sitting over there he's waving he volunteered to be a moderator of the list and one of the things that we're doing is we're extending the moderator's responsibilities to track specific topics and to later report one of the reasons that we're doing this is because there have been topics that have come up in different places in the rowing area or even outside the routing area in some cases that are maybe not ready enough be a a working group or a boss or have a specific proposal those things should already follow the normal process maybe go to our twg for example but they are important to discuss last time in our twg example there was a presentation around the importance of thinking about the evolution of routing in the internet yes that's an important topic it is within the purview of the routing area our mission remember is to keep the routing system uh operational and to make sure that the internet works pretty much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "uh so you know topics like that are within the purview but they are not specific enough right to be considered to be a working group to just go discuss routing the future of routing but we want to track those discussions so we already have this list so the basic addition is that extra function of the moderators uh if you go look at the description it has some pointers to the note well and the anti-harassment policies and the code of conduct and you know things like that that you expect that were not there before but you know just for completeness uh we did add these two uh lists of things that we believe are appropriate and things that we believe are unappropriate of course appropriate is general topics that are related to the routing area that doesn't include things that are related to the routing area but have homes so if you want to talk about extensions to ospf you have an idea around ospi well there is a working group for that so we should go to that working group to discuss those things we also include here well the first bullet there is initial discussions of open-ended uh topics so evolution of routing for example is an open in the topic that we hope that by discussing it we will come up with more specific proposals that as a community we can discuss uh things and agree on maybe a direction that i don't know what what the discussion is going to be about um maybe announcements of conferences or events that are related to the routing area that's fine and discussions of idea of routing area specific policy or direction those things are all in scope things that are not in scope that you can see there are of course uh advertisements or you're trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "hire someone or you know whatever those types of uh emails are not not good um anything that goes against the code of conduct or or is at odds with whatever the note well talks about uh discussions of subjects that are unrelated to the routing area of course we don't want to discuss them there there's probably other working group other lists uh maybe working groups maybe other non-working lists go um discuss them in uh announcements about conferences that are not related to the routing area so you know there's a wide range of things you can post and discuss on the list we're just making it a little bit clearer and the text about the moderator there's two parts of that text one is what you would expect you know a moderator batteries list you know there are tools that a moderator can use if there is uncivil behavior for example to um to restrict postings etc you know the same things that work group chairs have for their own lists the same mechanisms are used in other itf lists and then we added this paragraph that says when directed by the routing ids the moderator may monitor specific topics and then report back to the routing area hopefully in a meeting like this in the routing area open meeting there may be a discussion and request for maybe time enter a meeting maybe you know some other time to go discuss some of the topics that are being discussed uh on the list uh this is again intended to catch important discussions around writing technology around the routing area that currently don't have a specific home that are maybe broad general"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "that are important to the area and that are important for us to as a community consider so any questions doubts concerns around this uh update to the description of the routing discussion list we hope we haven't paired a membership of the lists it would be great if you all went and subscribed to the rather discussion list as uh yeah we hope again that it's going to be more of a general discussion forum for routing specific topics and since all of you are sitting here i'm assuming all of you are routing specific topics it's going to be a great list for you to be part of i haven't seen a big volume of messages on the list so you don't have to you know be thinking about an extra volume of things to go read comments questions everyone happy can we do a wave no yeah there you go yeah okay great all right yes all right so just to briefly tee this up just to briefly tee this up um you may remember that at the at 113 we had a computing aware networking buff and we there's been sort of a lot of action on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "the list since then um so there's a short readout prepared for today and are you ready to speak actually i don't know is yeah peng please go ahead and unmute yourself and um andrew are you going to advance the slides or us okay okay go ahead yes we can hear you uh this is paulie from child mobile and it's my pleasure to introduce work of computing aware networking and we had above in idea 1 3 and there are some progress of both nexan space the first is the recap of the motivations company aware networking in that computing and network resource optimization by steering traffic to appropriate computing results considering both network and company status so it is to solve the problem of the closest is not the best based on the increasing development of cydia and edge computing providing the best user experience okay next slide please so in the camp of the use cases showed the necessity of steering traffic considering more factors besides network letters we also analyzed the gap with dynasty and the load balancer which has a gap of design for dynamic scenarios of bus approach with additional latency and should learn more resource status and there were two potential solutions including the dynamic anycast and enhanced load balancer the conclusion is that both the buff was successful in agreeing that the use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "are important while the solutions and is not clear the next size of it so to promote this work based on the above discussion we collect 36 issues in the both discussion gave responses and updated the drafts accordingly i select some of them that might be concerned by the community the first category is what the relation between can traffic steering and service deployment discovery and the upper layer protocol the object is that can you assume the service has been deployed and discovered in multi-edge sites aiming at traffic steering can be coordinated with upper layer for service deployment and discovery moreover the commuting metrics collection income will also benefit them and the second category is what's the relation between can auto auto solve the problem of service instance selection as an office solution as dinners and the road bands replies for applications or service before traffic delivery might not be optimal or valid after the handover so more details are needed of also including some extension to support multi-deployment quick interaction integrate more performance metric information this discussion has also been copied to auto wg and the third category is about the competing resource the measurement of it has similarity and the difference with network the usage of convenience stores are often more service specific the category based method are expected but would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "solution related and we also submitted a new draft for that and there also was a paper about it and the first one is that um can won't impact every router so here's a on-pass selection method might be a potential choice and the last one is about compute path can doesn't compute fast directly it is aware of the network path status and coordinates with existing routing or path solutions those are create issues concerned by the community and more issues could be formed as a github next slide please and we have updated the three key draft of problem statement use cases gap analysis requirement and diecast architecture and also submitted new jobs about convenience source modelling to describe the possible modelling of the compute resource and the usage income and as discussion after submitting this draft the instance selection mechanism might be another item based on the modeling which will which we will continue working okay next slide space so um for the next start steps uh based on the discussion and the contribution after above we won't can to focus on routing related work and here are also other issues we want to get feedback from the community for instance whether we should rename the drop to the cam prefix at the same time maybe a kang million list is better since we use die custom in text now and we will continue to refine the drafts and work on more comments if available we'd like to request"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "another wg firm involved maybe in uh next meeting moreover we will make a prog presentation in the tsvw of this itf meeting for cross-domain communication and that's all thanks and any comments so while people are running toward the microphone to make comments um i'll just say that if you do want to engage on this um the place to do it for the moment is still the dimecast mailing list and um if you do have any remarks about you know what where this work should go um if it should go etc you should either share that on the dyncast mailing list or you can approach your favorite a b with your comments so we'll be around all week uh there's a mic over there or we we'd be glad to take comments in private um so yeah thank you thank you and i think it's open mic now right right so now we got to the part of the meeting where you can all stand up and run to the mic um please before i see tony on the with his hand up tony do you have a question about can or do you have something for the open mic i had a comment if that you want that now sure go ahead so it seemed to me from the can buff that basically we mostly came to the decision that this was a load balancing problem and not a routing problem yeah we had uh load balance for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "potential surgeon but maybe there's no condensers that it is a balancer problem and considering the following work after the both uh proponents discuss more about the routing related work chris i yeah i don't i tried to get in the queue i don't know it didn't work but um yeah i i mean i just to echo what tony just said i just because you can or this isn't echoing tony but just because you can doesn't mean you should i i just don't think this is the right thing to do we shouldn't use routing to do this okay uh here here checking yes sir i don't know i should join the queue first but uh tng uh china mobile upon is my colleague who's uh presenting from beijing so the thing is uh we do believe you know this uh work is significant and involve lots of routing related work and then the techno details all have been discussed and then to make it a simple you know for for some proposed solutions like the diecast one or they even mentioned that lb those type of things you know for for the cam work it's going to uh include the both the compute and matrix the thing is that you have to collect those information through some mechanism either like the igp bgp and they use those information at based on the architecture that's going to be proposed or grid to make the decision you know for the the optimal instance and then about instance some joking paths those type of things will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "like a proposed discuss all kinds of things so from the actually from the the very beginning the site meeting that was held the last march plus the buff this past march you know though uh the hundred percent consensus on the rotting not reached yet but there are significant interest from the routing area this uh expert and then join the discussion to you know i will see a significant interest on this area thank you okay okay um looks like the online queue is ping and then ching li and then you're next uh no no i have no no comment just to wait for either okay so if you can take yourself out of the queue then and then i see chiang li is uh also in the online queue yeah can't hear me please go ahead with your comment yeah well i i think we we we have got a very uh good beginning of the game uh walk because because we have finished uh buff in the previous meeting that is pretty good uh and then uh different people may have different view on the can walk that that's totally fine and we can discuss it further on the main list or offline yet thank you thank you uh greg mursky erickson um my recollection of how their above concluded was that recommendation to look at existing work in alta and i haven't seen that proponents of this work uh demonstrated that alto cannot be used for their uh what they're trying to achieve so without that i really find hard entertain any um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "arguments on extension to igp because the problem yes might be neat solved but it appears at least from what i understand in outer that outer is reasonable mechanism and already exists and with some extensions seems to be quite a suitable uh solution to the problem which would be just one use case so i would probably encourage i would encourage proponents to analyze outer and then if they can demonstrate that yes alta is not applicable to their problem then then probably there is a good reason to spend time for the discussion and second buff thank you lingham from fishway i think right now the can both has done a lot of good work i think for future objective it's necessary to make it the scope clear and then we can focus in some specific user case such as a cloud to uh to to access then otherwise right now the some area is not very clear to to me because it's kind of it's a fix mixed with the dynasty and also we mix with the note balance so we better make this clear then what is the difference with the future work then we'll be good thank you okay next we have dirk hi i hope you can hear me um yes i just wanted to um both reply to greg but also um in parts to tony"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "um we did do updates on to the drafts uh also from some of the updates um try to clarify the positioning of doncaster's non-path selection mechanism so from that perspective it is an aspect of load balancing pointed out that it's an onpath um selection rather than off our selection which is also the differentiation we're using when looking at alto plus dns uh and and other of our solutions so although it's covered in the gap analysis part now one can and maybe should expand that i do agree and we're working on that and we have some work that we would like to integrate where we looked at a comparison between one parts and off parts which may answer some of the questions that greg had had as to why um half-past mechanisms like alto do not suffice for the use case that we have in mind so the the the work has been progressing that's the message i wanted to give um there's more work to be done um but we're not ignoring our i mean i also want to make that clear although has actually been even in the version zero already of the gap analysis back in march or even last year already i think it was listed already so it's not that we're ignoring it we're working on making it clearer and and also adding potentially references to um quantifications that come from um work that has been done you know on these aspects so so you know that is happening at the moment and we hope that some of the updates actually have clarified that thank you okay we have two more people in the online queue and then you'll be next so uh pang is next please the auto issues uh we address this is in the analysis chart and we do have some discussion into uh auto rpg and at this stage i think this is might also be open because uh auto also need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "do more work than to to see uh if it can meet the requirements or can and reply to used uh link hands uh problem that uh maybe load balance in fact uh is a different aspect with traffic steering of can in fact we also have the comps in the in above yeah or one is for the application uh to to uh to meet his requirement and another is uh overall um overall promote of the results yeah that's all thank you okay thanks uh changly by the way i would um before before you start to talk i'd just like to um say i'm glad that we're able to use this uh you know meeting time that we've got to have this conversation this is also the general routing area open meeting so as alvaro noted earlier this is open mic time so if people have any other topics they would like to bring up they should also feel free to approach the mic for that um with that said ching li please go ahead yeah thank you thank you john like uh it's really good for us that we we still have a lot of work to do so it's really good and we do we do have done some work of the gap analysis and we we do propose a new draft uh and then if possible please read the draft and and we we do we will be very happy to see uh guys to reply to the email that we are answering the issues that would that would make the work more effectively thank you yeah hello hello my name is george carl"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "jones i'm working for huawei uh just a comment um uh you know i heard some opinions that during the 113 that it was proposed you know that can't should be based on a load balancing solution but that's not the case from what i remember there was an open discussion there there were two actually proposals that could actually work towards solving this issue one was load but balancing the other one was routing and that was an open discussion so it was not decided that load balancing should be the direction just for clarification and i'll just mention that of course we've got minutes of the meeting and recording and so on for anybody who wants to go back and review um linda please go ahead uh this is linda dumber from futureway since john you mentioned that we can start other broader discussion i have a question so i heard people talking about low balance right so but if you look at load balance there's there are three load balance there layer four load balance there's seven load balance right um in routing domain we always do ecmp right that's kind of low balance your balance between multiple paths so if my question is really can routing area take that kind of work like front end multiple paths balancing balancing among multiple paths would that be part of routing area because you do need the routing information and then the distance matrix and the destination matrix that's my question to them to the group this is a question that anybody can answer i don't think it's just addressed to the people sitting up front and i don't have like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "i'm not sure i i think the answer is it depends right um because like you said there's there's load balancers that exist pretty much up and down the stack and things that are close to routing probably belong in routing and things that that aren't don't you know um which is maybe not a very satisfying answer but i think i think we have to take things case by case so so um actually that's a that's a good answer in a way that load balancing if you look at traditional load balancing balancing the service instances and they have instance right behind the load balancer balancing among them that's definitely not part of the routing work right so but if you talk about network like network wise balancing among multiple paths you need protocol to exchange information maybe that's more closer to the routing area than the other areas so it's where can we start this kind of discussion and then debate how about the routing discussion mailing list okay thank you so so just to uh really quick so um there's the related topic related to can of course in the then cast main list as well right whether this question is appropriate if there's already a list please go there and the other thing i mean to add to what john said about it depends sure is wrongly technology fit in the routing area yes does routing related technology yes what is the specific proposal right we can't answer a definite anything else besides maybe unless there is a specific proposal right so if there is one um you know the community and everyone else can of course consider that and we can all decide whether uh it does fit or or more importantly whether uh people want to do the work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "which is what we should be deciding right next kenji uh chandler mobile again uh i can give you a real example about the lb load balancing not going to work uh if you look at the latest 5g architecture and then you can consider like the the upf and then there are a trend to lower down the upf to be d upf toward the edge side so if you consider this type of things they are going to have the compute as mentioned by my colleague pen the compute can be distributed across different areas like in local data network in dn owned by by mobile operators or even in public cloud side so they are also a trend in 3gpp to put some to the compute in some area even in the the core side the core network uh location side so if you consider everything together and with the skill of the number of the dupfs where are going to put the lb how are you going to process or deal with the dynamics of the the compute the load and also the the migration the quick migration of mobile subscribers so the thing the work can only be handled you know put everything together in a holistic we it's not just like uh i'll be yourself thank you greg mursky erickson again so since you mentioned that this is open mic and anything that seems to related to uh routing area um we had uh this um interim meeting uh in rtg on context addressing and i found very appropriately noted that work on oem usually often lags behind other documents and often the documents and technologies news introduced without"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "defining their uh tools or extensions to existing tools preferably that help operators to work with these technologies so uh what i would like to discuss remember here start the discussion of what can be done so that these tools will be developed in step for example for security uh we have uh security consideration mandatory sections that needs to discuss potential impact not to solve the problem but at least to discuss and point to the direction where it might work need be done for example i found that interestingly we have rfc that specifically talks about manageability considerations for pce working group documents and that seems to include work on fault management and performance monitoring as part of fcaps so that might be a good start something to look at so i don't think that it needs to be a mandatory section but i think that some optional section uh would be helpful at least for us not to lose this and not to really get to the situation when we're about to close a group and a group never produced any oem related document thank you um thanks greg i think that at least from my perspective i definitely acknowledge the problem because i've certainly seen it in some of the working groups that are under me i think that the solution to this is something that i think alvaro and john and myself are going to have to take away and have a bit of a discussion with and then come back to you on on that because i do think though that it is something worth having a really good look at and thank you for the feedback it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "that's much appreciated and i probably would interpret come back to you as come back to us yes yes you use the the group yep and then uh we have tony and then ac in the queue so my understanding of the load balancing approach was pretty straightforward there would be some mechanism for distributing instance load out to all of the access routers and then access routers would bind one subscriber to the instance the tricky part was a global database whereby that binding from subscriber to instance had to be distributed so that if the user changed his particular access router the binding was retained other than that this seemed like a very straightforward problem okay thanks um ac you're next uh my my question is where are we with the gang models that were in the cluster that were all waiting on the bfd um yang rfc better better to cover that now than in every working group that's what that's been waiting on this cluster yep i do not know off the top of my head but i will go and check and report back thanks for asking and shooping please go ahead from huawei i'm on open mac uh here is a question to our ads that's regarding the apn working group to be created and uh we know that the rough consensus has been achieved so my question is what is the timeline for this working group thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:23",
    "text": "so we just had a meeting about it up here and we think it's reasonable to try to get that done by the next itf by 115. okay thank you and the queue is empty so going once going twice and we are concluded thank you everybody or just give up see all the stuff yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:30",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
