[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "um i think the there's a bigger picture than what i worked on i did some uh some interop with the amd um which i can go over uh but then i think the free rider uh people did some beer work as well if i remember right so it might be good to at least get frederick in there but i'm happy to supplement on amt as well right frederick [Music] are you on and would you like to give an update on the hackathon well actually the the hackathon uh took place and uh well not not yet but can you when we get to that part uh you mean but the thing is that in the hackathon uh the topic was not related to ah to multicast okay so that's gotcha unfortunate um okay can everyone see my slide my agenda slide and note well is that visible great okay so we've got a note taker um not sure if there's a need for a drop or scribe but would we want would we like one of those um warren you seem to be in the past you've uh done an exceptional job at jabber scribery"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "okay thank you warren i don't think we've had much for the jabber scribe to do uh recently since we've that's why you're happy to do it okay um i think we're getting to quorum here uh we have a note taker uh we have a jabber scribe um and i think we have all of our presenters on and we have a healthy list of attendees so let's get started first uh welcome to ietf 13 113 uh in vienna you're in the mbone d meeting hopefully you intended to be here if not welcome aboard you're going to have a lot of fun uh the best part of this meeting today is i can guarantee we will be done early here is a notewell as always please note all of these things well and pay close attention to the recent focus on uh respectful participation um and meeting tips you've probably seen this by now uh though not in purple and i'm not quite sure it came in purple but it is for those of you for whom it is very early this might help serve to wake you up a little bit more effectively uh but everybody even if you're in the room uh should be signed into the meet echo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "tool that's how we will manage the mic queue um and remote participants uh you guys have all been participating remotely so i think you guys know what to do okay here's our agenda uh we'll go through the word group items um there'll be a brief very brief update on the hackathon there was a little bit of work done uh most of it was not related to multicast so that'll go quickly um sandy is going to give an update on the uh redundant ingress failover draft um and then jake will go through all of his various drafts as well as a w3c update anything to add anything i missed anything to bash on this agenda okay moving right along um in terms of acting active working group documents um the yang models uh since last meeting there were a court um sandy mentioned there's no substantive updates uh but she is seeking uh one more really good review uh not one more uh one more round of really good reviews um so if folks have the time we would love we would love for folks to review this document sandy do you have anything else you want to add about that document [Music] you are how do i okay oh yep sandy can go okay and last year i we updated the draft according to some comments from jax and again and so we'd like to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "find more review especially from jake and again for it so thank you for advance great yep and uh any other folks who are interested in yang models we also encourage you in addition to gion and jake uh the telemetry draft um i got an update from the authors uh they are about to update it soon uh there are some several drafts upon which this document depends that are in working group last call and other working groups uh and that should be completed soon um so once that gets done uh they will update and uh they plan to present this in ietf 114. um i don't know that we have anybody else oh actually mike mike did you want to say anything else about what i just about the telemetry draft yeah that other working group is ippm it's ip performance uh group and uh performance management group and they're the ones that are handling the unicast versions of this draft and so those are the drafts that this draft has depended upon so um as they progress which they should soon then we can progress this one uh we did last time we updated this added a couple other authors and they made some good contributions and the once the other drafts do progress in ipp ippm we probably will pretty quickly after this one to be reviewed and progressed because when we submitted this draft it was actually it's one of those rare drafts that when we submitted it it's almost ready to go kind of a thing um so anyway yeah we'll we keep it alive and we give minor updates to it and we will present it as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "you mentioned at the next idea jake you have something to add there's implementations say that one more time uh when you said that's ready to go do you mean that that there's implementations or no that it's complete as far as the work in the draft is concerned i don't think this working group has a requirement for implementations but i could be wrong great thanks um then there are of course the multicast to the browser drafts the four and jake's going to provide updates on this later in the agenda or later he's next up the ingress redundant ingress failover this is a document that is currently has an adoption call underway and actually and i'm uh working group adoption call goes through this friday um so so far we've had uh a number i haven't counted but there has been some responses but we'd love to have more um please it's a short draft please do take a look and respond whether you would or would not like to adopt uh and any substantive comments as well um and actually i believe sandy is going to talk about this next so um let's see what else what's up on the agenda okay next up on the agenda is a hackathon update um so frederick i believe you said the component of the hackathon that you were involved in was not multicast related um so if that's the case maybe jake if you want to if you want to speak up about what you're aware of sure um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so i spent the hackathon weekend uh getting ipv6 to work with the um with the amtg amt gateway docker container and running that against against my own relays um so i got i did uh successfully stream and listen to music over uh v4 in v4 tunnel v6 and v4 tunnel the six in v6 tunnel and v6 in a v4 in v6 tunnel so all the combinations um in addition earlier today um saba pinged me on the free router chat and we did a bit of interop uh with their implementation as well the free router amt gateway was able to connect to my relays and success also successfully listed music over all four of those uh combinations and then um so far this was only a half an hour ago um but so far i've got uh i've tried um v4 over v4 and v6 over v4 against uh their stream and their um and their relay uh and i i have yet to try the uh the two over the v6 relays yet but that's anticipated there was like there were like a couple of bugs um so if you have both online and on um on theirs i think that that there was an update from saba i don't know like what their kind of um commit processes like but i think i think the one he's running now is uh has a quick patch in it um and maybe that'll be upstreamed appropriately uh anyway the um yeah so the the um the amt gateway docker container and the mt relay d"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "now are both confirmed with uh with them you know each of those talking to themselves and uh and to the free router implementation for v6 and v4 i think uh with with one uh set of tests still pending so and that's that's really all uh all i know about cool um so jake uh first i meant to start sending here um so jake uh the essentially what what was added and what's new and what's unique is the amt relay and v6 enabled relay and gateway you didn't make any changes to ff mpeg or vlc those just worked uh yeah that's that's correct those those just worked um so this is of course with an external gateway not the embedded uh gateway inside vlc but um with the external relay then those those just work for uh for both v4 and v6 ssm i did not try asm but i don't care so gotcha i i will try if somebody else wants to but i haven't tried it yet i think it'll be fine because for the for the client side it's going to be very identical great anybody else involved in the hackathon have anything to add any other background or commentary that is related to multicast okay uh in that case let's move on to sandy [Music] and i will bring up those slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:10",
    "text": "okay sandy can you see the slide and you are ready to go and uh i believe you should have control over the slide i think can you i can't if i can kind of choose those slides this is sure your your is sharing your screen and then i can do the control work i'm not very sure how can i do it are you able to um i think i can't no no okay how about now let me try it seems comfortable with i can't put you down no luck this doesn't work now no walk okay all right you just tell me and i'll i'll uh i'll take uh okay let me redo this again okay thank you okay hello everyone and i'm samidhan from zt this presentation is for the update of multicast redundant english router fair overdraft we have co-author greg isong from china mobile and the intern from china unicom next please hold on a second here doesn't seem to want to let me move this thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "so this is the brief introduction of this dropped usually two increased routers are deployed for avoiding a single node failure and the two ingress router can forward a same multicast flow for the egress routers which connect the receivers they can select the um edge for multicultural flow forwarding their three modes can be used for linguist routers protection for or faster switch over there are cool standby modes and the warm standard mode and the whole standby mode the three standby modes can be used with all the existing multicast technologies such as pim beer p2mpt tunnel or mrdp the cost and the influence of the three modes are different the network administrator should select the appropriate mode according to the service requirements hey seems i can page down the slides okay okay i can do the control it work now so this is the update of version there are two we added a section for failure detection according to jake's comments uh thanksgix and in order to achieve the successful ir switch over vfd or ping methods can be used for monitor the ir node fader or path fader between ir and the ers for vft methods vfd fc5880 can be used in all the deployments uh multipoint bfd fc8562 can be used can also be used for the failure detection between ir and the ers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "vfd for ampere's lcps that is fc584 can be used in p2mpt or mrdp deployments vrbfd can be used in via deployment for ping methods fpv4pin fc07 li2 and the ipv6 ping fc triple fours three can also be used in all the deployments usb ping fc8029 can be used for p2 and pt internal or mrdp deployments uh buildpin can also be used in real deployment so backup ir and er can detect the selected ir node and the path failure easily by these methods when er detects the fader of sir er master signal to bir as soon as possible or er can get the flow from bir in advance when bir detects the fader of sir vrr takes over the sirs responsibility and forwards flow two years but the mistakens which over may occur because in case only one only the path between bir and the s i are fierce and in this situation yeah i may receive duplicate flow so [Music] so this is the uh during the adoption call uh we receive many useful comments uh thanks jk and again we plan to add more information and details in future version uh we will add the signaling procedure for of the three modes between ir and er to make it more clearly details will be added for the existing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "optimization method used in failure detection for example for example fc9026 and some clarification for an vpn and now and represent deployment will be added and some language improvement will be done so also thanks all the support and we welcome more comments for it that's all thank you for sandy hey yes okay uh thank you for sharing um and just a reminder again this is still uh in the adoption call um until friday so uh please love folks to review and um and at least mention whether you support or do not support adoption of this document by the working group jake uh are you ready to talk for your next or you do you have a question about this draft i did actually have a question about this draft uh same question actually um is there an implementation along these lines open daylight or any production environments that that you're basing this on or is this more theoretical at this point in fact there's many uh yes because there's many technologies included in this structure and we have deployed some technologies such as ping and the beer has not been used widely so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "there is no beer deployment for it but there's many pink deployments for it so we usually use the worm standby also the hot standby mode for deployment so for hot standby mode there is duplicate flowing the network so there is there are it can only be used in very large broadband network so and if there is some network that is has no very large band where when this in the household the um maybe the just warm standby or code standard mode can be used for it and generally the pim is used more than other technologies yeah okay great thank you okay yeah now i'm ready lenny do you want me to step out or no um [Music] let me add your bring your slides up i think i can request i can share some pre-loaded slides does that work actually you do have the power to do that but um no i i just did it for you here uh let's go here okay now are you able to control let's see i thought oh there we go yes share awesome okay and i think i have that excellent okay um hi everyone thanks um yeah i'll be talking about the four active drafts and basically where things stand in terms of this this project for what we're doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "um what i'll be going over is uh kind of progress reports uh i had a few things i talked about um that i was waiting to see how they panned out uh that i mentioned in the ietf update um so i'll be giving the follow-ups on those i'll be going over the overall project status and uh giving a brief overview of the things that are sort of actively in progress right now i would say there's a number of things kind of in the background that i won't really be touching on but um the the sort of major standards-based pieces of it that are that i know of that are making some progress uh and then i'll conclude with uh my uh requests for action so i'd like to people to consider and uh and hopefully take uh going forward for for what's like kind of going on now or imminently um so the the follow-ups from iatf 112 were kind of negative uh i um you know the outcome of the dispatch discussion was that the uh discussion on on the multicast security document was uh dispatched to the msec list i sent out invites but uh nobody responded to anything yet um so uh that was a bit disappointing i think it indicates there's no way i'm asking for a buff at present um however this uh the sort of direction we outlined here i think we did get a little bit of useful feedback from uh raising it there and that that feedback and the sort of our thinking that went into this draft is is still guiding what we intend to do in the in the near term towards uh still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "getting still reaching the browser use case uh eventually um but i think i do consider this a mild setback for the moment um likewise the w3c web transport uh working group was i had an issue open with them uh requesting um requesting that they would add multicast as a use case from the w3c side they rejected it on two points one is that they are uninterested unless there's browsers expressing an interest and that it's also premature at least that was in the minutes that their meeting the comments indicated that this really needs ietf work before w3c can consider taking it on so that that is driving part of the work that we're uh that we're moving forward with now as well uh lenny i see you in the queue yeah so maybe this is a question for for uh um warren as well uh advice here it seems like we have a lot of circular dependencies here uh we're trying to bring add this to the browser the browser people are saying there's not enough people are asking for this there's not enough demand there's not enough ietf activity on this uh and and yet we seem to be generating atf activity and interest um so how do we kind of break through this log jam and is there something we as a working uh and so maybe a question to warren as well is there something we as a working group can be providing as feedback to say hey this would be valuable um there's there's we've got operators have spoken up um and uh several other folks have spoken up that this is interesting and yet um you know there seems to be a little bit less uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "uh agreement um from others on that so what do you what do you suggest both jake and and um uh so for the first thing let me suggest that we uh that we table that till the end of the uh to the last slide where i'm asking for actions um and uh and because i do have one related thing that i'll uh that i'd like to discuss and we can discuss whether there's a better thing to do or what the kind of ideas are in this space but let me first just kind of paint the whole picture overall and tell you where i'm headed and what i think is the right kind of response to this but i am happy to take suggestions and feedback uh warrant anything you want to throw on top of that no hopefully you've got a good idea for the suggested actions because i don't all right uh great then um uh and i i do want to say it's this criticism that it requires ietf work first is not necessarily saying that as i understand it is not necessarily saying that there's no ietf interest it's rather saying that the work to make this viable for web transport has not yet occurred in the ietf and so the w3c web transport cannot reasonably consider it so that that was my take on it um now whether that will go forward or whether we'll hit a similar wall when i try to take this to quick that is that is to be determined and that's where i was going to to go with that question which we'll talk about a little bit more later uh anyway so in light of these kind of setbacks our current strategy is to begin some uh we're aiming to do some production deployment that's going to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "the deployment of uh so i i don't know if it'll be inner domain in the very first run but we are aiming to do some inner domain multicast production deployment uh without browser support under the understanding that in the long term we still are going to need to get to the browser but we think that you know in the in the beginning i was kind of thinking in terms of um if we can get some browser support that's that's there on the way then this will make it more attractive to isps which i think is true however i think the other way also goes the other way around also applies if we can make this uh if we can get some traffic running uh in some real isps then it will make it more attractive to browsers um so you know as always with multicast we have a chicken and egg problem and we're trying to address it and we can address it kind of on either side um but i think that they they support one another right first you make a thing that's not quite a lizard but also isn't yet a chicken and that lays an egg that has it that grows into a chicken right so um anyway uh we are we are not abandoning that effort but uh i do i do consider this a a minor setback but i think this is not unexpected when encountering security uh feedback for the first time so that's that's where that stands um so in terms of overall project status uh and this is kind of the um you know the akamai funding-ish view uh we have moved this project out of r d and into a product team and we're trying to now uh find the right set of partners uh or even single partner to take this forward into a production run uh that we can start deploying but we think we've convinced ourselves that this has a real business case um and that that's not uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "that's not quite the same as as me engineering hacker uh saying it sounds like a good idea that's more like the people who tried to shoot it down uh because that's their job you know i ended up concluding that okay this probably is worth looking at in in more detail and provided we can get some partners the intent is to go ahead with this as of now so we are um we are in talks with a few partners uh and uh and looking to make that work out if other people think that they'd be good partners for those two then we'd be happy to to engage with them as well uh so anybody here that wants to um that wants to ping me about that please do feel free and we can talk about it i can get you in touch with the right people um so uh yeah we're aiming to get like some traffic running uh within the next one or two years um probably we'd start that out in uh you know some some limited networks um for the first few runs and then uh expand it out into the generalized inner domain stuff at least that's the plan um and we are we are still aiming to uh to address both software downloads and video um so that is uh that is key to to kind of making those peak offloads be actually addressable for for the networks and for ourselves um so uh in terms of getting to the browser ultimately which we like i said do you still consider a very important uh thing to solve in the end um i we've just started uh a a a draft that tries to extend quick this tries to build on the quick multi-path that was very recently adopted in the quick working group and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "it's i mean it'll be different because it's going to be multicast but it actually has kind of a lot of overlap with the the kinds of things they're discovering in the quick working group about about multicast as they do the implementation and evaluation so we're hoping to leverage some of that work and we're also hoping that this will actually make it simpler at the application layer because it's going to be at least mostly transparent to the to the web applications that would be making use of it so they don't they won't have to do anything special except maybe like enable it or disable it at the high level and sort of permit the underlying stack to use multicast or not use multicast but that's the intent the intended direction we're going uh as a rough overview i i have the link to our github repo where we've posted a an early version of the draft that doesn't have much content it's just a like the abstract and intro and outline and a few consideration a few security considerations including the link to the uh to the other document so none of this is adopted and there are many ways this can go wrong but this is our current plan for how to to move this forward um we'd be baking it into quick so it's going to be built on a on a unicast connection as your sort of anchor that provides all the security guarantees and probably uh in a similar way to ambi the um you know stream of hashes but that'll be um you know instructing the client to you know if you are uh willing and able go ahead and join this multicast stream you'll be receiving quick packets they'll be encrypted uh they'll um hopefully match up with our uh with our security considerations uh for multicast uh insights and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "and then they'll be interpreted as as you know just just another uh unidirectional data stream on the quick side so we think we can transport or we think it makes really good sense to transport uh unidirectional web transport streams from server to client this way and also probably h3 the the server push uh for web objects unfortunately browsers are removing the server push cache um and the server push feature uh from browsers right now um however uh through the web transport um unidirectional streams it still should be possible to kind of implement that yourself as inside your web app um so you know ultimately we'll hopefully have demos of this and and some stuff running and a coherent document to present um lucas pardue has agreed to co-author this he's the he's the first author on the um on the other multicast over quick http draft this is a little bit different because this is going to be operating at the quick layer whereas that one was operating at the http layer um and using alt service whereas this one will be using quick frames there will be new quick frames uh kind of loosely based on the on the multipath approach but this this is where we're headed uh as a very attentive target which i probably shouldn't put in because this is perhaps optimistic um i was hoping to get a prototype and initial spec uh to present in july to the quick working group we'll see how that goes this could be superseded by the by our if i have to spend a lot of time on the on the partner deployment efforts uh which actually would be even better than than this in terms of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "making this project a success um but i do think that this is an important thing to uh to have on the roadmap for how we get into the browser and this is our current kind of plan so this could slip but i am hoping to have something coherent to present in july uh and if not then then maybe later this year uh yeah so that's that's where the browser effort stands want to say thanks to max for a bunch of feedback and pr's on the ambi uh draft uh that is slowly coming into shape i've been a little distracted and haven't haven't done a whole lot on actually advancing these documents i've been working more toward getting deployment to be viable um but it is ultimately obviously going to be very important to have this well documented um and i think he's uh his contributions have really helped to shape it up uh and um yeah it's still kind of undetermined whether the quick will reference this one or do something a little bit different but similar or what exactly but that'll be kind of hammered out as as we get the quick thing further along but i was really glad to see that ambi is actually progressing a little bit uh which was nice um in other news the uh we have still been meeting regularly at the w3c multicast community group i encourage you all to join uh there's a there's a link to the w3.org community multicast uh here um and even if you're just on the mailing list um or if you take a look at the meeting minutes or recordings then you'll be getting monthly updates on this so if you're interested in watching then uh then keep an eye on it uh meanwhile um you know i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "getting some code contributions from some of the uh some of the multicast community group members which i'm really pleased about so thanks in particular to gavin henry uh for some of his work on live mcrx he's uh he's taking a look at adding windows support which is great but what we've already upstreamed from that was was integration the cicd pipeline integrated coverity uh scanning so it is now scanning for uh problems and and uh vulnerabilities that it can do with static analysis and uh it found several errors that we that we fixed in libmcrx so that is in better shape now than it was and rates to remain in better shape as we extend it further um that's a that's meant to be a cross-platform ssm received library and i frequently use it for for my testing um but we can go into more details about what that has i've talked about it before in the group but not recently um [Music] yeah so in conclusion the uh the things i'd like to to consider doing as a working group uh for one i'd like to go ahead and start the dorms last call i think i haven't had any more uh reviews um so if i'm not going to get any then i might as well go ahead uh i think it's in reasonable shape if i remember right um it's uh uh i i didn't actually read it all the way through last month um but uh uh last i looked uh i didn't have any notes left on it i think um i believe i've i've incorporated all the comments that have been made so far um second is i'd like to make dorm's ambience back into a cluster so that the they can refer to each other and get handled in a sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "clustering way for the rfc editor if anyone is able uh please do post to mseq at ietf in response to the discussion about the security considerations document um i think even just asking stupid questions and getting some discussion going would be a useful uh expression of interest there and uh and we might be able to learn some things and understand more about uh the right problem space especially if we can get uh any any of the existing security experts on that list to kind of engage as well um so for the other is that um mna i think the only feedback i've gotten so far was that it looks pretty good well thought out um you know i i looked through it and there's uh there's eight things i have marked as tbd's uh i did not actually address those but what i propose is that i should address those eight dvds and then uh and then open it up for last call or at least get some more reviews going um you know one of those uh and i i don't think it's had enough review honestly yet um although i was encouraged by the people who did respond so far so that was uh that was good um and then the other thing is and and maybe set a timer to reconfirm but um when they ask for conflict avoidance for the meeting scheduling let's make sure we don't collide with quick next time if we can so i can make it to both uh if that's still on the table um like i said there's a chance this will slip so if it slips then then maybe i'll want to move that request to november or something um and then but then uh and here's where we get back to the um to the original comment that we deferred till now uh lenny previously offered on the list like should we as a working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "request that something security area or uh or transport area or the quick working group or whoever is the right set of people but but uh expressed to them that this is a valuable use case um from the point of view of the mbo d working group in some official manner and ask them to to engage and evaluate uh with the work um and i think that the answer is yes once we have a concrete proposal we do not really yet but uh but if this is if this is a worthwhile direction um then i think that that's where uh that's where it would be really valuable i guess we might have something concrete to ask about with the uh with the security considerations but uh i think it was a fair point that that um they want to have an actual proposal for the protocol where we're proposing uh for transporting web traffic over multicast in order to consider um and that that is like it's it's hard to really get good security considerations in the abstract so uh so it's a fair point but um you know i i i leave that to uh to further questioning really um so that's all i've got so yeah how about lenny let's let's hear what you have to say sounds good to me nothing um i i think you covered it all you answered my questions so okay um questions questions from anyone else uh for jake so let me ask warren uh you said you were hoping i had a good idea i don't know if this is a good idea it's an idea"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "so yeah we're in quarry google yeah i mean at least it's an idea i don't know of a better one um other than just like continuing to people this is the best idea ever and hope that they pay attention so yeah i don't know yeah um i i really do think that that the interest level will rise if there are isps that are doing delivery of interdomain multicast my take is that uh you know right now there's there's high skepticism that this will actually end up getting deployed uh so i think the deployment work is the key to this um to getting that that engagement uh there might be more because the web security people are um they've had a lot of people pushing on them about security considerations that they that they don't agree with and this does expose information to the network in ways that make them uncomfortable um we tried to address all that in the security considerations document and i think it's a reasonable way to look at things but yeah we'll we'll have to see sandy i saw you in the queue i think or i'm muting maybe no because i see that you you will implement the multicast over creek so uh if multicaster will implement it we with quick so the will the amt still be used forever or um every multicultural will be on quick uh so amt would still be used for the inner domain transport wherever there's not um a multicast capable peering uh that that does the so it's um so the way that the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "the amt would still be used is in quick you would tell the client that hey client please join this multicast group um and then the client would join that multicast group and then you have your regular uh how are you going to transport that multicast how are you going to do the rpf how are you going to get it transmitted question that we always have with multicast right um so this can use amt it can also use uh not amt and and b you know it should work just fine for connecting to traffic that's sourced within the network but it also would work uh with the dryad extension um or or with in theory with the well-known ip if there's anybody running those relays to ingest the traffic from outside the network so we still intend to start with amt access for inter-domain transport but it's it should work to do other kinds of transport as well okay thank you okay i don't see any other questions for jake any better ideas i don't love this i don't love this plan i wish i had something a little bit better than well first i'll go implement a whole quick extension and then i'll hope that they like it but it's what i've got so it's at least if you build it too if you build it they will come how long have you been saying that lenny [Laughter] i guess it's the appliance as a broken a broken clock is is right twice a day so at some point we're going to be right about that almost long enough that's the answer yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "almost long enough all right um how about uh bad idea whose time has come i don't know that's no i you know people don't think this is gonna work but i think that we're really getting a crunch on capacity in some ways um you know maybe there will be a renaissance in the layer one transport at the last mile and it will make all this obsolete but um i don't see it happening so i don't know how else we're gonna get that the level of demand covered for these peak events yeah i i think it's worth noting that we're about to have a perhaps an inflection point uh for this topic um with the nfl um this this fall uh where amazon prime has exclusive rights to streaming of thursday night football games and you're going to have audiences of 20 to 40 million simultaneous viewers for three hours a week for 16 weeks a year 16 17 weeks a year and um you know the other doing that purely with unicast is is really going to be challenging so it's i think we're at an interesting point i think we may have passed the inflection point in some places there was a similar situation with the zone in italy uh that really began last year i think where they got rights to syria a which is the um you know the italian football uh most popular team and um they you know there's there's been a lot of uh press about how that went um and uh they they did do some attempt to address it with multicast as i understand it but but it seems like it wasn't enough according to the statements they made last november multicast helped a lot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "but they still have a ways to go because it was only in one network and uh and they needed to do uh to get kind of more to really meet this make it satisfactory to their end users so i think we're past the inflection point really but there's still open questions on how it's going to land anyway that's uh that's all kind of not really protocol work okay so i'm done well well in the movies uh there's always the the one person who um uh spends years uh proactively trying to save the day and gets ignored and in the end does save the planet so i think we're um we're following that script [Music] um any other questions for anybody else anything anybody wants to add before closing the meeting um for those who um for those wondering why we only well we took two hours every time i've signed up for one hour slots we've blown through that so we took two but it was a shorter agenda this uh this week so anyway um i will close this meeting and we will see everybody in philadelphia thanks for everybody for joining max thanks for taking notes and uh sitting in the director's chair and thanks for everybody else and look forward to seeing everybody in philly farewell"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:09",
    "text": "run you"
  }
]
