[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "Well, it's all set up. Luck. Good at least. He's on."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:40",
    "text": "Can you hear me talking, Valerie? Yes. I can hear you. Okay. Good. Do you wanna Present the chair slides. Do you want me to? I can do I I'm just a bit a bit worry, that, poll is isn't here. So don't have a brigade in the room. But, anyway, it's Find 1. It it remains behind, the start in time. So perhaps we should we should start anyway. So, so Alan speaks half the time. Maybe he'd come up the thing and be the delegate Okay. Okay. I saw him there. So, Good morning. Good afternoon. Every everybody. And, it's a robotics reduced a 6 session at ATF 119 and both chairs are online. And, I'm whether it's miss Law and my co chair is Margaret Collin. And, Iran will, act as a delegate the room So we shall start."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "So, Just if you usual, since an012. So the session has been recorded and any contribution any any, presentations that are made in this session are a subject of no twelve. Soul. Please note this. And, ISG direct chest to remind to remind participants about the code of conduct at ATF And, So you you it's just a reminder for you. And, meeting details, you you can find here. So perhaps if you if you hear, you already know, and, which is a way of meeting slides, can be found. And if you are online, it's you you already know the URL for Miteshko. But still And, we we need to perform some administrative tasks So blue sheets are collected automatically. And we need volunteers for, note takers. So anybody in the room I cannot see the room. So, Alan, probably, you you you you can be in a better position. I cannot see any hand the the the camera isn't sure. Oh, that's not good. I don't know how to fix Paul. Yeah. We can see half of one person and One person very far in the back, I can't identify. And maybe a third of another person. Paul's here. Alright. So, volunteers, ZuleipScribe. No. Notetakers."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "I I think the subscribe is is not needed because, let me take a chat monitor. I can monitor. Let me take a chat, but we still need a note taker. Okay. Long tears. Yes. Alright. We have Can we get their name just so that Later, It's We can in the chat. Okay. Good. This Okay. Then this is an agenda for today. So we have 5 presentations, And any Adrianne Diboshen. If not, that we can start. And first, a quick update on the, which happens from from the last ATF meeting. And, a draft the draft, Radextelespace was sent to ISG. For the publication was requested, and as it dropped, Radext. I pay reduce LP and, is in the status of waiting for write up or write app was published. Recently by a young friend. So I I believe it ready for sending to HD, and we will do it shortly. And, we have adopted a few work in group documents and some of them will be discussed issues with some of them a little bit discussed today. So She will start with the presentations. What do you say, Margaret? For decent Sure. You want to add Okay. So I'm was great. I'm that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "Okay. As the first presentation, is, an update for Digitalgram, reduce diagram TLS for reduce. So Let me find it. So UNfreight. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, this is a quick update on our efforts to make radius TLS, the DS silent, To propose standard. Currently, it is experimental Next slide, please. So what happened since last IETF Almost nothing. Well, in the last few days, there happened a few things that I didn't catch on the slide So, probably that's something that I will talk about, a bit can go to the next slide, so what should have happened since IETF 118 and what happened within the last few days, I guess. We wanted to have reviews from participants of working group. We wanted to compile a list of issues that we have experimental, drafts, 6613 as radius over TCP, 6614 Radiusover TLS and, 73 60 is radius over. DTLS, And, from that list of issues, we wanted them to check the current draft if all these issues are handled and therefore, we can actually go forward with publishing this. That hasn't really happened. I mean, we, Alan was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "nice enough to to go over the document and, have some knits. I'm in the process of going over these nets and replying to them. So, there's that. You can go to the next slide So there are some open quest and I don't know the the the the working group, opinion seems to shift around these. 1 very big question that we still need find a definitive answer to, is Firstly, we had a consensus call which probably didn't really yield a very reliable result about making TLS and D TLS mandatory for servers, end, tls or DTS mandatory for clients, so that we have Maximum compatibility and the clients can actually choose which transport they would prefer. Because our assumption is that the radius, servers the software that's, in use most of them, implements DTLS already. So there's not much of a change. And the clients, the Wi Fi controllers or whatever appliance they use, they can then decide if they already have a TLS stack in there. Then, then, then they can just use the TLS stack if they don't want to implement D TLS or if they think that UDP is better transport option, then they can just implement DTLs. So that's one open question. The other open question is should we make TLS 1.3 mandatory?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "This is Yeah. Bit of a question from the compatibility, point of view because the Original specification in 6614and7 360. Was made before TLS 13 was available. I don't know if DTLS 13 is complete yet, but the then consensus of the working group I think was that we want to have this document to just Push fee. Status, from experimental to proposed standard. But otherwise, leave everything as is at as long as it isn't broken or should be revisited because there is serious problem with that. Yeah. This is Alan. I I think there are a number of reasons for making TLS 13 mandatory and making both mandatory for servers. There aren't that many servers and If you don't implement them on the servers, The clients have nothing to use. Right, if both are optional. For the server, Then there's no reason for the clients to use 1 or the other or TLS. 13. Because, because, the common servers won't support it. So I I think given there are, many, many more clients than servers, it's probably best to make all of that mandatory for servers on that that gives clients the option and the upgrade path. So you are you're proposing TLS 1.3 is mandatory to implement or TLSS 1 point 2 and 1.3 is mandatory to implement for servers. And clients Can choose and we say should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "implement 13. But if you want to implement 12, then it's fine. Oh, Okay. I'm Valerie's next. So speaking, not as a chair, but as a participant, So I think that we should follow, guidance that was made in RFC 9 325 about using a TLS in applications, and it is said that for application protocols, both tell us 1.21. Point 3, should be supported for now. And, for new transport protocols like week. To less 1.3 is mandatory. And not tell us 1.2. So we we we should not mandate using Only to less 1.3. At least 18 if you want to be aligned with, RFC 9 325. Okay. Yeah. So I think that's, That's it for this slide or macro. Sorry. Yeah. I I think one of the questions that I have opened, I don't know the answer to, is what is the state of of of of you know, widely available open source implementation of TLS 1.3. I mean, Can we realistically make it mandatory at this time? For both GTS and TLS or only for TLS or I don't think there is good open source implementation of DTL is available. At least not for open SSL as far as I know I'm I might be wrong. I have. So there's no DTS at all, not not just 1.3. This is Alan. Because I I'm feeling we shouldn't make things mandatory that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "that there's not a good open source implementation for them because That means that I mean, I just think that isn't realistic. Right? And That's just my opinion though. I'm Sharallan left up to the screen with me. So No. I I I think that there there's a good point. Open SSL supports TLS 1.3. Over TCP. Yeah, I don't think they support 1.3 for DTLS. But they do support 1.2. Although it's been The the status of the DTLS implementation has been less than functional at times. But I believe with OpenSSL 3, it's all there. But it's one of these things. You know, following Valerie's recommendation, I I I think it would be worth saying you have to support tlsone.3, knowing, even knowing that The open source implementations can't support it Because at some point, they will, and then all the servers should upgrade. Yeah. I mean, it's a it's a but their trade offs, but, Well, one option would be to, to make TLS 13 mandatory. And for DTS, say, We haven't We we don't have enough deployment of DTLS 13 yet to make it mandatory. So for DTLS, It's okay to use DTLS 1.2. With a strong incentive to use DTLS 1.3 when it's available. What's the fall over behavior? If you implement If one implementation implements 1.2. And the other implements 1.21.3. Will they just settle on 1.2? I mean, does that just work? Yeah. Should?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "I'm I'm not as expert, but, you know, until as it works, I hope it works on detail, on details too. I'm fine with the idea of making both mandatory if we make 1.3 the only mandatory one We're gonna have a problem with people who Do 1.2 because they don't have an upgrade path yet. Yep. Okay. The last minute comment. So, RFC 90 325 such as a DTS 1.2 must be supported and the TLS and TLS TLS 1.3 should be supported. So we should just borrow this recommendation. 1.2 must. One country should should is quite strong work. So if it is implemented, it's support. Use it to list on one side. Yeah. I think, I mean, I have the reference to, what is it? 92 35, I'm 93, 25. Yep. The the use TLS and applications, RFC. I have the reference in the draft, I currently just say follow the recommendations from there, Alan, quite Bradley, pointed out that maybe I should tell which recommendations exactly. But I think it's worth revisiting that document and looking through which, recommendations are given there. And then copying a bit of text, into the this draft. Okay. I think that's it for This slide And the next slide, Okay. Now we have reviews. We have some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "open questions or some at least some something to do before we can actually Go to through the, yeah, to working group last call and and then through application process. But, yeah, we definitely need reviews If you have the time, please read the documents, see if there's anything. And Once we have completed this reviews, I think We've we've set over this document long enough that we should just Maybe even try running a working group call. And if that fails, then we at least know that we still have work to do, but I think the document is mature enough. We still need to collaborate, or to correlate the the existing documents, Alan has agreed to to do that. When he has the time. So after that, I think they're then we should be finished with this document. K. I am I just wanted to Is is Paul there in the room at this point? Yes. Because I think that it might be useful to ask for a security director re review on this? Sooner rather than later because I imagine There might be opinions. I don't know. What what do you think, Paul? Palakas. So not sure if his sector review is really I'm the best way because it is sort of random who you get assigned and it's still only one person."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "And I think you might want a little wider discussion here. To settle on this. So for instance, maybe even like sending a message to the working group so that you get a better idea of, like, on what state the various implementations and availability is Yeah. I I mean, I that actually sounds like a great idea is Valerie and I could write to the The TLS working room chair. Yes. They'd be willing to run it. Okay. I think I think that I can distribute this, document in the Yeah. We can group that is, differently related using TLS and applications. And just ask for reviews. Okay. Okay. I think that I think that would be good if we can get We really just want a group of TLS folks to So look at it and tell us if they see any issues. And then, of course, we want working group reviews too because we want a group of radius folks to look at and tell us if there are any issues I think before we go to working group last call, we should try to get some TLS folks to look at it. So if Valerie, if you can do that, I think that would be a good A good next step. Do you do you think so, Yungfra? Yeah. I think so. We we still have the reviews that we that that Alan sent over the list, this week. So think we should, old submitting that until I've managed to to put in all the reviews, but I am committed to do that shortly after the meeting So Okay. So send us, you know, or the working group or the chairs, whatever seems easier. A note when you feel it's ready. For that TLS review. And, And then we will, we will get it out to the TLS folks. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "And I think that's it. For me at least, If there aren't any questions about this document, Then I'm through. Okay. So, Adam, can you say any fence? In the room? Sorry. We're asking. Okay. If there are no questions, then the next presentation is reverse school. Okay. This is the, you know, reverse COA. Draft, which hasn't really changed, the next slide. Yes, Valerie. Can we do the next slide? Maybe not. Thank you. No real changes since Iutf116. There are multiple interoperable implementations This draft does not depend on any other documents. It wouldn't hurt to get some other people to comment on it. But largely it's it's functional. So to review, The issue we're trying to solve is You have a client behind in that. It can talk to the server send access request. Accounting packets, Now the server decides it doesn't like a user on the NAS and can't reach it. Because none of The reverse paths are routable because there's a not or firewall in the way. And this document goes Well, you have a TLS connection. Just shovel the COA packets down the c the down the TLS connection."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "routing across multiple hubs. But, those are all soft. Paul. Speaking as individual. I'm a little confused by having Both the bullet point, we need additional review and the has been shipping for 2 years in, like, these big vendors. Why are you waiting for additional review? Fine. Publish it. Yeah. So what happened was I had worked with engineer from Cisco. To implement this Cisco implemented it in some of their hardware. Hacky had tested it with the Aruba equipment, which were It's in free radius. Mostly seems to be interoperable, not that people talk about it much. But it's not that hard to have a TLS connection and accept packets on it. If you accept packets and reply, then that's 99% of it. So I'd I'd be happy to do a working group last call and push it out. And if anyone complains, well, That's what the last call is. Form. Okay. I think that's it. But next slide, I don't know if there's much else, Valerie. Oh, Margaret. Sorry. I did not see that. Margaret. I am. I was gonna say, I have. Read this document, and I think it's ready for working group last call as an individual. So you know, as a chair, I'd be happy to send it to working group last call if the Author also believes it's ready for you, please call. Yep. I think it's ready then. Great. Do that Monday. Ship it do it down. Okay. That's it then. Decisions made, move on."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "Okay. So the conclusion is that we will send this document to the working group hospital. Good afternoon. After yes. Yes. So the next presentation is deprecating and security practices. Yes. And, again, Alan, Yay. Next slide, please. So the document's closer to being done. It is Not done. There are additional thoughts about MD5 that I guess we'll be joining in shortly, maybe depending on if we get closure on that, I think it's probably a good Good idea to publish this. Along with TLS Biz, so they're published at the same time next to each other. Because they really do form a unit And this was Bernard's comment, can't really deprecate something until you have something I knew. So TLS Biz could be RFC X, and this could be rfcxplusone. And then refer to that. MD5 is only getting worse over time. It's it's a miracle of that things don't work. Side. I I can't see anything more polite than that because this is public, and I don't like cursing in public. Next slide, please. Oh, Mark Margaret, do you have a comment? Yes. Yeah. I am I would argue that it actually suggest other things than just use GTS. And that you know, it depends, I guess, how long it's gonna be before DTLS is published. Because I actually think there's kind of a burning need for this to be published as soon as possible. Yeah. And You know, if we're gonna get DTLS out, You know, in the next month or 2, we could wait for it if we we feel like it's stalling longer than that, I think we might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "put this out and then you know, if you wanna update it to Reference those other two dots, we could probably spin it quick. Or the other combined doc, we can probably spin it quick and add that reference. If we needed to, or we could reference the the original documents and the draft. Yeah. Jennifer. Yeah. I I think Oh, this Getting this out quickly is a good incentive week, So I would opt to to really publish them as together, Yeah. Because if if we have this experimental that we reference, Okay. I'm I I don't like the sound of that. I I think one of the differences between the TLS biz document and the original 66147360. Is that, We now have things like 9325, which means that a lot of the application layer TLS issues, are now somewhere else, and we don't have to laboriously go over them ourselves in document. And that makes things rather a lot better. And realistically speaking, it's one of these things where TLS biz. If no one speaks up, then the document clearly must perfect and we should publish it. So I I'm I'm happy to put some work in the next month, month and a half and and get that out the door. And to Margaret's other points. Yes. There is a lot of other things in this document which describes just how terrible some things are. Things like MS CHAP, based on stuff that came out a few years ago, which I hadn't seen until about 6 months ago."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "And the and this chat can be cracked with a laptop and a couple of milliseconds and a 100 gigs of disc space. So if you're sending their MS chat over the internet, Congratulations. Everyone has your password Margaret. Yeah. I was gonna say MS chat is not really better than plain tech passwords. And this is the stuff I'm saying is like burning fire. We see MS chap occasionally sent over the network. So it would be really nice if we had something to reference that We could make a strongly worded recommendation. To do it and not just be expressing our own opinion. And Yes. Okay, next slide. But don't think there's much more. Yeah. Changes since, last IITF 171118, maybe. Not much the original focus was deprecating UDP and TCP. There's tons of other stuff now. On And this chop, pipe versus chop. Realistically, there's a lot of bad advice on the internet from random people, don't use Pat because it sends clear text passwords over the internet. Which is Hokey, to be polite, as opposed to using something like chat where all your passwords in your database to be in clear text. And we all know what happens when people break into your network. What do they look for? Margaret. I just didn't put my hand down. Sorry. Okay. No worries. Next slide, please, Valerie. So it's been accepted as a working group document. It's mostly done there will be some updates, I guess, over the month or 2. And then, yeah, I believe we should publish this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "and TLS biz together. The documents gotten a lot of reviews and follows recommended practices which are known to the community, but not written in stone. I think I agree with you, and Fred, this is Good reason to help push TLS Biz forward. I think that's it, Valerie. There may be one more slide as a Q and No more slides. No more slides. Okay. That's it. No more questions. 1, 2, 3 hearing then. Ship it. Yes. It works. What's the next presentation about? So the next is about, open Roman So, Mark, go ahead. Hey, Vomer. Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Yes. You're fine. Okay. Yeah. I thought I would have one of mine, So Other coeditors joining us from Bruno, but, I saw him, appear momentarily disappear. But, yeah, we requested some time to share, the open roaming Internet path with, Radix. So, thank you for giving us some gender time. So Some background for those, not familiar. With open roaming, albeit that, it's been referenced in a number of, of Radix, working documents. The objective is to enable ubiquitous Wi Fi connectivity onto private networks, I guess is is the the switch before open roaming, there was, I guess, Carrier Wi Fi, using, carrier credentials"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "to enable you to authenticate onto Wi Fi Networks, using, you know, static realms, primarily, an IP set, open roaming is then around transitioning that to be able to use, any identity provider credentials which meet a a minimum level of proofing to enable you to roam onto, private networks. And so it's an open framework, for all providers. So that's, pruditus of WiFi, private networks as well as identity providers to to come together and facilitate the authentication of devices onto those access networks. It's based on familiar technologies. So nothing been invented as part of open roaming. So it's based on DNS based dynamic discovery. And with, Robsec, secured with a mutual TLS using WBA PKI, and then using passport authentication, exchange, e based pass point authentication exchange over that time to be established to TLS. So familiar technology, So Next slide, please. Of course, built on IETF protocols. So, based on, 82 on X ETH is passed point. So, 35 79, 3580. End user, identifiers based on, chart for the user ID. And so, obviously, aware of what Alan is driving in terms of, privacy issues, in his draft, but we based on a COI, 43 2. We have a legal framework"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "which is, as as a 5580 out of band agreement. And so we use 5580 location data, location info in the access request, to share the annotation, as a minimum we require the country code, to be identified where users are accessing, that's to enable identity providers legal obligations to understand, if they are operating in I'm embargoed countries, that they need to be aware of. But obviously, we've spot other civic, address types as well as geospatial as we said, Dunham is discovery based on 7585 we do recommend, operation of DNS sec across the federation. We we have a slight issue that all of the, smartphone handsets that use sim credentials, use a 3gppnetwork.org which doesn't have DNS enabled, and so we can't mandate in a sec as part of open roaming. We would have liked to have done that, but, because GSLA hasn't enabled DNS sect on its domain, then we can't mandate that because then we would lose out on the, the, already provision smartphone credentials. And obviously, today secured using, 6642613. From a rocket perspective, And as well as IETF defined, supported using, IEEE, so 8211 NQP for for querying network as well as, a Wi Fi runs as passport. And in the past, we've exchanged, you know, numerous, liaison statements Exchange between, ones from what Broadband Alliance and IETF. You know, and we we've"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "liaise with with Nudiness, CAPport, Radix, as well as dispatch. Sorry, Paolo. Just small comments. I did not agree to try I'm not sure if you're, actually referring to RFC 4035 as DNSsec. But we have a nicer one out. It's RFC 9364. Which should have bundles all the DNS references into one RFC for referencing. That's also a BCP document. So you can also link to it as BCP 237. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Next slide, please. I see we've got actually got Bruno on, as well. Now, morning, Bruno. Bruno? I I don't know if Bruno's on audio and he want to talk about some backgrounds just because I think he was going to kick off this first piece, Bruno. Or maybe not. So just some background then. So, WBA and Bruno is the CTO of, one's problem broadband Alliance. So it launched open roaming in June 2020. Then WBA published the the vendor specific attributes. For open roaming, in March 2021. In our in terms of our involvement with IETF. It was first, with with the Medina group, because it was included as, in quotes, an existing solution in the Medina use case, draft 02. So that was back in July 2022, and and that triggered us to, write a draft So, drop 0 was uploaded in June 2023. And we presented that work to Modena's back in Prague,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "we had, we participated in the IETF hackathon, when up up rowing was was used to invest the unintentional privacy leakage across the federation. And then, we updated our draft in February with latest requirements to, avoid privacy leakage across the federal and and that's because WVA has updated its specifications recommendations, and and, when Romaine picks those up as well, Next slide, please. So open roaming, very interested in the working group drafts. And the current work within Radex So on, radius detail as best. We'd like to, I guess, formally deprecate, TLS 1.1 and obviously, the discussions we're just seeing in terms of 1.3 in terms of recommendations, looking at the, sections on trusted CA indications, for federation coexistence, we we absolutely support verification using realms and and discover targets. How the when we launched the federation. It was recognized that the support of the subject alt name NAI realm, was like Paul, but there was at least 1, OEM with the sort of was supporting. Subject company DNS, an AI realm, but others weren't supporting it. And so we actually use the same DNS name to carry the realm, all target host name, and those are those are used for check for checking in terms of, COA, yeah, very currently COA isn't supported across the federation due to very well known firewall traversal issues that Alan has just described, and we'd like to advocate using reverse COA and, maybe it's a a possible future hack from, topic for us to come together and to be able to test not just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "the, current implementations, but, more wider deployments of 608 And then for a deprecating radius, yeah, we're following the recognitions on minimizing personal identifying identify for information. We would we would note that the hackathon results, demonstrate class attribute has been used in leak privacy as well, and therefore, our recommendations also cover text on recommendations on on use of class attribute as well as, CUI. Hi. I'm Fred speaking. I would love to discuss a bit further, offline subject alt name DNS name versus NAIrealm, because I think the incentive to not really use NII realm at first was that, Public CAs, will probably never issue a certificate with that attribute because they are incredibly focused on web scenarios and Nothing else exists. In their point of view, so To include that, would be great, but I didn't really have the, the point of view yet, but but but would be happy to discuss that and maybe even include it in the Right. The SD TLS peace draft. Okay. Thank you, ma'am. No problem. Next slide, please. And so, Where are we with the draft? So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "it's Notially under the individual submissions editor, but but when we, we recognize if we go individual route then ISG will ask Radix, their view on this. Sorry. Can we go back to the previous Previous night, please. Yeah. And and so interesting. We just looked at the charter of of Radix and it says Define best practices for radius rowing and rowing consortia based on experience with with radius TLS. So obviously wanting to share with with this with this group in terms of the internet traffic and get feedback from from working group on the internet draft. And and then really, I'm feedback of this team of how to progress the incident draft. Does it meet the the criteria for workgroup adoption? Or should it follow the same I IAC route for the likes of edgy room with 7593. So so that's really the feedback that we'd like to get from this, I'll group in terms of how we should be looking to progress the draft. Thank you very much. Go ahead. Yep. Thanks, Juan Carlos. Thanks a lot, Mark, for the presentation. Speaking on on behalf of the of the Medina's working group as cochair. This work has been discussed over there and we've seen, a lot of good interactions with regarding all these different topics specifically about this this draft maybe of you are aware of the work in in Medina, but for those that are not the group is starting to wrap up, and we do see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "continuation happening here in Radix. This is a much better forum or or continuing the discussions and potentially progress the this ID. So even though, we had a lot of discussions over the couple of years with the WBA regarding open roaming the how to improve the the the overall architecture protocols, etcetera, we we do think that this is a better place to to work on. So happy to hear if you have any other any other ideas or suggestions on how to cooperate with Medina, but otherwise, we We just think that this is a this is the place to continue the work. Thanks. Hi. This is Alan. So I'm not sure Radix would be the right group to officially support this if we look at the original ed your own document. It went through. I forget what it sort of went through a working group. The time, but it wasn't officially a working group document. It's just, That was the group to review it. So if I I believe if Radix reviewed it, and went, yes, it's okay. Then it could be published as an individual document because it's not really proposing a standard of any kind. It's publishing, a specification as to what open roaming has done. And so it's not an official IETF recommendation that everyone should do this So, it should be an individual draft. But, yeah, if if Radix supports it, I don't see why anyone else would of just to it. Hello? I wonder if Paul has any Any comments on on this. Spots I I mean, I I don't I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "I don't think we should try to re charter this group until we finish our initial mission at least But but I don't Like, if people are saying, well, we just review it, then it would go forward as an informational draft. That is implying that, you know, I guess you would 80 sponsor it or something is I don't know an informational draft. I'm not or we decide it wasn't the work, you know, work with the IETF could be published as an individual. I'm not sure, you know, All of those, Traces involve You supporting that choice, and I don't wanna tell about you know, 3 from the WBA that will review their their document and it will magically be published by the IETF unless we're either gonna 80 sponsor it or agree that it's something that could be published you know, on the independent stream. So, So I'm not making any formal statements here on this. I would like to, talk a little bit more to people involved and be to contact a bit more carefully before I see where the where the document should go. Only thing I do wanna say is that It was my understanding when I became chair of this group that there was a serious deadline to get things done for, to to get it done in, like, WPA Alliance WiFi Alliance, what we're gonna say? So anything delaying that will definitely be pushed down to, charging, and we should get the other done first. Right. That's what I was saying is I don't think we should reach out now. No. I won't let you reach out until until you've got these documents out. And Right. And you're ready. Yeah. But after that, there's can talk about recharting. Like, everything's on the table. Yeah. So that's what I I think, you know, we have to say we're not gonna take this on as a working group work item now because we're not gonna re charter now to add new work items. So the question is, I mean, Probably, you guys to talk to Paul."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "And see if it's a better path to 10 to ask for reviews here and move it forward as some type of informational document or whether you want to Wait. Until we get DTSL and and talk about whether to re charter this group to to work on that document. And and, I I I just won't I just want to to add another, as a criteria. So if you if you get this, draft adopted, by this working group or rather working group you should understand that in this case, you us the control Always is draft from WPA to IETF. So perhaps, I I don't know whether it is acceptable for WB because it, as far as I understand, I haven't really addressed yet. As the WBA is, mostly responsible for developments technology, and to remain in control for for the development of this technology. So probably independent submission is the best way. So the remain, This technology in control any change 8. And, of course, the booking group should review I didn't you've participant have time, have enough time with all our deadlines, We'll be happy to review this draft and make our recommendations. Thank you. Next presentation Is, 5 g a car?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "Attributes Who will be presenting? Yeah. I'm. Yes. Yes. 3. Yes. Go ahead. Sorry. I lost my voice, but I'll try. Mix like this. So the context is, essentially, if you look at, private 5 g. Private 5 g is meeting in enterprise environments. So in that, essentially, there's already a deployed infrastructure like Wi Fi, access points controllers and triple a. In that environment, if 5 g makes into that environment, how can we reuse the existing infrastructure? If you look at it, most of almost, you know, every enterprise today, it's It's a radius based infrastructure. It's not diameter based. That's one thing. Now If you can look at the types of authentication methods that supported in Wi Fi today, Right? The it's just what is missing is from 5 g point of view is the same based authentication. Next slide please. So this is the these are access architectures. The first one is the the 5 g system architecture. The next one is, the bye bye architecture with there's a client access point. Verastone controller. And it replay. Now the question is If he while Wi Fi is already existing in the in these environments. If you're bringing 5 g to this environment, Do we need a new authentication function can we reuse of the existing authentication infrastructure? So the advantage is if we If you can reuse if you can make use of the existing infrastructure, there's a natural the There's a way to correlate device identities. For example, a device can coming over Wi Fi or coming over cellular p5g"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "If the infrastructures on the back end is the same, you'll be able to correlate both identities, Next slide, please. So I think the oral the what won't accomplish is the following. Of mainly, you know, there's Wi Fi, there's 5 g. There's a common replacement infrastructure. Today, how you configure the enterprise credentials for a Wi Fi user or a ethernet user We should be able to configure the same sim based credentials to the triple a triple a entity. Reduce this to place our you can do that, you know, I think we can eliminate bunch of additional notes And, again, from management point of view from enterprise IT, it will be a saving. So one additional context is WV, you have completed the convergence study like, you know, Wi Fi and 5 g convergence These use cases were thoroughly explored in a document, is published I think what we are looking for is a standardized radius attributes for supporting know, 5g authentication methods in, interplay Next slide, please. So what is proposed is a set of attributes that that, the server needs to support if you look at 5 g ARC is the main protocol that's used in 5 g networks. It is like in LTE. It's EPS a car and 5 gs 5 gs So if I think if you generalize it, you know, there's an authenticator in the middle there's a other authentication. So That's all to it, but you can ignore the entire 3 g p jargon, but but largely It's another method. If the way you want to look at it is 5 gs. It's just another another authentication method. So Next slide, please. So this is the the overall, the call flow. I think there is a all, like, the the there's a endpoint that you use the client."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:04",
    "text": "And there's a AMFP is the authenticator and the radio server. What we configure is, a couple of parameters, the same credentials on the on the server and this is how the exchange looks like. All the radius attributes are between the AMF and, mainly the radius, so So we have defined the method, and we have, in fact, implemented this in the free radius, sometime back. So we didn't post it back to the open code base, but we did implement this in, free radius. So now we want know, essentially, some the IETF community to Open this up. I think it it it it's this should be noncontrollers. I think, you know, all we are saying is Enterprises today is only radius based in We cannot deny that for, you know, for for if somebody wants to bring in another access technology We cannot mandate that you should support another set of protocols. Are you require other authentication function. I think, that's the that's the goal here. That's a motivation. So I think, I presented this, in IT of San Francisco. Like, I think, looking for some feedback and all. Once, you know, once, hoping this can, be adopted as a working document. Next slide, please. Cheese. This stall the lastly, the, yeah, the mainly the attributes some, bits and bytes. I think the document is very well. It's in a good shape. A lot of work went into that. You're trying to do one more update, but we could not do it in time, but, but we'll do it off to the site here. So next slide. I think that's Yeah. Yeah. So I think, these are, some of the the next steps on with respect to document work."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "So, again, we want some feedback from the community and also from the chairs and the a d and Like, you know, I feel, we'll be able to take up this work so this is Alan. I'll I'll ignore whether or not it should be a working group document right now. Yeah. I've I've read the document. It looks pretty straightforward. Some attributes here. Here's how they they're sent in an access request. How they're sent in an access. Except There's lot there. not a You know, maybe some minor tweaking things like it should add message authenticator. Yep. Otherwise, the packets are sign, YayMD5. Whenever But other than that, it's just yeah. This this, I think, should be relatively noncontroversial It's not changing anything in the radius protocol. It's just largely defining new too happy to use, though. Yes. Absolutely. Thanks. Thanks, Yeah. I think, yeah, these are the types of comments for experts, you know, if you can you know, incorporate them with the specification. It will be useful, to the community. I am I read the document just as an individual, I read the document before the last meeting, n. I, you know, I I'm sure there are details that would be found in you know, having a bunch of eyes review it, but I also thought it was a fairly straightforward and good document. I think what we ended up saying at the last meeting was more or less the same thing. We just said, is that We're not taking on new work items until we get detail us out. So both groups of people, the very best thing that you could do to get your documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "considered is review DTS and help us get it out. Because we're not taking on anything else until we get it out because it's needed, I think, for June publication, and it's currently March. And we don't have it out. So So you. that would be my advice to I no objections before you're taking this on after that. have My own is, typically, we adopted my own document document but we're not doing anything with it. So we get details out because we've gotta get that document out. K. And now I understand. Thanks so much, Rakiya. Thanks. Well, I haven't read your document, but I'm a little bit surprised. I have just some clarification questions. See that BBF has worked on, this is some issues like, 5GG and they're looking for the also devices behind the 5 g r g and the 5 g r g. My question is, is your work inspired also by the BBF activity? Have your seen the sync sales for the first question. 2nd question, DMS does it support, a radius at itself? It costs knowing you. Different protocols or different authentication mechanisms just want to clarify And if not, yes, then I I think it's worth also to look in what is we didn't specify Yeah. I haven't attended BBF lately. It's been a while, but, I'm not In the 5 gorg context, is this relevant? I have to us look at it carefully. But maybe there's applicability. Absolutely. I think it's it opens up another interface, you know, in stuff you know, Yeah. Can can we support sim based authentication or radius based infrastructure Okay. I think I'm pretty sure it's applicable there also. I think, yeah, AMF but it may have to support a new radio interface. I agree. It's not a that's not the automatic I see that was intermittent and because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "was a little bit surprised and thought, okay. We could also build a tunnel or something like this direct to the radio server. Allows in some card, but if you want to include the AMF and Right. But, okay. I agree a sync SIM based authentication digits, I suppose, more or less, some more feasible for now. And in that sense, I'll feedback what I see if it fits. Yeah. But, just small comment. Correct. a I think if and you look at, P5G Wi Fi, they're almost like similar environments. Like, you know, it's standalone, like, essentially, right, what the same enterprise manages both the networks. That sense, like, you know, we can manage from a administration point of view, we can just configure The credentials at one place It's, you know, it's all set. So it's a a saving. I think an eliminate bunch of additional functions and operational simplicity. So I think I will read your draft. Yeah. Okay. Sure. You so much k. Thank you so much. So we've done with presentations. And Any other business? This is Alan. Can we please get people to review the TLS draft or will cut fine. Wow. I mean, all of you just got 25 minutes of your life back. If you stay in the room, you probably read the detailest draft in that time. Sure. But anyway, I think it left something else, Valerie, we're we're done for today. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "Yes. We've we've done for today. And 25 minutes earlier. So you have some time to read the draft as an unsolicited market. Made a good review. So, thank you to everybody. Thank Alan for being a delegate and center, everybody who, make a comments, and the presentations and, you next time, and please, review the drafts and be active in the mailing list. So Thank you, everybody. Bye. Thank you. Yeah."
  }
]
