[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:42",
    "text": "Let's give one more minute for folks to come in and then we'll start things Julian, I think we can start You have the slide control. Okay. This Hello, everyone. Is the best competition element on walkie group session. A live from Brisbane. So I hope you're joining the place. Sorry. I couldn't travel."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "Doing it well. So you should all be aware you know, as well, you should see them at the session when you private registered to the ATF. So remember that everything that is, consider a contribution to the ETF. Is subject to, IPR policy. So make sure you are aware of the policy. I'm not sure that you or your company are following the associated processes in case of it's the intellectual property related to what we discuss Pretty well. Yeah. So, There is, usual now cutoff UKVATF as well. So make sure that everyone is fine around you, especially if you suspect an harassment situation somewhere in your neighborhood. There are some people, the ETF are, there to help you, addressed as that kind of situation. So you may contact Humbert's team, to to address that. Are talk to your chairs if you want someone to to bridge our to the, like, any situation related to harassment, you may suspect. So As usual, the session is recorded. We are Also connected from remote. Like myself. So make sure that, you follow the the process, issue in the room, to make sure you have, the the the light hap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "connected to sign the virtual view sheet. To join the queue. You also have a button there or, you may use the the full app on your laptop if you prefer. Remotely similar. There is the virtual you that you may join using the SCC button on wait for One of us probably dropped to give you the floor before we speak. Otherwise, the easily become a mess. So we have Andrew but if you feel like, give him a hand, the you have the the link here to join the Yes. Apart, for the working group meeting online. Make sure you you follow the the process here. And we also have a chat. Has any other a ETF session this week. So you may connect there or use medical to another issue on Be on the session. Make sure that you are at using the mailing list. We really like it, and we need it to judge consensus when you have key steps around the about, 30 months, like, walking with production, walking with Glasgow, so make sure you share our your, comments and reviews using the mailing list. To progress document. It's good to use the mailing list as well. Most of the work we do are walking works. So The more visibility is the better, the more we may gather contribution on the monitor. Be able to judge the consensus on any issue that we may have to address if applicable."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "So the agenda I guess no one has anything to bash from the agenda. Reasonable Thanks. This time. We're not seeing optical out there. To use 1 segment routing specific session. So walking group service. So we have 1 university that's been published seen the previous, IETF, which is the stateful GPS. We have 2 IDs in the RCs. Digital cue that are pending, some references, So the binding label is waiting for the, JP V Six extension, which is with the ISG. So does with with insufficient by resolving the near future on the Update on the TLS extension for our PFS also is waiting for, another document, which is beyond the walking group, but, the the 2 month passed last call. So, also, it's in the progressive of publication. So the situation will eventually be resolved we have also 2 other documents that are with the the aforementioned, ipv6 segment protein extension intercept. The native ID, a native IP, extension of this piece up as well. We have several document, which have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "requested some early allocation of butt points somewhere recently renewed. So as usual, remember, it graph, any implementation in progress, sure that it may be tricky to changed the clock out after yearly testing, Sascha, and already first interrupt, tests. It's always better to request a layer location before implementing on doing interrupt testing. So there is a reasonable process to achieve it. So please contact the chair if fill that's your document. May require some, siliccup points. Note that there's the multi pass, which will expire in May so it would be good to resolve that one in the near future. Other items. So you should be aware that we updated the charter, quite presently. We don't have any new IRata, and there is pending, response to the ITOT at the 15. For us, it's mainly an update of document and to work item that may be relevant to to their, scope of interest So we will gather with other brochure to to provide and the date of the documents in progress, make sure that it's proposition to the statutory working group ID. So do you want to take by the floor, Rafael. Yes. Yes. I think I have it. Let me just Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "So I will quickly go over the status of all the working group IDs and open issues and next step. The first one that we wanna talk about is the Young. This is in the post working group last call stage. We recently did an update, and the pending item is the shepherd review and Julian has confirmed that he'll be sending the shepherd review very, very soon. And then we will be able to push this out to the ISG. The second one on which I'm the shepherd, which is the segment routing, SR policy candidate part, the authors are making good progress. They have responded to my comments I have not had time check that. So after the IT file quickly checked, provide my Shepherd report, and then we will be able to send this to ISG as well. So both of them are making, hopefully, will make good progress soon. The documents which are nearing working group last call and thus I wanted to call which is on the agenda. So let's skip that same with sync, which is also on the agenda. So let's not talk about that. But the other 2, which the authors have claimed that it's near near working your pass call in the past, but right now, are in the Spiet state. So please that doesn't look good. So please refresh your documents. And make sure, that they are up to date and then we will quickly be able to last call them. So a request to authors of both the documents to please refresh your documents. And in one of the documents the piece of color. One ask was add the implementation status section. So please add that and then we will be able to progress your documents out of our queue. Soon. Soon. These are documents also which are nearing working group last call, and we are just doing it in the order that we maintain in our Wiki."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "This is a check and a reminder to the group. This is the status that we have and what we in the Wiki. If people disagree and have comments, please reach out to the chairs. Use the mailing list. Let's keep the discussion rolling. And let's move the work out as soon as we can. So this is the PCC C segment routing. Looks like, everything is ready with this and There are no open comments. The authors have resolved the comments that they have received in the past. The same is true for the vendor extensions and the said algorithms. So if anybody has any concerns with these documents, please, reach out to the mailing list and and make progress. Thank you. Now the other working group, IDs, we briefly talked about multipath during the INA. So another reminder that when we ask for early allocation, I think, play attention to the timing of asking earlier location, the processes, we get, once we apply, we get 1 year, then we get a renewal for the 2nd year, which is an easy enough process, your ADs can approve them. But if you need further approval, then it needs to go to ISG and you need to explain what happening and there's a whole process. So Basically, by early allocation, we mean that we have implementations and we are making good progress ideally, your document should also be moving out and be ready for working with last call around that timeline. And so let's, push forward and we this is, already, I think, approved for 1 more extension But, we need to close and move this document out of the working group by that time. So there's a request to authors to prioritize this. And once it is ready, we will also prioritize this in our queue. And get it ready for for last call and I give last call, etcetera. The other documents which are segment routing related we haven't seen, much update in path segment and bidirectional path"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "hopefully, they are being ready for working to pass call. If authors have any updates or any concerns Please let us know And, again, a a request to keep these documents moving. These are, documents. So we have inter domain This was presented last time. There was comments, so we are hoping that we will get some updates. The authors have told us that the updates are incoming. Let's wait for them, but, this this document continue to see some progress. We have P2MP policy, which is on the agenda, and the flow spec document that we took out from the earlier RFC because, the BGP IDR working reports working on flow spec. We do So this ID still, is pending for further progress that we make an IDR. And once that's done, can push this out from our working group as well as we have brought them to you, ifet, SRV 6 yank. These are all, been maintained, but not much of discussion slash update yet looks to be pretty stable. So we hopefully, if people have comments, please send it to the list. And then let's move these documents as well. I just wanted to highlight about the service yang that the authors have told that once the piece of yang moves along. They will also be keeping it aligned and try to move young as well, but this also has dependency on the work that is happening in spring working group and the spring young model and there was a recent discussion with them as well. And hopefully, we will be able to make progress. There was a comment from our side, for instance, that the s r policy dot yank that they maintain, was not just for the device, but also for the controller. The initial discussion looks like, they will be coming up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "with an update. It has not happened yet. But once that's done, then the authors of this document should also update their model and make progress. Finally, recently adopted documents we had 2, circuit style is also on the agenda. Thanks for authors for making quick updates and making good progress. So that's very good. And even the entropy label position, they have handled the comments that they received during adoption call. So that's a good news. Keep that coming. This is our adoption. If anybody has any reasons for jumping their documents up the queue, reach out to chairs. We are flexible. If there is a need, let us know. But, currently, this is the queue. That we have in Any comments on any of the working group documents, adoption call queue, any concerns, Hearing nothing. Let's start with our agenda. Thanks, everyone. And the first speaker is Chunk. Well, Thank you. Hello, everyone. Charlie from Huawei. So, I will have 2 presentation today. The first one is about a very simple extension or here. A another scrimby. Yeah. About the, extension for stateful Pce, allow optional processing to PC communication protocol, PCP, object. Yep. So the basic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "the, the basic information is about, what we have done in this draft. As you know, that we have defined the p flag and the eye flag in the ARC, 5440, which is about the stateless PCEP, right, But in the state for PCEP, extension, which is defined it by I've seen 8231 We say that The p black and Iblack, are ignored, in processing when receiving the the the the message. So in this draft, we clarify How to use or how to process this to Flax, for further, you know, features or for the usage. So we define some a new, functions organic this. So as you can see that we, introduced some extension, which increase, like, for example, a new flag, r relax flag to indicate that we do support this kind of, commodality, in states for PCE. Yep. And then with this kind of, functionality so we can handling, we can handle the, p flag and I flag in the stage 4 PCE p, messages such as PC report NPC updates, NPS initiate. Yep. So that is the main thing of this draft. Yep. And the current state of the draft is that Luckily, we have, passed the working group elasco of the draft, already. Yep. And all the comments, I I think we have all the comments received. Yep. So thank you all for the comments. And then we yes. Does it? Nothing new? Yep. So let me, repeat again the changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "during the, I'll say, during the After the last, previous IT meeting yet, So first of all, we moved some text, regarding the delegation Jose section to the PC report message is because that is highly related to the PC report message. Right? So we also changed the mask to shoot, to to, you know, make it consistent with the, delegation, processing. That is mainly changed. If Another change is about the, Update of the, default behavior, right, there's nothing special here. It's just some, editorial uh-uh-uh update. Yes. And the third one is, yeah, we summarize some, update here. So first of all, we make some, editorial changes and and at some test. We also make some, modification such as we, Change the word specify to, you know, No. We changed the word from, classic clarify to specify, yes, exactly. And then we also received the comments Well, it's really hard to view that scream from here. Yeah. That's better. So, we also received a comment from Punxiao Fu yet. He also suggests some, text to explain more, but actually we we think that may be not native, so we didn't, set this comment but but Still, we still think Thank you. Thanks, Punzal Fu, for your comment. Yep. And we we're thinking about do we need to introduce some, like, you know, back work a comabatity tax, or it is enough. So if you have any comments regarding this, you're welcome to stand on, in line or share your thoughts to the mailing list. That would be perfect. Yep. And right now, we think the draft is ready to the next step. So we are going to ship that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "Drafted the ISG. Station. Yep. That's all for this draft. So comments or question. Especially folks who who's text, the authors have not ex accepted and, modified if this is your chance your point across? And, especially, I think the authors would need guidance on this last point. Where I think it was Samuel who suggested, that we should have a backward compatible section, and I suggested this text to be added instead. So please review that. Respond on the mailing list. If this text is enough, or do we need to expand more on this. So just to summarize, if this was not clear, basically, the issue can be said in this way that RFC 540, said that a common object header, you have 2 flags, PNI, RFC 8231 said that those flags for new objects are ignored. It never said anything to what happens to the existing objects. Yeah. So, if it were if it were to set for all objects, the things would have been very clear. So we have some undefined behavior for what happens with existing objects in stateful messages. We based on a quick check with most of the implementers, they all ignore them. So we know that in real implementation, at least existing implementation we may not have, any dire effect, but what's the right thing to do in our document Right now, it basically says to safely use this feature. You must upgrade add the r flag. Both parties should set the r flag before you wanna make sure that these two flags can be used. So please feedback if this text is okay or if you wanna expand on it, and let's make progress. Any comments from everyone? Spacety Samuel, since you provided the comments, if you have any further thoughts, Yes. Yes, Samuel. Go ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "Oh, I I just want to confirm that I'm I'm finding the change which you, through purple in the mail thread. So, So that I'm I'm Melanie. We didn't, basically, as I as I discussed in the the road trip. So it's it's better to keep it safe even maybe don't don't know what the current implementations are doing as you mentioned, most of them dealt probably, you know, at He got those the PNI Flex anything. But it's it's better to be safe. Yeah. Thanks. Good. Thank you. Thank you so much. By the way, thank you for all your support. In the working group last call. Yep. So the second topic is about the interested for PC. Pce communication procedures. So to me, I think this, extension is quite basic and important. F So next, So let me, repeat it again, the what we have done in this draft the first of all, this draft has been, you know, presented at the previous IETF meeting, and then we come here again. So, in the draft, we disc describe the need and the mechanism of how to synchronize the, information regarding the RSP between PCEs. So Basically, with this function, you you can have some, like, you know, backup PCE, something like that. Stem hot standby PC, something like that. Right? So in the draft, we provide some, you know, additional resilience in case of session failure, right, was so soft, the split brand and computation loose issues. Yeah. We do introduce some, you know, protocol extension to address this kind of, risks yet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "And with the functions, you can, deploy multiple PCE in the same term, such as primary and secondary, PCEs. Right? So, yeah, you you can also do some, like, hierarchical PCs deployment. Yep. And I don't think we need to describe the the right sign yet And the recent change is that so so first of all, I I have to thing, the comments from, Andrew Stone, especially, like, we still have one single, like, common to reserve, left to the address to now So the thank you for for your comments. It's really helpful. And then we, the second one is about we add a clarification of computing, computation loop trees spend what is computation loops and and we we do have some, protocol extension to address this, threat Yeah. If you can if you read draft. You will see that? And then, yeah, thanks for the comments. We we corrected the name of the you know, speaker entity ID, that is quite simple, but we make it wrong. Right? And then, yes, the ISP DB version number, and then Okay. It's too detailed here, so I won't going through the details, Yep. So, right now, we still have some open issues. First of all, in this draft, we state that, first of all, we have no way or no mechanism right now in the draft. To carry the, information in the open message from this PC to that PC So We may need to discuss something, like, regarding this topic, tech, tech, tech, tech, tech, To you think we should synchronize the information of open message If yes, how?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "So that is the remaining, you know, issues And then that is, raised by Andrew Stone. So thank you for for for the comments. Yep. And nothing new. Right? I would say, yeah, let let's finish the discussion and and then go to next page Yep. Yep. I think this is the open issue that we should resolve, yes, just to summarize this in, simple ways, PCC create a session to PC. Initially, we sent open message Open has lot of information, including capability, sometimes even MSD information is included. We allow a lot of information from PCC to send to a PCE, during initial open, open message exchange. Now when that PCE creates a session to another PCE, and it's delegating an LSP that it received from the PCC initially. That information, we don't carry it to other PCs. And this in loss of information could have that some PCs have different set of information than others. And that might have some computational impact. So this was a very good point that, Andrew highlighted, which was missed in the document the authors claim that we can keep this open for now, we can just say that yes, we recognize that this information is missing, and this document is not specified Waying how to do this. And maybe a future document can do that later. So the first question that we have for the working group would be is this okay? Can we leave this open? And if we cannot leave this open and we should solve this, do you have any suggestion I was briefly talking to the authors and this one suggestion that came in if you wanna do this, would be that once you delegate an LSP, maybe create TLV and put everything that you receive in open into it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "Seems a little hacky because open message usually is is exchange once Here, we will be doing it per LSP, Another option is do we do one notification So there are ideas, but none of them is very, very straightforward. Yes. But right now, the authors were saying that, most of their issues are solved. What they care about was the the split brain, the computation loop, that can be solved with the mechanisms that already there? Can we leave it open? But if the working group disagrees, then we can direct the authors to handle this as well. I already see a queue forming, so please, take Andrew, go ahead. And take your comment. Yeah. So thanks for taking the suggestions into the document and update in that. Really appreciate it. And I also feel a little bad that I didn't noticed the open message missing earlier because, obviously, you're not doing it last call is kind of a significant thing. So I do recognize that. I think, What I'm struggling with is that to do state sync I mean, properly to have all the sufficient information, you need that open message contents, And so my concern is it's almost like it's going, you know, the 95% way, and that remaining 5% is being overlooked. And How to do that remaining 5% to carry that open message? I think simply, like, you know, that proposedly you just mentioned about carrying an insight of the delegation report. I think, yeah, that does feel a little hockey. I do think that there's other ways to do it. Now whether it has to be done in this document, I yeah, as the working group, we're gonna have to decide think my concern would be if we don't put it in here. And we don't include that as part of the solution. What other gaps are we potentially gonna miss? In terms of how we do the message exchange between the PCs. And maybe there's other state information that will pop up later. And And so I I'm still kind of on the fence about it. I do see you know, how we could go about it, potentially some form of notification message? That's carrying from PCE to PCE. And we believe to find the not necessarily"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "new message, but maybe a new object that's carried in one of the existing messages. There will have to be something new here, but exactly what. I don't have a concrete kind of View on yet. Thanks. Etcetera. Trans John's Cutter. Yeah. So my kind of silly question is, my my assumption is that you would See, that this is a pathology that you're describing, not an expected behavior, and that it happen? Like, maybe if Vic configuration or something changed on the PCC subsequent to the establishment of the 1st session, before this afternoon of the second session, is that kind of generally Correct. This could happen in a regular case as well because we have the cases like primary secondary, and there might be one PC, which is primary. So even in a normal case, you do not have a direct session to the primary, so you have a session to one PC, that PC sub delegates to this So what happens is if I had a direct session, I would have the open message information If I have an indirect sub delegation, I don't have that information. So this is not like a scenario which might happen. This is Missing. Is a will, not a month. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. So I guess my take, And I don't think you should give this any special weight. But, I mean, what I I think I'm agreeing with Andrew, which is that, you know, having identified this this gap. It's a lot better to, you know, do a finished spec, then, a 95% complete spec. Before closing it, Yep. Good. Thank you. Thanks, Andrew. Anybody who disagrees And apart from the authors, of course, if there are anybody disagrees, who who wants to push the document out right away, this is your chance to say something Otherwise, that would most likely be our direction to authors to accept this and come up with a proposal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "And, suggest, Andrew, if you have thoughts on what would be the best way to do it, please continue that discussion on the mailing list, and that would be perfect. Perfect. Make progress. Yeah. I'll I'll definitely try to come up with some kind of text ideas And then just to kind of recognize also for the working group that Reason why I did say 95% is because the use cases described in the document Right. They can be accomplished with the document as it is. You in the case of, for example, what information's carried an open message know, well, depending on the use case, there's obviously, you know, depending on the feature set. There's different contents carried. In other use cases, the lack of that open message is really breaking, but in the existing use cases defined on the documents, it's okay. So I feel like, yeah, I'd I'd leaning towards, it'd be nice to just cover that generic weight of carry it make sure that we don't have to revisit this. Because some other use case happens to run into it. Yeah. with So okay. Anyways, I'll, definitely follow-up other text, and we can try to figure that out. Good. Perfect. Thank you. Thanks, everyone, for your comments for this document. Let's make a request. Thank you. Thank you. And I think it's you next. Thank you. Okay. So this is for the point appoint as our policy. You can also look just Thanks, Drew. So first thing is that we had, we have 2 new authors. And one author is removed. So we shop and a new from Cisco, are now working on this draft. And specifically, again, Andrew, has been very active on this draft. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "special thanks to him. And I'm guessing you are still awake, Andrew. You got the coffee pot going on and then out of our way. You don't need to respond to that, by the way. I can go to the next slide, that This Okay. K. K. Alright. So we finally do have a RFC. For a spring. And that specifically talks about what segment routing and the replication segment is all about. Yeah, we encourage you to read that one so you get a better on standing of how this piece of solution should be working. On the team side, we do have the as our point to multipoint policy. And that's going along. I think it's very close to the last call. So that should become finalized as well. Again, on the team side, from OEM perspective, there is a ping draft that is only for MPLS. It's not for the SRV 6 in cap. And that's going well too. I think that's gonna be ready for the last call. For the overlay, when it comes to the MVPN, EVPN, there is also the draft that you see here in the IDR, in the best, sorry, And, you know, that has been implemented by couple of vendors anyway. So, I mean, that seems to be solid as well. And the PCE here is a draft that we are working on. Guess before I go to the next slide, one comment is that when it comes to the PCE draft, there are multiple vendors that are implementing this So please, please, please have a look at it if there are any comments. Now is the time. Because as you folks know better than I do when the code goes into the database, to change that code is gonna be very, difficult. So, you know, in the next couple of IETF, any comments, any in improvements that you folks think is necessary for this draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "Bring it on since the implementation is ongoing. After that, it's gonna be very hard to change some of these as stuff in the draft. Just a reminder, I know I keep presenting this slide over and over again, but just you know, to make sure it has sync into everybody that when it comes to the point to multipoint, s r policy, a little bit different than the unicast and the unicast the candidate pad itself is the LSV, if you will. On the the point to multipoint policy the candidate path contains 2 path instances. And these path instances are actually the point to multi point LSPs. So the reason that we did, the 2 path instances under the candidate path was because of global optimization. Multi gas, is a little bit different than unicast. When it comes to the global optimization, you wanna make sure that, you set up a second tree And then you can, go from the first tree to the second I know there was some comments. You know, I think by yourself through about this, so again, if we want to talk about this now is the time, but just to ensure that you guys understand that the LSP concept on the point to multipoint as our policy is actually on their these path instances. And other than that, there's a little bit of separation between the policy self and the data path, their replication segments, when you configure the policy on the tree, on the head end, on the root, then you need to go and configure the replication segment throughout the network. And really the source routing perspective of point to multipoint policy, is between the replication segment. So if you have 2 replication segments, That's where the source routing comes into play. And then you can use unicast the s r policy or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "seat lease, if you will. To connect those 2 replication segments throughout a unicast domain with each other. So now with that said, I mean, some eye candy just to make you folks you know, go read the draft. I'm not gonna get too much into detail here. But one thing that we did change was these path instances to make the tree more visible throughout the entire network. Previously, the path instance like the LSV object was actually, the ID was assigned by the PCC Now we actually made the ID of the patent instance to be assigned by the PCE. So one thing that this brings into the picture is the fact now since the PC is configuring the the path instance ID throughout the entire network, you can use the same ID on all the replication routers. And that way you can identify your 3, uniquely, throughout the network with this path instance ID. Where previously you had to go on the PCC. Each PCC would have as, you know, create the brand new path instance ID, and it would have become very messy if you wanted to identify that tree and to, and throughout the network. So that's one of the changes that we made. The second change that we made, is when it comes to deleting the Canada paths and the path instances, we try to make some kind of optimization in there. So if you try to delete the candidate path, you can actually set the path instance instances as in I mentioned previously, you can have multiple path instances. So you can set the path instance ID to be 0 and then you can completely delete the candidate pad and all the path instances on their candidate pad or if you wanna do global optimization and you wanna delete one one of those path instances because the other one just Scott configure. You can actually put the patent, since the ID"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "And, you know, you will actually delete that specific, path instance throughout the entire network. So the other thing is that we try to not reinvent the wheel. We try to use a lot of unicast concepts here. I think, you know, you guys can read through this the main message here is that some of these, TLVs, when it comes to the encoding is a little bit different for point to multi point policy compared to unicast. So gonna use the same TLV numbers because we did not wanna reassign the INA and A, TLV numbers, but the encoding when, you know, the, the, when, when the router is talking point to multipoint policy, encoding for those TLVs are gonna be a little bit different. I don't know whether that's acceptable or not, but, I mean, you know, talking to the team. That's one thing that we are doing here. Just to make sure that we are using the same TL VIDs and the same concept that unicast. So, when it comes to the CCIs, same idea. We kind of wanted to bring into, FlexAlgo and multi topology concept into the tree seat. So we are using some of the, concepts on the unicast with the PCE, PSEP extension draft. So we are using that object again in end policy to bring this multipath, topology concept into the, into the, multicast domain as well. So, I mean, yeah, again, we are working very hard to implement this. Multiple vendors are implementing this we are definitely gonna start asking for some TLV assignment. in the next IETF, pretty soon to make sure that, you know, we can bring up these concepts between multiple vendors And as I mentioned before, comments, comments, questions are more than welcome, and this is the time. Thank you. Any common questions?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "Any questions? Can you go back to the site where were talking about the TLVs. we had we I was just checking your document as 1, Yeah. Yeah. Are we saying that even the format of the TLVs have to change? Or or the format is the same instead of current description of those TLV says, it's it's stores the SR policy name. It doesn't say unicast. It doesn't say multicast. It doesn't say anything The description is it's currently stores their SAAR policy name. And I think you are using the same TLV with the same format just it will store the P2M PSR policy name. Is that correct? So exactly. So, I mean, 134 are gonna be identical. From what I remember. I mean, don't quote me. It's been a couple of fix. I think number 2, is the one that for the candidate pet identifier, we need to use the root ID So number 2 is the one that, is gonna be some changes in the in the TLV. I think if there are changes in the TLV, I I don't think you should be reusing the same Type. Let's discuss offline and let's resolve this. One question I also had when I was reading this, was If PC is always allocating instance ID, does it have any impact on stateless model, So far, what we used to do is, of course, our focus here is of on the stateful side, that's what you guys are on implementing as well, but does it have any impact on stateless? Can I still ever start from a PCC, request for parts to be computed at PCE and return some things back, not in a pure stateful model? Yeah. So the draft when it comes to the, what do you I am running out of words here. The the part that actually says the message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "I don't know what you call that part of the draft that actually says, here's a message. First message you need to send here's the second message. It actually has Just one second. Is the door locked by any chance? Can somebody check? Getting a message that door's locked. And people can't get in. Oh, no. It's so kinda Yay. Go Sorry. ahead. I would be more worried people wanna get out than, you know, getting multi gas visually puts people in the sleep. But anyway, So, yeah, we we actually, specifically, the main use case for this is for the PCC to initiate the the Tracy. Point to multipoint path. So, yeah, we have ensure that actually this works with the PCC initiated concept as well. Yeah. I was more thinking of pure stateful, but I think most likely it will be out of scope. And maybe we just need to write that in the document. But, you know, Andrew, go ahead. Yeah. I was just gonna jump in. I think you guys were talking past each other. So in terms of state list, Because of the replication Segments have to be delegated down to the tree after computation. That effectively makes it a stateful solution. Okay. And so having a stateless on the route doesn't really have much value because you still need to have state full in the forwarding plane on the transit. Got it. But like Hooman mentioned is that it's, yeah, it's PCC init driven, but it's still a stateful. So there always has to be delegations, essentially. Yeah. Understood. Understood. That part makes it clear for me. Also six authors, you since you added 2 authors, maybe This is the at the same time where you're adding authors. Please look at the limit. We have 5 authors limit. Let's respect that. That's underserved. I, again, lots of people are contributing to this. So is a tough call, but, yeah, we we understand. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for presenting."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "Be next to a circuit style. Samuel. Hi. Yeah, I'm Samuel Cito from Cisco. I'll be there something down about extension for sick, Circular Policeism, the house of out of out of It was presented already in the past. So all of these have the motivation shall be, and some piece of extensions, interviews, and changes we kept on signs last presentation this doubt is extending pieces to satisfy requirements of connection oriented roundpoint of services, using segmented out in policies, also called set self absolve policies. There is also another draft in sprint working group we give this covering of our concept of CS policies. So I don't want to go into details. This draft is extending piece of to be able to encode the information about Oh, these are then to end up consistency So PCC can specify in PC ports of when PCs out very compute the path or the the the part computation should be worked completely the second part is second part of the draft is introducing the way to specify whether a straight part is very quiet or whose bodies are acceptable as well. Even I mentioned that the extension that introduced to support CS policies or CSsl policies, but extensions are done applicable in general to other setup types as well, and it and other use cases. The the Intel is new deal in the LSP object, for let us take the computation behavior on PC to achieve the persistency"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "in the TLB, we have 2 flags to adjust the behavior. So for example, whether a predator is allowed to explicitly trigger the part commendation on see what a better the a better the documentation is blocked completely and, basically, no part updates are expected from PC second part of the draft is clarifying existing old plug in the object. For a segment routing in stable messages, and it was originally defined only for RSVP and it is that there are these introducing similar for, like, 1st date for in, our speech, then we'd select the only the last pre object. The last part, there are 2 capabilities which were introduced in state for PC capability. Are we to advertise support for these 2 extensions. Now the actual changes we'd hit on since last presentation or the last or the, I did one on the 816. The development is adopted by working group, capabilities, in state for PC capability, TLV, that are the some details were done for the processing of the packet and completion POE. Introduced in the in this left So, for example, if multiple instances of the TOB, are improving in. Let's see what should happen and and things like that. Then the manageability and security sections validate and some minor comments were addressed as well. And the last part of the, you know, the on the call point allocation work done, and the developer. Update it with those now the internal tests are possible. So then thanks for listening. Any comments, any questions, and welcome. If you are aware about any existing implementation of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "extensions, introducing this draft, please let me know, and I can take it in the draft. And because of any any changes then anything else would be for any use cases, which you can think of that this doubt can be used. Please let me know, and I can document them as Thanks a lot. Wanna thanks, Samuel, for making very quick updates and handling all the comments. So thank you. Any comments from on the latest set of changes. No comments. Let's move to the next presentation. Thank you. Thing. Just one second. Let me Check this night's Yes. Hello, everyone. This is Tranche from DC. This topic is about the PSAP extension for the flat banded latency. This is the updates formed their last versions. This is, presented this was presented at 1 14116 And thanks for the comments from the meeting and the mailing list. And there are the main updates from the version thereof. Is many about, their, we have a neither to my knowledge is, with your husband to requirements in, with the that letter working group, for example, there deterministic latency information. And the second, we have, a 9 the requirements and control plane in that networking group under, we have added their their clarification for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "their, piece up to gather their ventilator capability by the underlying, IGP, extensions. For example, the the ISS and is this under the SPF. And, finally, we changed the detections from, deterministic path object to deterministic past EROS sub object as, do suggested So let's, quick recapture the piece architecture. The first part is we have proposed the 2 metric object, for example, the the N2 and the bench latency metric and the N2 and bandylatency, jitter the latency variation, the digitor, metric and their we proposed their their, the flag for, 2 indicator the, PCC to request the PC to computer, the domestic path. And the WeWork so, their, second part of their piece up, extensions. Many, they're, me did a mistake pass, erosat object. We proposed a new object to indicator. There are there are, there the domestic, did the domestic pass ARO, the core the DPA R0. And we have, proposed their, the a d d r DRA type to associated the way it's DLA, information, for example, the that led, QE in pastas information. We, this, information will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "a line, a line with the, the slats are queuing metadata. For example, we have, propose their their, deterministic latency information such as the, the deadline, cycle entered our test north queuing based information. This, this this part of extensions will, be updated based on their death letter updates. So, we This is order updates from master version. So this, we, lead to, get some feedback and their, we we, would like to ask ask her how to proceed. If we should wait for the declutter updates or can we ask her, for adoption? Sinks. As far as I realized that the document that you are referencing in Detnet is already working group document Yeah. The requirement is already working. Yeah. So, I think I'll discuss this with Julian, and maybe we'll write an email to the Detner chair and get their opinion and then we can definitely add it into our queue. Okay. Thank you. I still have some, questions. Especially related to, the metric type. Yeah. already have a normal latency mat So, we and Jitter Metric. Yeah. I was just wondering that how would they interact with the existing metric type object because can that be included as well as, have a bounded latency metric. And what will be their interaction I have searched the order metrics. And there for example, order of C8 23. They proposed a past delay and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "delay variation, but the computation over the past delay is just the summary over the links delay. And they're depending the latency delays their a summary over the, links delay plus and there, no delay, for example, to queuing So think it is different. Yeah. I I I agree that they are different. I was saying maybe we should also add some text that if both are included, how would the computation and debt would that not say I will simply ignore Yeah. The other metric type, or would I consider both of them? So some tech related to that would be useful. Yeah. That that Daryl has some, text, to find how to computer the related, latency in the drafted, draft, Yeah. I I'm existing yeah, thanks for doing that. The second one, even with respect to my question which first came to my mind is are you have 3 types, deadline, cycle, and time slot. Are they used together usually, is only one of them used at one time what is the usual way in which you expect the path to come with these properties? Only one in one time. And there this, is similar with their their umai in SR. Yeah. So type 2 indicator one of them. you. Yeah. Then it makes a lot of sense. Yeah. Thank So maybe you can add that description a little bit better in the document so that once an reader reads, he understands why you designed it Okay. Thank you. Are there any other questions from anyone Otherwise, there's an action item for us on chairs that we will reach out to detnet and try to decide the next step? Like, Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, so that brings us to the last presentation. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "Hello, everyone. This is Luis Contreras from Telefonica, and we and this graph on path computation based precision availability metrics. So the motivation for for this effort is basically the 5 that the some communication services will require, yet to take into consideration service level objectives. So So, basically, metrics or delay metrics or data or so which somehow has a a kind of the of a statistical distribution. This could be the case of the nebulized license with the the services, defining the recently release, NFC 9 543. Even though the diagnostic services that we have just seen, also could be a matter of of having images described in terms of SLOs. The APPM working group is defined in the performance availability availability metrics, The for defining and monitoring the CLOs, So, somehow, he already able to to take in the into account such as performance availability metrics and, extend the PC in order to to consider them for the calculation the selection of the path. So, the PC in all days, computing or select the path on on metrics. That's clear. These metrics could be bound. Or it could be, so how we can consider a maximum of the of the value of the metric. In such a way that the path that is selected or is computed, could have less or equal than than such a metric. But but the the point is that the the selection of the path is based on on the observed metric at that point on time. But in some cases, could be, of interest to have into account the behavior of the path along the time. So in such a way that we can ensure that the the the path in regards to that metric follows a statistical, distribution that is expected for the service. So it's not only, a punctual or a specific moment on on time,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "that that metric is satisfied, but it's done around the time. So here, in the next slide, you can of representation, statistical representation of, a metric. We, let's let's consider latency. In this case, so we could have the representation of the of the metric in the of freeze program or a community distribution function or, or whatever other statistic a a distribution that could be meaningful. So in this case, for instance, we center latency along the time. And here, we can observe that the 10, 25% of the the samples of the metric, instance, along the time, it's less than the 512 microseconds at or a mosque 47% of the time. Should be around less less than 1 millisecond has flown so far. So, we could consider that, and this is a matter of what APPM is is being specifying. The the violation intervals of this kind of distribution. So how long we, did the samples that we collect in terms of the metrics exceed the expected behavior, right, so that will define the violation intervals in case of the different intervals, different tires defined, or if we go to the let's say maximum bound of the of the metric, we will have them a kind of server violation interval. So this is a a reference to the definitions in in IPPM. So, they defined the violated interval as the time interval during which at least one of the performance parameters send the validation respect to the predefined optimal level threshold. Biometric interval is for the the predefined ones, the optimal ones that will be the blue columns here in the graph. And similarly, we have the severe bioletic interval. That is the 1 let's say that the gradation is respect to the critical value. As we saw previously in the in the graph. So with these definitions, also, IPPN defined the violated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "about radio, that will be the the radio of such such as violations, either, let's say, normal violations, the COC were, violations. So taking all of this into account, or proposition here is to to define a new a metric object that we call precision metric object. I'm basically allowing the definition of that metric in a statistical manner. So in this case, we could have, like, 2 options that are the ones that the IPPM is presented in the draft, one would be essentially a kind of optimal threshold, plus complemented by a critical threshold that will be the the option that you can see up on the on your right or, a description of the metric with several tires. So with something similar to the histogram that they shown before. So this is, an a new proposal we're the version 0, measure 01, that we released initially where we were posing to have an extension of the metric object. But we, we think that this approach is much cleaner the previous approach, and I'm I'm probably having other benefits like, backward. I mean, Yeah. But but but compatibility and and basically a cleaner encounter. And called in So, we of the the comments received for the previous versions, we have also added some examples to the to the draft. Here, we took directly the an example that this, provided by the draft in IPPM, the consider a pathway metric as basically defining the form that you can see there, that the, basically, the samples and the 6, 300 milliseconds for any packet. Or an the same for the for the same latency to not exceed 25 milliseconds for 99.1999090. 999, 30% of the package, and and similarly for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "subsequent threshold 20 milliseconds for 99% of the package. Assuming that, we we could we are, let let's say, calculating the path for a service that where the the violation interval ratio should be 5% and the severe violation radio, so big 0 2%. So that that will be how the exercising of the encoding as we have presented in the it's like before considering that the time interval is 1 hour. So this is just a an example for illustration purposes. So next steps, apart from collective from the working group, for sure, we will continue with analysis of potential impacts on the routing, backwards now No. From grammar that there was a point raised by by drooping in in the mailing list. So, yeah, we we need to to the to to explore that and, come back with, some impact analysis, That's clear. And then also we would like to clarify what could be the the better approach according to the the the the the the view of the working group, if extending the metric, copy it, or, going this new precision metric object We added a a backup slide with the previews and coding just for reference or you you can check for sure and and comment and the whole idea is to keep working, for sure, for the grammar and soul and and prepare a new version for next if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, that's all from my side. Thank you. X I have 2 concerns, first one is you proposed the 10 unit And as we mentioned, just now, our see a 2 33 day. Metric used their, microseconds code coated wisdom, 32. 32 base. So I think this is the their main Billy Mann, Eulis of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "the the time time units. So, if it if this is required to define other, types over the the time you or example, the day, year, the the microsecond or millisecond and such as this this a Tayulis. And another concern says how to, used this metric together with the, existing match with a full example their, past delay and their I proposed that there was, the the any latency magic, So, This is the 2 concerns Thank you for the questions. For the comments. Sorry. Regarding the the first point about the granularity of the timing, if I got properly. So I I think that in the draft, we are proposing several degrees of granularity. So I I need to check what you have said, but I think that we cover that that front. Regarding the, how this could work in parallel with the other metrics. Not all the the metrics could be expressed in terms of, of biologic metrics could be, for instance, the case that the delay is is expressed in this way. But maybe the hop count is expressed in, you know, another way or or so or the jitter or whatever. So not this will depend on the nature of the service and what the service demand well, how the services press the the yeah, the SLAs or the SLOs, probably some of them could go in, in the form of precision availability metrics, maybe if there's not So for those that would go in the the format of the precision availability metric, we can use this for the others, we can use the the other metrics. And and regarding the the, well, that could apply probably also as well with with your proposal. I need to recheck that because I I'm not familiar or not very much familiar with that. But but depending on on the kind of metric, probably can coexist. That that that because the metric will be expressed. Every metric will be expressed just in one format."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "So some of them could go in in the format of precision availability metric and the other go in in in the other form of Deepa will depend on the on the service. I guess. K. Thanks. Maybe wish weekend, discuss in the Merry Maids. Sure. Sure. you. Thank A general comment which I sort of made earlier also was, when metric type is being introduced for dead net cases or for this if you try to keep it in the same format, it's gonna good for the protocol extensions. Like, we don't want that net to extend via and they are doing with the metric type. And that was my thinking basically. Like, if we are coming with new metrics, we should not have, like, one goes with a new metric type object. Other one uses type. So if there is a need for a new object, maybe the decision should be across Working groups who do discuss with each other and come up with maybe an alignment within all the extensions that we do in PCS. Okay. Thank you so much. One more comment that I had was Yep. Thanks for adding the example, but also I was thinking what's the applicability within Like, for instance, I was thinking, is this most useful when I have delegated and then I can continue to monitor over time so that I have Like, I have this histogram that you were pointing point. But if it is a stateless I don't have I've forgotten everything. So I don't have this. So we need to have, applicability well as error cases, don't use this metric in these scenarios, it should only be applicable in this limited set That could be useful to add in the document as well. Got Okay. it. I am. Would work on that. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other comments from the room? Thank you. Thank you. This was the last presentation. Any parting thoughts from anyone Otherwise, you get your 20 minutes back. Enjoy. Julian. Last words. Thank you everyone for attending. And enjoy the place. Yes. See you in Vancouver."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "Bye. Bye. Thanks, Andrew. For comments, and everybody who helped with note taking"
  }
]
