[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "but right under setup shadow slide should I try to offer you yeah in 365 ok we\u0027ll be starting in about one minute just give a few more people time to roll in and then we\u0027ll start the blue sheets going around [Music] right burning hello everybody I\u0027m Annie malice this is Stewart right welcome to pals and our working group secretary Dave sénéchaux this is the note well I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen it before and you\u0027ll be seeing it again it has not changed since the last meeting okay this is our agenda it\u0027s a short agenda so hopefully we won\u0027t take the entire hour first is the current report that I\u0027m doing right now secondly we\u0027ll be talking about the Ethernet control word draft and other any comments I would like to make on the agenda anything anyone would like to add at the last minute just a very short "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:26",
    "text": "discussion on the liaison and who we send it to about this the control word dry Dave just pointed out that we need to send out a liaison about the control would draft to some other stos so we\u0027ll just very quickly go through the list of organizations that we plan to send the liaison to okay so we\u0027ve had some new RFC\u0027s since the last eight F RSC 8220 on him over virtual private land services a VPLS and RC 282 37 on MPLS LSP pseudo wire status refresh reduction we\u0027ve had 16 RCS published in the last two years so we\u0027ve been quite productive we have one draft on the RFC energies queue still right now P 2 M 3 pw LSP ping and we and it looks like we just cleared up the last discuss on that draft there was a new revision that just came out earlier today there wasn\u0027t discuss on it in the IES G it looks like it\u0027s been cleared so hopefully this is we go to the RFC editor very very shortly and we I\u0027m sorry I was talking about the wrong draft that\u0027s on the next one this one this one that\u0027s on the RFC editors queue is waiting for the next draft I were talking about so that so this is the draft that just went through iesg processing and it was just revised today based upon the the security ad review and the security Directorate reviews the the issue and this is something that I\u0027d like to make sure you\u0027re all aware of because it affects work in this group and work in the MPLS working group the issue was at LDP which of course we use heavily for pseudo wires is as the control plane currently relies on md5 for cryptographic security of its messages but as we all know md5 no longer meets current security requirements in the IETF so this issue really needs to be solved in the MPLS working group not in this work because it\u0027s the MPLS working group that has ownership of LDP and it affects all dress use LVP not just the but any future work that uses LDP will run up against this so the mpls and pals working group chairs and deborah who just walked in hi Deborah are working together on a solution which would be a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:26",
    "text": "new draft in the MPLS working group on LTP security to replace md5 there\u0027s been a discussion currently ongoing on the PALS email list so so you may have seen it already if you\u0027ve been following the email either on this list or on the MPLS list it and it looks like the right answer is to move to TCP äô with either sha-1 or char 256 as the the hashing algorithm and so there\u0027ll be further discussion and a draft coming out from this so this is not just a penalty people of them this is actually a problem for all of the TCP based routing protocols and I think they won\u0027t they have two problems one is that there isn\u0027t a default widely agreed a crypto function secondly there\u0027s no negotiation function that anyone has actually built what will TC Bao let you do is to say what the encryption function you\u0027re going to use we should probably work with all of the routing working groups that use TCP in order to have a common approach to to this and that some of the technology is not even in the routing area control it\u0027s really in transport and and security areas control and the whole thing would be a whole lot easier if there was a good public domain open source implementations if the whole stack that people would either copy or just take do you want to add anything to that Deborah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:27",
    "text": "okay any other comments or questions before we move on so we have one other working group draft and that\u0027s going to be the rest of today\u0027s agenda pals isn\u0027t that control word let me put that up and Stuart will be doing the presentation so before I start who didn\u0027t hear the plea the previous version of this presentation last time because if you want okay all right so I will go through the the introduction slides which briefly introduce the problem okay next slide please Andy so story so far a number of operators have experienced problems with miss ordering in their network of Ethernet packets and this was attributed to some of the Pease not using the pseudo wire control word for Ethernet and the I Triple E now quite legitimately although I you issuing MAC addresses that start with 0 4 or 0 6 which look a bit like IP addresses IP header starts now I suppose I should have added something that hat said last time which is that they were there are other criteria as well that can cause that to happen the one what this is the one we\u0027re all familiar with that there are more subtle reasons why it can happen so what happen what\u0027s happening is that a lot of pretty well all of the vendors do a dpi based ecmp and there so they go and have a peek behind the label stack somewhat against the sort of architecture of MPLS but they do it anyway they say ah I see a four so it must be an ipv4 packet and then they go and do the standard 5 topple hash calculation which is a bit of a problem if it\u0027s some random bits inside an Ethernet header and the packet goes off some way other than the way they expected it to so the result is a miss sequence the result is a lot of time and money spent by the operator community trying to figure out why some custom wire customer has complained that the packets aren\u0027t arriving in order so the next thing that has happened is that we actually spoke about this at last IETF because we chairs are both authors Dave cynic wrote it as our notes a grits and ago Matthew Bakke is managing the process on our behalf and we\u0027ve got a an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:29",
    "text": "adopted draft and you will talk about who we\u0027re going to liaise it - we should have liaised it to some other third parties now it turns out and that some vendors are in some circumstances using zero X zero nibble zero the start of the control word as a as a hint that what follows is an Ethernet pseudo wire packet so they skip I presume 14 bytes but I don\u0027t know the exact number and they say we\u0027ll do the five couple hash on the IP packet that we assume follows we didn\u0027t know about this at the last IDs so this is an extra piece of material next slide please so what I would like to do at this meeting the working group agrees is for us to look at the some critical pieces of text that are in the document the core of our recommendation for two scenario the two scenarios and for us to agree we at least with the people here what the text needs to say and hopefully that will save a lot of email exchanges oh what the the other what some vendors have got a switch that they can turn on when you turn the switch on it\u0027s a it looks it looks down the MPLS label stack just like we do at the moment and it says if there\u0027s a four or a six then we\u0027ll do the standard four or six thing it but if there\u0027s a zero it must be an Ethernet pseudo wire so skip 14 bytes on we should I believe is the the right number the Matt right mark magic number and start looking for an IP header there and say if we see an IP header there it must be IP over Ethernet we want to it what we want to play Russian roulette with the customer traffic we will do our five couple load balance that\u0027s what\u0027s going on what\u0027s wrong with it well they don\u0027t always get it right well they don\u0027t always get it right not only that but they assume that the only pseudo wire type is Ethernet so if it\u0027s any other type of pseudo wire than Ethernet then they\u0027re hashing and who knows what well and it could be that there\u0027s a legitimate packet be following the MPLS label stack that starts with zero zero that could be anything remember there\u0027s no definition of what that foot you know what happens on that first first nibble right you\u0027re supposed to just operate on the MPLS label stack according to a strict interpretation of the MPLS architecture these other tricks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:29",
    "text": "and techniques are tactical things that people do and what happens is they do them and it doesn\u0027t always work out as they expect and some operators and Ignace has spent a lot of time talking to operators are complaining that these things get turned on in their network presumably because people don\u0027t really understand the problem or because someone who did understand the problem I understood it correctly and there was only Ethernet in their track when they turned it on but you know time moves on the use of the network changes people had other things people had other protocols and then you get the miss ordering and then they spend hours trying to sort of go through with Wireshark or whatever the tool they\u0027re using is and find out what on earth is happening so it\u0027s that community that have asked us to publish material that helps them resolve the problem and and the only way we can resolve the problem is to provide advice or right but at least they can point to an RFC and say it says look it says here don\u0027t do this or they can specify a dierence to the RFC in there sort of request for service and stuff so but we it\u0027s it\u0027s we\u0027re not doing this because we think it\u0027s a random you know a good thing to do even if it is a good thing to do we\u0027re doing it because people have come to us and say this is happening it\u0027s costing us time and money managing our networks please could you figure out what\u0027s going on and fix it for us and I\u0027m sure if Ignace wants to go to the microphone he can explain because he\u0027s been the person who\u0027s been talking really to the operator community it was ton of thickness booked on his Equinix indeed and some statistics so since last meeting I was speaking about this at least at nano gripe euro X some other smaller events and statistics that I gathered unguarded I see that I had 44 different discussions with different operators two out of those were aware of this problem to a bigger portion of them this does not apply they don\u0027t use either pseudo wire so they use that in the environment where this problem is does not exist is because the the platform says here using doesn\u0027t exhibit this problem but still the awareness of the problem is not there in the field and this is actually painful the basically the case has where this problem surfaces they show up regularly on on on various operator groups and certainly it\u0027s a question of Education saying that while the architecture allows you to do this this is not a right thing to do because you will run "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "into the problems and here is the reference if you went for more details ok so that\u0027s the goal of this document so next slide please go back and it directly the last one next slide please so the problems that that I want to address I\u0027d like to address at this meeting are for us to look at the additional that the text that we\u0027ve put in this draft and what we\u0027d like to do is to try and agree the text on those two recommendations so I\u0027m going to explain the material I\u0027ve got in here the last two slides are a repeat of the key text and I\u0027d like to do live editing in this meeting room to at least try on will go away with some consensus on what I\u0027m going to put to the list in the form of a new draft okay so next slide please so there are two key areas of text all right the first is on the use of the control word so in section 4 which is the recommendations text I\u0027ve said that this document updates RFC four four four eight to state that where both the ingress and the egress pe support the ethernet suitor wire control word then the control word must be used so this tries to steer people away from ever having this this problem he\u0027s then gonna head back to this slide we are going to go back to this slide you are gonna have the opportunity to he\u0027ll no no I understand but all I\u0027m saying is that that\u0027s already there I win border supports it the control words should be used oh yeah this is it\u0027s the one is the one doesn\u0027t support and one does support that\u0027s when you had to do the negotiation right yeah but people are running it anywhere people are running the without the control word for other reasons with that that\u0027s right so I think maybe you want to change this text that default mode is without the control word and that\u0027s why you want to make the default mode to be using the default work this is this is the recommendation that we are telling people going forward that the expert opinion of this working group is that we\u0027re both in support it you must use it because that is the safe criteria yeah yeah it\u0027s stating the obvious but yes so also in the operational considerations section and protection I\u0027m proposing is to remove this problem in the long term and hence to reduce the operational costs of investigating problems associated with the incorrect forwarding of Ethernet packets over suitor wires not using the control word it is recommended that equipment that does not support the control word be phased out of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:30",
    "text": "operational use we\u0027re going to discuss this at the end because I know that Himanshu has got some opinion on that all right so next next slide please so we met that text before so dpi beyond the deep packet inspection beyond the control word so section 5 explains that there are two methods that want to provide safe methods of doing pseudo wire ecmp and they\u0027re the they\u0027re the fat label which is where a label that goes in the suit in the stack right at the bottom of stack we where people can provide entropy alright and this predates the later solution which is that we use the an LS P entropy label in the stack either those are acceptable approaches one is entirely within the domain of the pseudo wire application the other requires arguably doesn\u0027t and also has some interesting problems when you get gals in the stack as well there is a caveat however RFC 67 90 is soft on how ecmp is carried out when the e Li is present if you look at the text it says if a transit LSR recognizes the LSE the LSI rather it may choose to load balance solely on the following label the entropy label now this is a wider problem because it actually upsets it upsets the synonymous labor work and it upsets the any any attempt we may make to do IO am in an MPLS context so anything that we\u0027re doing in the OEM world that wishes to change thus the the stack should that those changes should be neutralized by the presence of the e Li but because of this wording it is not absolutely the case that it will be now it\u0027s not the work of this job of this working group to change the Li definition but I think that we should take work to MPLS and request the tightening of those criteria such that if anyone follows this new RFC the our se foo that if you see the e Li then you load balance on the e Li and or the entropy label and you don\u0027t and and you\u0027re very careful about anything else you take into account and I think that would allow us to solve a problem we got on synonymous labels and another problem it also helps us solve this by making it clear how you\u0027re supposed to do load balancing next slide please so as I said 67 nineties outside the scope of the PALS working group so I\u0027m going to assume that we\u0027ll be having "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:30",
    "text": "this discussion at some stage in the MPLS working group because I think it\u0027s something that we need to clean up next slide please so addressing the DPI passed the plastic control word Israel also kind of outside the scope of the PALS working group because actually it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of not architectural eval in any way what people do but it\u0027s not actually if you ask the MPLS working group I think they would suggest that it\u0027s not actually what MPLS architecture says so we put that should be text in this graph that tract that explains the sort of minimization they need to do this and I think we need to rut to take a drafter to the MPLS working group at the next ITF a next slide please so what is the proposed text so two pieces of text the first one is the recommendation where the ingress PA supports RFC 60 790 are the e Li and both ingress and egress pease support the fat pseudo area RFC 6391 and ecmp of the ethernet pseudo wire traffic is required then one of these methods and we can discuss whether it\u0027s a should or a must but the point of me the the the thing here is to say that if the two if the two of them support fact or one of them supports the Li that is the preferred method and that\u0027s what we should be should be doing there\u0027s an operational considerations section as well as well to remove any ecmp passed based on dpi beyond the pseudo wire control word it is recommended that pease supporting Ethernet pseudo wires implement RFC 6391 and RFC 60 790 I\u0027ve said both because I want to make sure that we can do interoperability and there will be some kids out there that can do one some kid out there that can do the other and so this is they\u0027re actually the minimum changes to do both you may have an opinion on that is further recommended that the use of dpi based ecmp that looks beyond the suitable control word is disabled by default and only enabled if both RFC 6391 that\u0027s the fact and RSC sixty seven ninety a li are unavailable and that a risk assessment has been taken on the long-term operational costs and other implicit implications such as possible out of order Ethernet frame delivery in other words we\u0027re not saying people can\u0027t do it people will want to do it there are all kinds of circumstances will they will they will but this is a strong recommendation that if you if it really is your only choice or there is some other reason why you want to do it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:30",
    "text": "you really have to take a serious look at the long-term implications for your operations team so I think the next to all the text we\u0027re going to edit aren\u0027t they so slow Anderson I\u0027m one of the mpls working group chairs there you are talking quite a bit of work to be done in the MPLS what you described well there are any tiny drafts but yeah but it\u0027s need to be done yes yes yes yes yes so currently the ampulla sugandha for tomorrow is not entirely full okay so would it be possible for you to give a one or two slide kind of a heads up for the MPLS working group yes - yes get that get this work on the under on the agenda I will I well I can\u0027t write a draft but I can certainly explain how much of this do you want me to explain it should I provide some more of this background I\u0027m more interested that people understand that there is a problem then actually how to solve it okay so that\u0027s a you you need to give a heads up there\u0027s something we need to do here right every one or two drafts rather short write and work well no I mean I mean do you want believe should I explain the city why background that brought this in it\u0027s actually since I got the idea when I sat down there I haven\u0027t really thought about it so yeah I\u0027m an XI so this doesn\u0027t look right right because this is done at the end point this 6391 is something that should\u0027ve our endpoints do and not the LS ours and Alice are the one who are using that information they have no idea whether this the what is the bottom level whether that\u0027s a fat label or not right so you can\u0027t make yeah let\u0027s are can\u0027t there is not no I mean if you read the paragraph it doesn\u0027t know LS are there is no capability in LS are recognized sorry with which paragraph you I\u0027m talking about section 7 right okay so this is this is so so I guess the question for the groupies what advice do we give the operations team I mean I think it\u0027s important that they understand there is a problem that I mean sure that the the configuration guy for the PA won\u0027t control what the the PE the Elat the peerages are doing but they should read this and say I better go and talk to my friends in the P route of space and make sure that they\u0027re not gonna screw up these packets so that the two of us don\u0027t spend a bunch of time trying to sort out a an incorrectly delivered SLA for up for our customer no but it the paragraph doesn\u0027t make sense it so if you start reading from it is further "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:30",
    "text": "recommended that the use of the DPI based a CMP that looks beyond pseudo our controller is disabled by default and only neighbor leave both 6391 and sixty three sixty seven ninety are unavailable yes so I mean so you are a peer outer there are thousands of PE routers and pseudo wires going through you yes and some are doing something and others are doing other things how are you going to on that peer outer decide or disable or enable the behavior of whether we\u0027re to do and how to do a CMP right do you see what I\u0027m trying to say here but the Adrian is again I interpret this paragraph as don\u0027t do it by default yes and if you to do dpi hashing then it has to be conscious decisions yes if you have some conditions that you cannot do otherwise at least you make it as a understandably and with their understanding of personal consequences yes that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to say okay so I think it\u0027s reasonable text which recommends you to think before you do because if it\u0027s default behavior you don\u0027t analyze it right so I think the sort of steps I\u0027m trying to sort of emphasis our if you need to do if you need to do ecmp then there are other think about trying to use the other techniques and only if you can\u0027t do that think about the Cassavetes method but think very carefully about the long-term consequences so do it with your eyes open I think that\u0027s what Gregg was trying to yeah so I think they both maybe that\u0027s your intention but I think the text is not right so so there so my plan for the meeting and we can do it differently if you want is to get Andy to put this text up and we will attempt to produce in ITU I Triple E whatever it is style the text that we think should go forward Adrian he\u0027d written feral apologies for turning up as a tourist in your working group and then jumping in is the intention of this work only to talk about ecmp performed at egress Pease no okay because the original intention was but they during the discussion on the list and operator said actually the problem is much worse than you think this is happening so we need to address "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:31",
    "text": "that they did suggest a solution one of the solution that one of their solutions was that we turn on can a suit that control word sequence number checking but I don\u0027t think there would be much consensus for it I\u0027d not sure it\u0027s supported in any of the equipment that\u0027s in the field maybe I should phrase my question differently is the intention of this work to can to cover ecmp performed at P routers I think it has to because it appears that P routers are screwing up our packets are you aware that ecmp performed at P routers happens in a very wide variety of way some of which your proposals would break and would it not be better to write something that describes what behavior is required of ecmp rather than try to describe ways that the cmp must or must not be performed given that you ain\u0027t gonna change silicon no but I can say I believe the systems that do this have got a switch that you have to turn on to cause it to happen and so it might it would be reasonable to make sure that people know the consequences of turning that switch John no I know it doesn\u0027t is basically so so so why don\u0027t we go so why don\u0027t we go to the next pair of slides and people can suggest alternative text okay taking this out of slideshow mode and putting this so here is the well I\u0027m assuming that these are the key pieces of text in the document I assume that we will agree on those and then the authors will make the rest of the document align with whatever we agree here and then we\u0027ll go through the standard process but I was hoping to get some active sort of discussion on what this needs to be to try and sort of get there a bit faster so those are the two pieces of text I mean obviously as the author I quite like these pieces of text but I am NOT Precious about them does anyone wish to propose changing this text to say anything different this text now is not the text on ecmp this is the text on the use of the control word will do ecmp on the next slide so is there anyone who has any comments on either section 4 or section 7 text that we are now displaying if there are no comments then this this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:32",
    "text": "is the text that will be in the draft so you know I again the text is fine okay we are kind of hoping that people will read these RFC and suddenly start doing the right thing yes this is a pipe dream in a sort of way but it text it\u0027s fine okay okay okay section four and sections in Section seven okay commence recharge your consent this particular text in Section four in Section seven it\u0027ll stay as it is now to be shown right now we have other text in Section four in Section seven that we talked about in a minute hi Pat okay right so let\u0027s go to the other problem okay this is the ecmp text yes so here\u0027s the text I I dealt with so the first question I got is section 4 the recommendation is that text okay and which keywords should we use okay so yeah it\u0027s just we\u0027re just doing the first paragraphs yeah the section for first paragraph and so you should use one of these methods but if both are available yes should should they use both or one or the other well it says then one of these method should be used as that\u0027s what he said that and I think you probably don\u0027t want to use both I don\u0027t think it\u0027s harmful to use both are not quite sure whether the behavior is well-defined if you use both yeah but I say one right should be yes should we should be extend that if both are there only one of them yeah a little bit more explicit on that correct anyone else want to comment on this paragraph does that does anyone think that it\u0027s reasonable to put that that we shouldn\u0027t use both name and microphone please for the record I find that wording a little hard to parse because both should that be used could be interpreted as you shouldn\u0027t use either only one should be used yes there are broadcast thank you yeah we know who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:32",
    "text": "you are but the record should show it I\u0027m still Adrian Li has slightly different usage rules from from the fat thingy as far as I recall in the en I can be placed midway in the stack yes and it can be placed midway in the stack for the reason that somebody using it might not be able to get all the way down to the bottom of the stack yes this language implies that you\u0027re kind of free to choose which one you use yes without which gives the implication that given a free choice I might as well just use fat which is not going to help you get through this the P routers that need the e Li halfway up the static so you would preferred that we recommend that you use a li if offer are available Oh Andy I\u0027d prefer you weren\u0027t doing this work at all well we wouldn\u0027t do it except what we were asked her to do it well I there is a problem that needs to be solved as believed that this approach is the right approach to solve the problem I believe that described what behavior you must not create when you move packets around is a better way of doing that than pointing out well you could do this thing here and this widget here and and change these defaults just tell people what they must not screw up in the network and allow people then to go and implement so you\u0027d like to see a completely different draft yes which I guess means I\u0027d like to see such and force struck and then I\u0027ll go on and talk about section seven and I\u0027ll say oh I\u0027d like to see section seven struck and so on well there is other text besides this here sections for in section centers I guess - you know what I did is saying is somewhat true but the the draft six sixty seven ninety says that it also applies for the pseudo wires as well which means that to identify a micro flow within the pseudo wire you can still either use the e Li L or you can use the fed to the wire right and I view this within the context of that right obviously when you have hierarchical LSPs or IP over MPLS and so on and so forth you can use e Li there as well yeah but this specific text is at ingress PE doing the pseudo wire and doing identifying the flow within the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:34",
    "text": "pseudo wires yeah my assumption is you may want to if you put that in context in that context it\u0027s not hierarchical LSP it\u0027s not IP or MPLS it is pseudo wire over edie ingress B and between the two fetch wood or wire or Li yes you would do second the context is already provided this is a document is about Ethernet pseudo wires yes the I\u0027m assuming that the pe knows the context after all it\u0027s no he has been given this pseudo I been told of this Ethernet packet it\u0027s been told to I understand so I think that what they rien was saying this is because of that confusion right if you just look at this text without the context that it is the ingress P that is doing through a wire and a micro flow within the pseudo wire you have two schemes available one is to just push the fetch or a wire variable if if you ingress any or you can do e Li and yell right and you choose one of the two right visitor and I have to actually put Suffolk this is extremely guys misleading the both has to be spelled out because in English language it both means ecmp and fat doesn\u0027t even go to e Li the present so yeah so we have to spell it out yeah then they\u0027re already available rather than present do you do you mean present or supported I\u0027m assuming yeah it means available or supported yes so are we comfortable with yep sorry Matthew bocce no yeah so I think I\u0027m comfortable the first one although Eli and fat we\u0027re not really about stopping hashing answer on su device or about identifying microphone yes why seven oh and they bring those elbows to be spread not to be reordered not the whole hello door why so I think some of the context may be lost a little bit in this okay given what we\u0027re trying to achieve him maybe it maybe it helps section serve and I kind of thing I agree with Adrienne let section for first can we fish for then you know and be at the front of the line for Seto no I think seven sorry for I\u0027m okay okay no we have to choose between should and must one question on the last cent if you have a multi seven to the wire is enough to use all the yell I because you have to carry your life from the to PSN sir oh that\u0027s an interesting point I said "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:39",
    "text": "man you\u0027re just swapping the pseudo I\u0027ll label no no no but you\u0027ve lost all of the MPLS stack by that point yes sir you know the whole of the MPLS stack has gone away before yeah how how is that in the multi segment solo are you ever sort of our label and below that either you have fat sort of our label or e Li L there\u0027s nothing to do and you just swapped it depends on what order you put them in right so unless the e Li is below the pseudo wire label okay what fact is the is the way to do it below the pseudo wire labels okay I I just say do it with a li below the studio okay is there I think that okay I just try to visualize if if Li is before the su the wire label yes it\u0027s not necessarily lost we\u0027re talking about implementation yes yes okay so I would say that if a oh I is above su the wire then it may be available and used for the next segment right okay so again this is implementation details but putting Aoi above to the wire label is good enough putting million putting a yo I above su the wire label is good enough for multi segments to the wire to continue using the same UI value directly above yes if it\u0027s directly above you would have to because it\u0027ll be popped before you get the again it\u0027s popped virtually it doesn\u0027t have to be popped and thrown away what implementation right and but I think if we say that this is scenario that we recommend yes okay people who do that or who implement have to think about it and do the right thing I mean LSP that terminate at Sona an SPE that terminates the LSP yes going to pop the whole local stack by definition yes for the pseudo label and with appetizers for example entropy label capability yes to show that it can receive and process the entropy label without Chuck in the packet way so I don\u0027t understand why we\u0027re talking about parsing the entropy label across I mean it\u0027s not you wouldn\u0027t normally do that we wouldn\u0027t normally do that you\u0027d have to regenerator well you could do what you like with it to be honest you house it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:39",
    "text": "just copy the value or it might not even there\u0027s no assumption here yes they come they know something that even receives it because it could does the entropy label stay there yeah yeah if you\u0027re doing PHP does it stay there oh and the answer is I don\u0027t know I think it\u0027s completely ambiguous whether it stays there or not there\u0027s no need for it to stay there no need for it so I don\u0027t think we can make an assumption here about whether it\u0027s or not no and that\u0027s so fat is actually the safer method of doing this because that would work because that\u0027s below the pseudo I label and so would unconditionally work in both multi segment and single segment well so yeah because it\u0027s the only one signals and yes yeah so I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve quite got that section for text right yet yeah so I have the concern it I think if you were looking through the labor stack to find the Eli yes find it do you at that point in time know if you are above or below the fat level above or below Z so you\u0027re saying that that\u0027s different well if the Eli is a above or below the fat label when you search the label stack you\u0027re looking for the ill are you not looking for anything else oh you don\u0027t at that point know where if you\u0027re above or below the the fat label I don\u0027t know if I\u0027m incorrect I guess so the so the fat label is the bottom of stack it\u0027s defined to immediately follow the pseudo wire label because what happens in when you\u0027re handling the fat label is that you do a CMP on the whole stack or at least the bottom label in the stack and then when you\u0027re at the egress PE you say ah this is a pseudo wire I\u0027ve got it because I can tell that from the from the pseudo wire label but I know this one is followed by a fat label so I\u0027ll discard it so that\u0027s what you do at the egress PA the the SPE you just do a swap on the the suit of our label movie from always speaking just suggest maybe can we make it easier saying that we require that at least one of these Tomatoes should be used and let evil implement as it decides what to do if one or both you say at least one of these tomatoes has to be used and whether you use one which one and when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:41",
    "text": "you use both depends on on on you so that\u0027s what the checks yeah at least one ad at least before one and yeah exactly yes just say at least yeah yeah crossing out through things that people see it either low if the census if both the ill I owned fact I\u0027ll support it only e Li should be used the suggestion is to strike that just strike that yeah and maybe add at least in front of one so to say one or both because do we know what happens if you use oh that\u0027s a good question I have no idea I don\u0027t know I think it will probably just work I think well I have no idea no idea what implementations will do yeah and every vendor has got multiple ways of doing it so it\u0027s not even as you know a vendor a versus vendor B problem it\u0027s every platform problem he does it differently yeah you had septa select on and I thought I wouldn\u0027t race that are sentences saying that you know I does not work for most a second su-- device I think what we mean is it must be enabled for each segment right but some how does it do the load back how does it do the the load balance because it\u0027s load balancing between us ours not it\u0027s not load balancing across SBA\u0027s no no but how so so so you you you\u0027ve got you you you\u0027re you\u0027re supporting Eli but we\u0027re not making an assumption about how you\u0027re generating the the hash in the in the entropy label this could be copied across it could be by some magic unbox I think you should just say that entropy label should be used on every segment yes so that\u0027s going to now say that no we\u0027re not saying it does not work we\u0027re saying in the case of multi segment pseudo wires a li should be used on every segment to I was saying if entropy label is use then the OL I should be supported on every second or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "used on every second no no if he Li is used does that work better yeah yeah and then it\u0027s up to the vendors to figure out how they make it get used and whether they know and it\u0027s gonna be assured is it yeah okay so everyone here we will get to another chance to look at this everyone here happy with this text so far okay so section seven so I\u0027m not confident I\u0027m not sure that this should be in this draft okay because this is talking about P Reuters right I have no idea what service is what I\u0027ve you know services I\u0027ve been transported enter and they could be in transit providers they could be carrying the majority the majority the traffic could be just IP right or something so if you\u0027re gonna make recommendations about how to configure or do load balancing on LS ours yes I think that probably should have a spin a draft in the MPLS working but not here okay well so so so here\u0027s a problem I have that when I looked at the the example text from the from the sort of release notes track user manual or whatever it was that was circulated on the studio I list it was actually stated in the context of pseudo wires so this is not someone randomly doing this thing it\u0027s a feature for use in conjunction with pseudo wires the only reason it ever looks to check for zero is just to to detect the presence of anything that pseudo I so it is sort of in it is really in the scope of this working group comment on features associated with pseudo-ops now you could argue that we should also talk about it in MPLS III will absolutely support that but this is a pseudo wire feature that appears on one I am told more than one operating network operating system so but but we just picking up one of the technologies "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:44",
    "text": "like I can be hushing for god like for any other things under that stack I can be doing many other things why we out of a sudden talking about dpi than anything else and like I don\u0027t think there is a I don\u0027t think it\u0027s in the scope so you don\u0027t think it\u0027s in scope but the reason it got here is because when I circulated the draft someone put a comment on the pseudo wire list saying I think you need to do much more than you\u0027re proposing and they cited this they actually said we should use sequence numbers what a group that talks about dpi and like this is Pandora Box I didn\u0027t like anyway I\u0027ve voiced my ok there\u0027s not a rare box by the way the things that comment about sequence numbering is trying to specify something about what the peas doing not well yeah right so what we can do here I think is to say we could if if there\u0027s low balancing going on in a network what can we how can we design pseudo wires so that they don\u0027t get impacted by this right negatively you can\u0027t say I think how do we redesign LS ours no but this is a pseudo wire feature that has been added to some Reuters and the so it I\u0027m going to argue that easy now in context given that it\u0027s a pseudo wire feature that\u0027s been added it looks and assumes that it\u0027s found one of our pseudo wires it\u0027s not a PA that\u0027s doing it and it\u0027s not an so do you think we should not sort of warn vendors warn operators that this effect is being seen given that an operator said I\u0027ve hop this got this problem it\u0027s caused me harm no I\u0027m just thinking that the discussion should be more general than just pseudo eyes take into account why operators will be doing hashing on in general I\u0027m all right but in sure that is a discussion to be had absolutely yes but in this particular case there is a particular feature that makes the assumption that you\u0027re using Ethernet pseudo wires and does its processing based upon that assumption and we\u0027re not saying that you shouldn\u0027t do it but just saying be careful because it has called miss order and it\u0027s not always correct because it assumes that every pseudo wire is an Ethernet pseudo wire sure yeah I understand understand understand some ssin of this feature is that it\u0027s a pseudo I guess or the encapsulations are suitable but it\u0027s not a PA and it\u0027s not doesn\u0027t it\u0027s not in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:44",
    "text": "our architecture right sounds a bit of a it sounds like a proprietary feature so it\u0027s an incorrect feature which that\u0027s not entirely true well there are some circumstances in limited networks where it might make sense right I don\u0027t iiiiii I think I\u0027m it\u0027s not one that I would recommend anyone implement but I can understand because there are better ways of doing it but I can understand why people might have done this the issue is to make sure that they remember praise themselves of the risks associated with doing it and that\u0027s all I really wanted to put in I we could say less but I do think that maybe we need yeah I think there\u0027s a legitimate case for us as the pseudo wire experts saying an interesting feature but you know do your risk assessment because and we say that on the basis that an operator complained to us that our pseudo eyes didn\u0027t work properly because this feature got turned on what dpi isn\u0027t entirely out of scope is we\u0027ve got a whole load of text in here explaining how to a blue out of obliviate the need for it I think given the concerns that we have yes we should I think take this to the mpls group and have the MPLS group because it is largely the function of an LS ours yes right so I mean it\u0027s not within within the scope of the pause working group to specify what the behavior of an LS re cmp should be right I think there is a confusion you know some pseudo wires have this control word there has the has it enable other pseudo bias may not there is also IP over MPLS is going on and so on and so forth you know what should be the right behavior at the LSR right right so it\u0027s very problematic with respect to what should be the right behavior right I mean I understand what we want to say is I but it just doesn\u0027t gel well right if I understand this correctly this is the operational consideration section yes so I don\u0027t have a problem with the past "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:46",
    "text": "working group actually if describing a behavior that actually caused by the design on the pseudo eyes right so it\u0027s fine to describe it here yes maybe when it comes to actually writing down the more specification like text that actually should go in the one of the drafts we talked about earlier in the MPLS working group so I\u0027m kind of splitting it up describe the problem and then we can it can be problematic doing dpi based on the on an assumption that it\u0027s a pseudo wire and that are that you should think very carefully about doing it so when you bring this into a ampulla spot in your breath yes obably want to have a little bit more background than problematic over here saying that we removing that pseudo wire control will replace DPI is naive going to and the recommendation is naive getting into the DPI and how we can solve it or not solve it this is seriously guys it\u0027s like like this tight like just don\u0027t do this or if you want to do this think well what you\u0027re trying to do and work with your vendor to make sure this will work because by definition it will not like I think that week that we can say is just like bending and writing text so that would be that that\u0027s probably more you know okay so do we want to attempt to do that now I don\u0027t know how many more minutes we\u0027ve got for this and how much more do it or do you do I have a go at doing it and put it to the list so I\u0027ll just sort of say in some cases vendors make this assumption they should be very careful when they do it and consider using an alternative supported method okay we will attempt to capture that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:07",
    "text": "[Music] there should be operators yeah so my question is that are we considering that some implementations do dpi for a CMP handling even past control wars yes yes that\u0027s the problem she should the destard sorry should the best so I was stunned when I discover it was happening because my assumption whenever we did we decide this is that it wouldn\u0027t happen it does happen I can understand why they did it okay and just of course there is no in the first paragraph I should we should clarify for the record actually that\u0027s my son his door that those who enter will be shots will be shot again I should clarify for the right Reggie\u0027s only joking yeah but on the serious note and the first paragraph that edited the text take a look whether its capital must or it\u0027s just masked as not normative on the multi segments who the were the masked is a world case now so do you want to use the capital or not that muscle should I think I think should is probably the right thing to do yes right which is why should is probably better than oh right I see what you mean yes yeah okay so if you\u0027re if if whatever the switch that is doing that the control with the looking for control word zero and doing a DPS you know they don\u0027t know what they\u0027re fetch wood or wire is a sort of viral label or or something else right now they\u0027re neat so today it\u0027s going to bypass that there if they are doing it they are doing it right yes the fetch Aloha label is not going to stop because they can\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:09",
    "text": "recognize that there is a fetcher exactly label so the same another thing is so we talked about section four section seven here right so so yeah that\u0027s why section seven never made any sense right John sorry they would still be the same behavior they get today so this is pretty much useless if you\u0027ve got the problem it\u0027s between two pease that are miss ordering packets that are dealing with miss ordered packets yes the right answer is for those bees to implement sequence numbers and correct the order of the package do we want to really implement sequence numbers well you could try and persuade the network operator to ask the ops team to turn off this behavior which is what he\u0027s saying he\u0027s saying that because it\u0027s not recognizable fetch wood or wire label is not recognized a buzz and if they go below the last bottom of the stack label and look at the control word and then do a DPI be below that they not unless they disable that or not stop doing that it\u0027s gonna continue right so try and encourage them to turn the feature off in the network right yes yes it\u0027s not probably not disable label right yes I don\u0027t know what they actually seem p.m. right yes yes yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:14",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] yes right so it doesn\u0027t think this I don\u0027t think this action well yes someone has implemented it somebody on my team implemented this yes Android software for this yes and they looking at labels in addition to dpi they should be fired because so which means when you introduce this RFC nothing should happen and the same problems or solutions they had they will have because if you\u0027re trying to do too much then you\u0027re trying to do too much so they either doing the pie and it works today and you this will work and none of none of that stuff will be enabled because when you seem when you\u0027re doing something on dpi you\u0027re not doing anything else you\u0027re not going to look an IP address because it\u0027s just part of your dpi algorithm well I don\u0027t know what they\u0027re looking at but like you\u0027re doing dpi because what you have on a you know layer 1 to 4 is not enough so whatever are we gonna to actually so I don\u0027t know what they\u0027re doing because I can\u0027t remember the exact text of the the user manual but one suspects it\u0027s just the standard couple so so so so currently the new version of the text and hopefully those expressed an opinion can express an opinion on the list the list it\u0027s very quiet you know which is why I were we\u0027ve been using this way obsession as I working group time to trial make some progress actually if we assume that somebody does dpi test the control world then it will affect not only Ethernet frames because again we mentioned that we do have different kinds of to the wire yes exactly so I would say then it\u0027s there\u0027s su the wire payload can be delivered out of order "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:14",
    "text": "not necessarily right yes yes you\u0027re right you\u0027re right thank you so I\u0027m gonna write up a version of the make the changes to the document I\u0027ll put it out on the list shortly after I get home hopefully people can take a more considered view and we\u0027ll discuss it some more tomorrow okay no no they did actually point than that to be fair they did point to a specific vendor we are not going to name here it\u0027s already Andrew Andrew it\u0027s a ready on the list in the official record yes on the list as always in every ITF working group so she can take your comments to the list as well the specific pointer was made to the to the list of what the problem was yeah people do not have to be physically present at night EF meeting in order to make a point okay okay are we certain with one thing um we\u0027re done we have one more point of water and in that we intend to send a liaison from the IETF to a number partner stos that make use of pseudo wires in order to inform them of this work and the existence of the draft Dave okay so well yeah so two things one right don\u0027t think there\u0027s any objection to ascending this thing out but to the groups that we have listed here are BBF itu study group 15 I Triple E 802 and should it go to I Triple E RAC who should get who should this go to and I Triple E definitely eight or 2.1 right and then the other one was math and then the the liaison would briefly state the issue point to the recommendations and the updated RFC or the the draft and asked that the draft be can taken into consideration in either previous or future work and at this point based on the maturity of the text I would hold off on this for at least a couple weeks okay yeah let\u0027s see so trying to figure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:20",
    "text": "out I don\u0027t know what for so the purpose of sending it to the rack or to I I\u0027m not sure I see what the understand what the purpose of sending it to the rack was I mean they care about ethertype they don\u0027t write it was yeah it was yeah it was there yeah we yeah issue so it the only really affect the sending liaison as they look we\u0027re doing something about it right and I think not to change it yeah and I think yeah I think probably I would say in I would say the rack and probably probably 802 dot one I Triple E 8 or 2.1 because I think that\u0027s that\u0027s who cares most at this level either that or you certainly can send it to 802 as a whole and we won\u0027t figure out where in 802 to go but I would copy 802 that one to a chair Glenn you know so so I\u0027m just to be more detailed so we\u0027d send it to the BBF the idea of the ITU and map for action so they can actually do something with yeah we would send it to 8o 2.1 and the rack for information right yeah and actually possibly to correct any errors around assumptions that we\u0027ve made because I don\u0027t think I covered all the cases that you all right right for review yeah yeah yeah so yeah Rach Rach chair is Bob grow and Glenn Parsons for 802 dot one okay okay thank you do we have any other business thank you we are adjourned until London see you there thank you all "
  }
]