[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "you can unmute them hello it is 11:20 time for the first tea session it\u0027s a short session so we\u0027re gonna get started I think most people are still enjoying the very nice break and maybe they will trick or trickle in maybe a little my mouse trouble sorry about that so we should be familiar with the note well for those of you who\u0027ve been to our meetings before basically this governs your participation in at the IETF and the important thing to take away is is that I think you say here does become part of our record we have both audio streaming and video as we have become accustomed please speak up at the mics we need to discuss and when you come to the mic please start by stating your name so those that are remote can know who you are that also helps with minute taking as usual we\u0027re doing our collaborative minute taking using etherpad I\u0027ll pause here for a moment for folks to jump on please help out by capture helping the capture comments that are said it\u0027s particularly good if if you say something to a go look at etherpad and make sure your name is recorded properly and that your comment appropriately captured that\u0027s when you do that it\u0027s very helpful we also are using jabber if I can ask a few people to jump on I\u0027ll jump on in a moment also and that way folks who are remote are able to ask questions so there\u0027s no changes in our working group organization and Matt is remains our secretary he\u0027s been very helpful he\u0027s working remotely so unfortunately it\u0027s not in the room today so we\u0027re gonna run through the normal status pieces that we typically do we\u0027ve had four recent RFC\u0027s that\u0027s really what we\u0027re supposed to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "producing so it\u0027s good to see when that we we have some products coming out of the group we have one document that is in the editor queue it is the teehee topology document as we know that that was something we worked on quite a while and it\u0027s it\u0027s a quite a significant piece of work it has been waiting for the what is the types module which is that we just recently passed last call so we should be able to move this out of last rep sorry miss ref fairly soon that said a couple of different comments have come in on that document one of them is pretty straightforward is is that there\u0027s some alignment necessary to make with the current with the latest te types document that\u0027s pretty much a no-brainer we could take care of that in queue there were a couple of other comments that are harder to deal with in queue and we expect that those to be brought up on the list and they\u0027ll be it\u0027s really important for working group members to take a look at the issue being issues being raised excuse me and to discuss how they would like to proceed because what I\u0027ll still a little of their thunder by saying that we have a choice and the choice is is can we do something that\u0027s workable with the current document and go forward with publisher publishing it or do we want to bring it back to the working to come up with possibly a more optimal solution so it\u0027s a decision of of optimality versus of what is good enough and we certainly don\u0027t want to publish something if it\u0027s wrong so if there\u0027s something wrong in the document we were going to want to bring it back to the workgroup but if it\u0027s just about optimization we as collectively as a group have to decide which path we want to go so please pay attention to that discussion when it comes up on the working group this font is way too small we have a one-hour session now basically we had requested a two and a half hour session which is our traditional session length that we normally sort of just barely fit into we with the experiment that\u0027s being run this week with not having Friday\u0027s the two and a half hour sessions were done away with and we had a two hour session and we were hoping to squeeze into that two hour session we really couldn\u0027t and that\u0027s the reason why we scheduled this at the last moment we\u0027re gonna take care of a few working group documents in this hour and then continue in our second session with the rest of our agenda and it\u0027s nice because we do have enough time to have some good discussion we have not received any new liaisons we do have one outstanding or one older lays on that it\u0027s still out there and if you\u0027re have any comments or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "thoughts on it the working group is the place to discuss it nothing new here in terms of our IPR process we do formal polling both before adoption and before are as part of working group last call the really important thing here is is if you contribute to a document please respond to this as rapidly as possible to keep our documents being processed efficiently we continue to have a lot of discussions that happen off less the Hmong authors and a certain amount of discussion is is good but I do want to remind we want to remind the authors in particular but other working group participants that if you have an issue with the document if you have a topic that and particularly on a working group document that you think we requires a decision that should be taking place on the working group list if you do it among the authors and come to a decision among the authors and then present it to the working group you\u0027ve actually failed the process because a working group document is owned by the working group it\u0027s not owned by the authors so it\u0027s really critical to make sure that when we want to make a change for working group document we have consensus of the working group on that change consensus of the authors excuse me does not matter consensus of the working group is all that\u0027s important there so please have your discussion on the working group list involve everyone the active players may not change but it gives an opportunity for the whole working group to understand the discussion and understand the conclusion and to provide input if they so choose so the last slide here is is that we did have a work we did have a discussion on the working group list related to our Charter so we had a number of sort of private discussions that we had heard that there were some questions on the Charter and saying that it\u0027s little dated and we wanted to do an update so we start we started a discussion on the on the list of a proposal that we\u0027ve come up with we had some very good feedback and good discussion we did updates based on that and the final version was sent around and was accepted basically by those who chose to participate on the list and the results are still the details are still available and if you\u0027re interested in a red line version and how we got there that\u0027s also available just go look on the main on the mailing list for charter and you\u0027ll find a link to it as well as find that the the current text charters are actually owned by the IES she and shepherded are managed by the area director Deborah and so at this point we believe the working group has done the job provided input to our ad on how we\u0027d like to see the Charter change updated and it\u0027s now with her in the IAS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "g2 to basically adopt or to decide whether or not it gets put in place and I don\u0027t think you\u0027d ever do have any concerns or shaking her head no so we expect this processing to happen over the coming weeks if you have haven\u0027t looked at the changes excuse me the objectives are outlined here and if you\u0027re interested please go take a look at the version that was posted to the the working group list and with that I think that\u0027s okay morning can you guys you yeah so there are 11 documents listed here these are not on the agenda for this week I\u0027ll quickly walk through the status of each of those in the next few slides first up are the two PC and native IP documents this is the experimental work that we adopted early this year the authors did do an editorial scrub and they did provide revisions for both the documents so please do go or the changes and if there are any questions or concerns with the work that\u0027s being done please do bringing that to the list next up is the PC CC use cases document we have a new editor on board for this drew has the pen on this for now there was derivation published for this last month and the authors did align that with the text in the PC CC extension stockman they added a couple of new use cases and also updated an existing one if there are any concerns with the direction that\u0027s being taken by the authors please to bring that to the list they are seeking feedback on the work that\u0027s being done next is the RSVP rmr extension document there were no changes made to the draft since the last idea the authors are currently looking to looking for signalling options for keeping to ring topologies with Express links if you have any review review comments or feedback please bring that to the list as well next is the T metric recording document we did not receive any status report for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "this there were no changes made to this draft since last ITF we still have some outstanding comments that need to get discussed on the list this job has been around for a long time now so you really like to see that get progressed and if there isn\u0027t any interest maybe let it die if there\u0027s anybody here from the other side who would like to give a quick status on where things are that abuse yeah this is suffer the comments I fuck with you last time I think they\u0027re from long time back it\u0027d be good to refresh those comments who\u0027s willing to refresh the document address those comments it close it off they are the archives yeah I know I I fuck with the last time would you look into that and it is there we are willing to address those it I mean if there is any issue with finding cycles in terms of either ship would you like to have some help getting this progress yes sure I do open to anybody here willing to help the far out to progresses how many people are interested in this document so we do have a few hands are those who are interested is anyone willing to help bring this document to closure as in become a co-editor on the document any hands any volunteers okay so I\u0027m not see we\u0027re not seeing any hands so that to us that\u0027s an indication that there people are interested but not all that willing and pushing it forward so I wear at the point where either you have to close get this done by the next IETF or we\u0027re just move it to dead state because it\u0027s going on too long okay I think we\u0027ll take it okay thank you next is the tutorial draft that discusses how the various key models that we are putting together need to be used there was a revision published for this a section on handling bi-directional tunnels was added there there are various features and functionalities for which sections need to get added there\u0027s currently no hurry in getting this to the next stage but that said please do review this as and when you can and reach out to the authors on the list if there are any missing pieces next is the use cases document 4sf aware topology model the text in this has been moved to the SF aver topology model so this is the end of the road for this particular document this morning I did "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:08",
    "text": "move this to a dead State next is the l3t topology model they was a revision for this published last month the authors added a JSON example for how this model needs to get used there is some pending work in terms of aligning with the latest version of the key types module once that gets done this should be ready for young doctors review excuse me this figure so basically just one poor in the ball tutorial there was one big request basically saying that we need a section that is dedicated to packet only T networks and how this was so we need a volunteer basically an experiment packets network to do that so basically we need to call for volunteer is there anybody in the room will be willing to participate in this work yeah we\u0027ll post that question on the list next is the SRT topology model there was elevations published for this as well the scope of this has been reduced SRM pls there are a few there were few missing attributes for prefixes and adjacent sets and for MSD as well that those were added they this needs a round of review before it can progress to the next step this is the last slide in the stack this is an update on the to RSVP models the base RSVP model is ready for a young doctors review as far as the authors are concerned the AH recipe key model needs to undergo a split and then round off review before it can before the authors can claim it\u0027s ready for a young doc distribute that\u0027s where things turn it\u0027s my understanding that this next version can be done very quickly and if that\u0027s correct then I\u0027ll look to the author just did not his head so Tariq is not it please come to the mic if you want to say anything else but with that understanding in mind I think it makes sense for the drafts to be go to yang doctor review together one of the comments that we got as far as the te types is that it was a little difficult doing that document in isolation because of the lack of context now that said there are still some good comments that were made on the list that we are looking forward to the te types authors to address them rapidly so we can get that document submitted for publication so there\u0027s still value but we think it would be good to bundle these together tarik from our so yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "we\u0027re committing to do this split and the company are coming a couple of weeks and and hopefully we\u0027ll do the review and the last call together next tonic yo thanks okay good morning everybody I am hoping everybody can hear me well if not I\u0027ll get closer to the mic yeah okay so this is a update on the yang the data model for traffic engineering activity that is covered by the following two drafts my name is tarick I\u0027m presenting on behalf of the co-authors yes okay in terms of the changes summary of the changes since the last IETF meeting that we\u0027ve had we\u0027ve done I split of the documents and I\u0027m gonna go over that split in details in the coming slides there were there was a review on one of the documents and we\u0027ve received a number of comments that we addressed as well and we will go through them in subsequent slides I\u0027ll close off with next steps and asks towards the end okay so from the last night ETF we have presented and we agreed on a restructuring of the draft yang - te to split it into two - two standalone documents want to contain the common tea types and the other one is to cover the MPLS te tunnel MPLS technology specific modeling and for this purpose we\u0027ve created these two drafts that I have up there for the tea types draft it progressed and it has undergone a working group last call as well as we\u0027ve done a review from the working group specifically from that we\u0027ve received a review comments from from Matt as well as the yang doctor from yang so in the two slides that are upcoming I\u0027ll go over the the review comments that we received and how we went about to resolve them this slide talks about the comments from the yang doctor the first comment was to clarify the usage of aro "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:10",
    "text": "sub-object index so we\u0027ve addressed that by replacing this by an explicit route it\u0027s meant to be an explicit route object or hop and it\u0027s in the arrow lists or explicit route lists we\u0027re using an index to identify an entry in this list it\u0027s not a leafless because an entry can be repeated as you know we can have multiple node IDs in the same euro list so we\u0027ve opted for having an index as the key but we will address by adding text to describe that and how it\u0027s used the next comment we got from the doctors young doctors review is the use or and need to set more defaults in the model and the team has on purpose try to avoid setting defaults unless it is dictated by a standard or RFC and we\u0027ve let the different vendor implementations set their defaults obviously for Interop they would have to change the default so that it matches on both party implementation so this is the approach that we\u0027ve taken if you think that we need to dictate a certain default and a certain parameter then it\u0027s the time to speak about that the third comment we got is the use of - ID in the parameter naming and they are not used as keys in the list so these are something like note ID or link ID so in our application we don\u0027t use these IDs as keys because they can repeat in the same list multiple times so if you we\u0027ve used a specific index as a key but they are IDs that identify a network element and the internet work itself so we still want to call them xxx - ID but it\u0027s not a key and hopefully the and ahktar would be okay with that the last comment we got was to be consistent in terms of the identity naming lower case upper case we we had mixed usage and we will align the varying recommendation of lower case in this slide I\u0027ll go over the comments that I got or we got from that and we thank Matt for that there was a missing identity for one plus one Alice P protection we will add that in the model there was a te optimization criteria which covers two metrics in fact we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "using this in the topology model this identity and we have a similar identity which encompasses more metrics it\u0027s called the objective function type and and we will replace the topology model the new identity and retire this one so we will be addressing Matt\u0027s comment with this there was a comment made about we are using a normative reference to the other models in the types and that makes those dependencies on this type model and we wanted to avoid that to begin with so we will remove any reference to the importing models and that e-types my draft so that it can progress on its own and the last comment was about the teehee topology I D scope is it local scope is it globally unique in the network so we will clarify that this ID is unique within the provider and client so we\u0027ll add text around that to describe how its allocated and the scope of uniqueness so in terms of the the mother document yang - te we have splitted as I mentioned in the previous slide before the split we have made editorial colleges and restructuring the document and we did this but for MPLS technology module to stand alone in a separate a draft so in terms of the documents and how they stand right now we we have the main document yang - te and it was split into three documents the yang - te will contain the technology independent or technology agnostic parameters and we have the second document which is MPLS specific and the stand-alone third document is the common te types this is how the organization of documents has resulted up to date one slide yeah that\u0027s the one so in terms of next steps the te types is progressing and we\u0027ve addressed the comments and we\u0027re following up on the resolution with reviewers and hopefully to progress the publication with respect to the yang - te draft it is ready for working group last call and the yang dr. review to follow and lastly the last document still needs to undergo "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:13",
    "text": "of rounds of editing and review before we asked for the working group last all so that that\u0027s our plan in terms of progress and updating ego go ahead so there was a comment from young doctors with respective defaults right there are not sufficient number of default set in the types and I think it\u0027s a very valid comment basically when we do not assert a default we require like active choice right this like a choice architecture issue and active choice require basically good understanding of all options even for things that you do not really care about so I know ninety percent of the time when people have choices they always go with the false and this is a good way to basically not what kind of relic choices we as co-authors expect okay so I think we should take this particular comment quite seriously and put defaults like a reasonable from our point of view any place we think so counter view to that about defense yeah I have a small comment is if I mean its controversial setting a certain value on a parameter different people might have I might think about it differently and so if you think we have to have a consensus on the value and probably the best way is to right or right at or a separate draft set such parameters if you think that they should be set as default and so the comment that I heard the authors say this is the authors say is that the only defaults that are specified are those that come from documents given the scope of how we\u0027re going to use these types and different technologies and the different I personally so I\u0027m speaking as a contributor I think that\u0027s a very wise choice and that otherwise what we\u0027ll end up with is a default that\u0027s very appropriate for one of us is going to be very inappropriate for another of us and by us I mean an implementation running in a particular context or a particular technology so that\u0027s my deal the point that almost eager again the point that I was trying to make is that basically no default it means that you have to do active choice okay so the models are usually written in such a way that you may care only about like a small part of the model and you just like when you set "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:14",
    "text": "up a software okay you always go normally with default right you do not pick up options whom you do not understand and to provide a customized solution right so basically in some cases it should be like you know deliberate choice to say no default please pick up the option but in many cases it should be a reasonable option to set right so why not here so I think for the defaults I I would say it\u0027s it\u0027s strictly like case by case so in the past like implementation the interrupt experience I would view some of the defaults might be necessary but not all of them I think like it could be done either by you know if you really care about the defaults because different implementation is to be you know on the same page when doing intro it has to be explicitly specified or you could use a policy local policy to define the defaults I agree if you if you think there\u0027s a parameter that is very important for Interop and there is a default that you to propose I think the best way is to put it out on the list and let\u0027s talk about it just one last comment so basically when you said defaults you do not preclude to put any choice you want right it\u0027s just basically a what would be normally a good idea to set in this case but yeah if you do not have any defaults it means that you have to go through all choices and it could get confused people so now that you anybody else has anything on that topic before we jump wrap it so now that you have done the split and you have the T types yet module you should let the RSAF just know that there\u0027s no I mean they can fix the mistress and they were also a couple of items that you listed that or artists as part of the young dog distribute that may have a bearing on the teeter party mode that\u0027s server I take that to the list as well yeah we will be sending an email about those and and see how we here yeah so there were multiple options how the topology of model draft will progress for things that are necessary to align the topology document the apology document with the finalized version of te types right that I think is sufficient to put proposal out on on the working group and get agreement on that and then put it give it to the RFC editor and have them make the changes in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:14",
    "text": "edit in editor note so that\u0027s part of the reason why we block we have this miss ref state is to take care of to ensure we don\u0027t end up with misalignment between documents I see so you know we\u0027re actually take we\u0027re doing exactly recovering exactly the case that Miss ref exists for so that\u0027s good there was I know there were some other right now off list discussions about more substantive changes that are not necessary to align with T types but based on some implementation experience that is that that\u0027s what falls into the category of one of those things it has to be discussed on the list and we\u0027ll see where we want to go with that okay so the two items that you had in this which is mostly idle tariffs edition of identity revs and using a specific grouping that\u0027s already there indeed time right food that would fit well into this unlikely where t types you\u0027d make changes to the T type so it adding I mean changing the my stuff took care of that okay yeah may take it to the list will have shown us we will list them the problem okay thanks that was a thing thank you YUM basically question to the chairs that do you think we can ask for us call for tea tunnel molar at this point I didn\u0027t hear that we actually did it okay yeah good morning my name is Jung Lee on behalf of many courses and contributors I\u0027d like to present service functionality topology young model it doesn\u0027t work I have no idea okay yeah this is a status I think as haben gave some heads up about use case document that was used for this topology model I think use case now having a hard time in 80 reviews to move because of this is informational so the cursor is made a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:14",
    "text": "decision to put use case as part of topology model into the appendix so if this is good direction I liked if it is not a good direction I left here from the working group today and and second thing is that this draft does not model service function and vnf resource abstraction in in this model because living it to SC NFP and other organization who specialize vnf resource model and we just maintain reference to the vnf type for future use if we have a good model from other organizations we just pointed to and we can use their resource extraction but just in case that some model they may not be defined by SC and FP and maybe ITF can future or defined those resource model I think one use case I can think of is a regenerator model I think one of the use cases regenerator as a service function then might be worked on in T\u0027s or C camp working group down the road but we don\u0027t have that you know work started but I just want to give you some example but mostly I believe that as ENFP should come up with good resource abstraction model so we\u0027re going to adopt that okay so for the types you can Li use strings use a leaf therefore yeah I\u0027m gonna show ya just go back okay yeah yes so if you look at the model that we augment basically a tunnel termination point from te our topology and we leave service function and turn ultimate terminations and and we use a service function ID that reference to a service function down the road and also we point to a service connection point which is kind of access note that the resource is located so we use this to ID to reference but abstraction is not here just place a pointer okay yeah so next step is I think the model is ready for young doctors review and draft with live it is ready for working group last call at this moment comments so if you scroll back the IDs you said there pointers it\u0027s a string right so what are they this is to the terminology "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:15",
    "text": "that\u0027s being defined in other groups right okay mm-hmm I have to say I looked at the tree but I didn\u0027t look at the definition I didn\u0027t do you have it I get if you list where those definitions are in the document yes okay yeah okay so please this I know this was a discussion point at the last meeting so this is how the point that was raised about the identifiers and the other groups is being addressed so it\u0027s really good to go look at it we had talked about whether it made sense to talk to the SFC group at all about this yeah actually I took two Jin who is also cause of this document and he said they don\u0027t do that there yeah so they deferred to here I mean they refer to working tease or NFP you know SC all right okay okay okay good morning my name is Sergio Bilotti I\u0027m going to update about draft on pad competition RPC okay first the credits to all the people that is working was on this draft Karen Francesco that is not here and all the people stack and the guys from T tunnel for which on which we work together to document that is aligned with the eternal model and thanks for all the discussion about the clarifying that they issue for the pad setup and the suggestion from drew about the verification phase that has been added in the document so the summer the changes so we have added text to clarify the point that has been discussed in the Middle East a garden the fact that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:17",
    "text": "path being set up is not necessarily the same as the one returned it in during the path computation and and we add the text because a new phase that has not been provided in the the old version of the path computation that is a verification phase is needed to check if that the real path that is actually being set up meet the required end-to-end matrix and constraint then we have updated the young model aligning on the fact that the path the model is able to return the matrixes they used to pack to make the path computation but now is also the possibility to allow requesting the path as allergy and affinities to be reported in the feedback of path computation and then we corrected bugs and issue as providing the our github okay one of the open issue that is remain open is regarding the T eternal attributes we have a long discussion about the fact that we consider that we have we would need a subset of attribute that is using T eternal and but in the previous ITF there was some comments regarding the fact that some attribute could be used by policy based but computation polity is not yet specific fight there is discussion and they issued 31 regarding this issue in the indica tab Frankie speaking there is not clear outcome on the mailing list how to proceed in the sense that if we need to assume that the polity is not needed and so we can select our subset of attributes needed for part computation provide that the set of attribute has not been disgusted in the details so this is our some clarification would be needed to close the point do you want to discuss these now at the end on the list what are you thinking about the open issues I think maybe the mini list "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:19",
    "text": "that would be the best things in the sense I don\u0027t think that just discuss now can draw the point I don\u0027t know maybe yes but that well perhaps is to get people thinking about the list discussion exact state your maybe state your position on what even if it\u0027s just you personally yeah what how you think it should be resolved and to get to get some people thinking about how to talk about the issue yeah because we already provide our personal i know it\u0027s but the yeah but people are listening to you now yeah just to remind what we discussed about is that we think that in order to make absolutely sure that the path returned by their pc will be exactly the same as the path that would be computed for tunnel when it\u0027s provisioned okay we I personally at least think that you need to provide the entire set of configuration parameters for the tunnel and the reason for that that there could be policies used in the locusts or past computation that might use parameters that are not necessarily a path computation specific so and the whole point that this policies may not be known outside of the server that\u0027s why basically to make simply sure that we\u0027re not actually compute paths were basically compute for the tunnel we set up a tunnel in the board that basically only computes bus but doesn\u0027t go beyond that so the discussion on the list was that there is no much harm to keep that because those parameters are what you know anyway so that was at least my position in there tarek Francisco I agree with Igor and the fact that the policy model is not there I don\u0027t think it should block your progress you know that tribute can be passed they can be ignored by the computation server and when the policy model comes in they can leverage those optional attributes if you want to think of it this way now the problem is that if we decide to stay as it is so to use just a subset of attributes and not all is one things in the scientist is is like it is the young model if we need to have a complete align on the on the articles these imply some modification I\u0027m proposing that you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:21",
    "text": "use the full set although there but they can be ignored on the server side can be in your because it\u0027s optional yes I mean this is my proposal that maybe you just disagree are you just using a grouping is already a grouping the point is that the fact we we asked whether actually we use a for a solution with our grouping with the subset of this is our situation is as soon as this politician policy is not defined we do not know why to change because we don\u0027t know how to justify to have the list of our taboos that is not I think you\u0027ve just heard justification is by providing it you have full flexibility yeah that\u0027s the justification is justification there is a long long male that doesn\u0027t not be answered by our contributors Francesco that is explain how and why this policy is a contradictory situation so it is not but no one has answered these this means so this is also why we stick on this point so basically what we want to avoid the situation when you ask for past complication for tunnel and comes up with some path but when you provision the tunnel with exact same parameters it comes with a different path and the reason for that was that because say there was something in the tunnel name on some parameters which are not specific to path computation the words basically tweaking in path constraints that were set internally and if this happens it means that path computation is useless right because it provides a meaning meaningless information okay so what does it mean other two paths exist when when you provision the very same tunnel and it goes totally different or said there is no path at all let\u0027s take one comment from it alone and then we can jump to the next shot yes yes I think that that situation is difficult to avoid and we have another option that we are starting to discuss and also if we provided our at the attribute and the user doesn\u0027t know that he has to provide an attribute it can also do the same problem you create but you setter you request a computation you don\u0027t provide an attribute that your server is using that then you request the setup of the ton and then you provide is a to do because you need a tunnel name a tunnel description in a tunnel setup and then you get exactly the same problem so it\u0027s unavoidable that there is a risk that there is no congruence and in the nest - "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:24",
    "text": "unless you have added a thanks to Drew then I did a pad verification phase that\u0027s the only way you make sure that you get exactly what you want is after you have set up you check that idea you got exactly what I want in fact for Moodle probably is not a related to the fact that the path then this is set up is different because this is one of the case we have already mentioned that and for this case we have the part very fit exam here\u0027s the dewy-eyed also covers that the situation in the case of policy you will bow so be cover unless with the policy you want to constrain that but that\u0027s exactly what Francesca is saying then you have to specify exactly how policy works you cannot have it edan if it is eaten then you get into a lot of uncertainties so our position was that the to refused the fact that the police is he dead if the policy is there okay has to be explicit so I\u0027m sorry just last comment I completely disagree with Ito law so the whole point is that all we\u0027re requiring is that when you ask for past computation and then you specify exact same parameters for the tunnel you get identical pass okay so if you miss for example certain parameters then you will get the same response in both paths computation and a tunnel setup okay so there is a it\u0027s not like for example the user need to know or doesn\u0027t need to know so the point is that if he knows or doesn\u0027t know there the end result will be the same okay this one Coleman right and the second comment is that we do not need explicit policies to be known outside it could be something which is totally proprietary to the server and we still can deal with that okay just because we will provide the same set of parameters all their requirements is just a little bit extra flexibility that\u0027s all so there\u0027s clearly a pretty strong difference of opinions here I\u0027m not sure if those who would like to see voiced the opinion of bringing in all the parameters passing all the parameters of notice but there\u0027s some new text that\u0027s shown up in section 33 that really relates to this on the on the verification phase and I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s gonna fully discussed on the list and I think maybe have you talked about it a little more here or know about the but the additional yeah so that that\u0027s really goes to the heart of this discussion and it is important that you know authors have a lot of discretion on how to make sure that they\u0027re documenting consensus of the working group and there\u0027s nothing wrong with them publishing putting some new text in and publishing it but then you have to make sure the working group eyes in so it would be good to talk about those those changes the particular vacation has been discussed in the mailing list before to added the text and it was a good suggestion from Drew that provide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:26",
    "text": "these comments and then we followed this comment yes but I read it as a little broader and basically leaving the door open for this difference in policy being applied or the the centralized path being computed differently than what\u0027s in the network because of this policy problem so it\u0027s it to be read is a little bit biased towards one conclusion than the other anyway so let\u0027s keep going but this is an important thing that to keep the discussion going we have to get some consensus here and I don\u0027t think we have it yet okay but that is you\u0027re saying yes so thank you for the discussion good cotillion so okay so go back okay no it\u0027s okay um there was another discussion that an issue that we consider okay there was some mail in the mailing list last time before ITF 102 about the fact that there was some alignment needed about the piece at five features and young models and one of the example is for example now in the desert there is the possibility to relax and constrain and to permit path computation to avoid taking to account some constraint in case this cannot be in honored in young model in theater now we have same feature but providing completely different mechanism with another list of part computed with different constrain and then the possibility to choose one or the other depending on the optimization purpose so question for the working group is that if it is needed to have a completely alignment we need to reconcile that or not this is a just an example there are other cases I personally provide with the other Co out of our computation a set of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:28",
    "text": "differentiation they get not get mad disalignment between Passat and the young model and question is that if it is the case or not that they did the different functionalities can be aligned it or not so tarik from Cisco just to clarify the tea tunnel how the approach that we took and we discussed this on our weekly meetings and min labs yeah so setting multiple constraints as optional it it\u0027s not clear which one would be more favorable to drop on the server side if you have multiple of them that contradict so the approach that we took is if an example would be you\u0027re trying to include links multiple links in your computation and you cannot include all of them so you fall back on the best number of links that you can include so what we said is optimize the inclusions so if you can include all of them that would be best if you cannot include as many as you can so this is the approach that we presented in the model is try to optimize inclusion or optimize exclusion if possible and it\u0027s clear then that you\u0027re doing the best effort in that when you\u0027re setting the constraint as optional multiple of them it\u0027s not clear the server how will they interpret which one is more favorable than the other one you know one one problem that we Haven is that we do not have the definition what does that mean constrain the relaxation right so for example one interpretation would be is that if you cannot satisfy this constraint you have to take it completely out of the picture okay the second interpretation could give that you still use this constraint but treat it like basically gently so you do not refuse the path selection but but you basically treat it as not a very stringent constraint so we we can address both of the cases but we do need to define what does it mean consolidation means okay so as Derek\u0027s explained we have a way to do this soft constraints right we will do as best as we can to follow the constraint but we will be okay if we do not satisfy or satisfy it only partially okay we also can drop constraints if necessary because we have multiple candidates when we request past computation at an establishment every time when configure a tunnel so whether we need alignment with PCA it\u0027s also a good question so why it has to be this way I do not necessarily understand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:33",
    "text": "drove from Huawei in my mind one thing is important is what is the cost of alignment is it too much because it\u0027s specially in this case the way if you every leaf has a bit now a science which says whether you are mandatory or an optional that will just make our whole yang model kind of extremely weird so the cost is too high to align this thing if we can come up with a very good way a smarter way to do that and to model it that yes some Leafs are because in encoding you have a bit you can easily do it and yang it\u0027s kind of difficult so even from config we rarely do that like when you are configuring configuring these constraints you don\u0027t do it you might have some policy somewhere which might trigger your P sub request do not set the bit and then set to bit so if you can come up with a good way to model it then alignment is always good but if it\u0027s the cost is really higher then maybe we should reconsider so I recommend roof to take a look into this model the cursor we do not we do not actually insist on mandatory versus optional Leafs all we\u0027re saying is that for example explicit path could be optimization criteria as much as everything else and just like you can optimize on the shoulders we can optimize on how you follow the their explicit hopes that you specify okay if you can do all of them fine if you can do only half of them also fine and this is all depends how it\u0027s related to your other permutation criteria like delay of course okay so we don\u0027t say okay this could be taken out or basically all concerns that are specified are mandatory unless you go to a second candidate word which actually excludes them in my mind drove again I like what how the piece F has specified its being there from five four four zero and it\u0027s it\u0027s the best we have and the example that Eric said about hops I\u0027m confused by that because that\u0027s like lose hops versus strict hops that\u0027s not exactly whether the whole object is mandatory or not in piece of used to either the whole iro that object is optional not sub objects of objects are you\u0027re loose bit that you have in the sub object so we need to discuss this I don\u0027t think so they\u0027re more generic so I\u0027m not sure how important this question really is I think the way I would think about this is to say that the user of this network going all the way up to the operator is is gonna want to set up the path with some kind of constraints in mind and they aren\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:33",
    "text": "necessarily gonna care whether that set of constraints is translated into piece F or yang or or whatever right and and the important thing is to make sure that we can translate those constraints into either a meaningful piece F or a meaningful they can\u0027t yank encoding and make sure that the two things that we specified are functionally complete enough that they can model the same set of requirements that an end user has I don\u0027t think we have to say that they must work the same way but I think it is important that they are able to express the same level of richness in terms of what operators want to have so that\u0027s why I would look at it I mean to take your your example here I think we are just looking at there are two kind of equivalent ways of doing the same thing that the TE yang model gives you a list that you can choose from Pisa actually can do the same thing as the little known think about pset but the the the PC can con can return a list of candidate paths to the PCC allowed by PCC to choose from what it likes so it you know it\u0027s it looks slightly different but it does the same thing I don\u0027t think we have a difference there maybe there are other places where we do have an actual literal difference and then we have to figure out how to address those but I I don\u0027t see a problem in terms of as long as they do the same thing I don\u0027t think they have to look exactly the same let just one thing the example is just to say that in this case it is not so trivial to understand that is clearly the same because one is practically a variable that can be true or false in the sense that it is mandatory or no mandatory the constraint the other one is a mechanism that is not trivial to understand how to\u0027s work in fact what we want to have is an explanation in the tutorial to explain how this works so the example is not provided in case but is on purpose because in this case that the alignment is not so easy because it is the same feature but provided in different way that there are other cases say that the die stance is just a-- to fix the gap add something and . but in this case you know in cutoff five minutes over I\u0027d "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:34",
    "text": "like to if possible you know this is exactly the type of discussion that is perfect for the working group so we\u0027d like to continues exactly where we are when we meet next which biking on when that is okay so it\u0027s to tomorrow at 4:10 so you\u0027re everyone\u0027s good resume the same positions you "
  }
]