[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:18",
    "text": "we use the sacrament meeting so I have no idea how to do how to join a meeting [Music] [Music] that\u0027s the rule [Music] hi we need somebody to take minutes just record actions and somebody to be the jabber scribe for the 6-8 people that are currently in the jabber room at least to our remote any volunteers obviously we can\u0027t start until we get those volunteers and yo points out that our agenda has shrunk so we have about 20 minutes free time so we can just sit here waiting for two people of our volunteer for nearly half an hour if that\u0027s what it takes thank you Matt is that someone know who shoots and the blue sheets are going around "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:42",
    "text": "yes thanks oh come on it\u0027s only the first session of the week you can\u0027t all be burnt out on volunteering for a minute I know you right so it\u0027s one of the stressor people have to leave we want to get their input here updates if somebody please volunteer to take the minutes well you can take the minutes and then leave and then we\u0027ll be stuck again right Thank You Robin yep okay thank you Robin everybody yes okay close the doors let\u0027s get sorted okay welcome to the acne session here at IDF 105 in Montreal mm-hmm I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen this but this is the first time you\u0027ve seen it this week so it hasn\u0027t changed much on the agenda today obvious gender bashing administrivia that\u0027s the streets going around and finding scribes and mayor takers and the note well which we have already seen then we\u0027re going to do in status update I\u0027m gonna get update on telephony with no slides from John and we had planned to have a presentation about TLS LPN but since neither Rowland nor Jacob are in or in Montreal and they haven\u0027t sent slides jacob is the jabber room so yeah we\u0027ll include it in their plate unless Jacob wants to hop in from remote and then start allegation Acme integration from Alexi about email and you know then two things from Kathleen any agenda bashing ok on to status so we have new versions of the telephony and the s/mime drafts the star delegation was allowed to expire but okay but we might be reviving it now and I\u0027ve seen that I wrote that twice yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:42",
    "text": "[Music] acne AP and the TLS LPN or in is G processing there we need a revision of TLS al PN which should be this week anyone want to jump to the mic and say something about that Jacob yes so to summarize with acne IPD I mean it\u0027s ready to go I\u0027ve just been holding to because I wanted to batch together that document with TLS you know because they\u0027re so interrelated my kind of my remaining points on on a opiate novelist and I think there\u0027s one outstanding one from a group so we can close that one plus the minor ones I added weekend advances that was Roman didn\u0027t he speak moments Rab matthew miller echoing for Jacob he does believe ruin will get to this week and he\u0027ll bug him when he gets back vacation today cool so also acne star is an ITF last call which is why start allegation is and now revitalizing and CA is best is G processing so it\u0027s now in the RFC attackers queue hopefully we\u0027ll get an RFC by next ITF so this is just to finesse together the exact word and back to the third bullet acne uh pls a that\u0027s actually still with me we have not advanced that you the whole is G okay anything else about the updates good so next are the presentations and looking back at the agenda first up is John with telephony update oh and no slides so you don\u0027t get last year so it\u0027s not like we have something particularly new to present at this point that\u0027s hardly because actually changes that we\u0027re still contemplating these faster president at this point our thing is that have yeah versions pendency these are decisions that were still kind of rolling over in the storica group I just be an example of one of these we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:42",
    "text": "have this thing that\u0027s in Mersin TP from six that\u0027s called JWT constraints and this gets really into no we were just up in aster uses these certain and passports right passports basic idea negative constrains Jones you just took the mic no it\u0027s Mike the switch maybe yeah okay that\u0027s a switch oh look at the hand that\u0027s pretty fancy I can hear the sound of my own voice so yeah like I said this is kind of in the weeds of stir but like we have these passports that are getting signed by these certificates and these are j2 80 based tokens and so we have this concept in RC 82 26 of having a JWT constraints element and what this means on the cert is basically it can dictate which JDO ET claims you\u0027re allowed to insert into one of these tokens and it kind of occurred to us it might be handy actually have the token authority be able to issue those constraints when you know someone is trying to get a passport I trying to get a certificate back mean so as a consequence of that we\u0027re still kind of mulling that there\u0027s a particular use case for it that\u0027s associated with our rich call display draft our CD but our CD is kind of still in flux at the moment once I think we know where we\u0027re gonna land on that we\u0027ll be able to decide whether we want this JWT constraints actually be part of the ATC that we have developed here in the Acme working group or not and so you know that that\u0027s pending otherwise I think these graphs are in pretty good shape at this point and so yeah well we\u0027ll be back with that we may do that like later this week just bang this out and put a new version into the repository the issue is stir is like in you know 40 minutes and so we kind of want to see what\u0027s gonna happen there and then then we\u0027ll make a decision about that so that\u0027s where we are any questions comments thoughts well I just think that great if after this term meeting you can send a message to the list saying where we are on this okay okay thank you so next one who the delegation is Diego in the room yes good okay this is this is a draft that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:49",
    "text": "was created some time ago just a little bit of history it was created some time ago was a semi we split my request of the of the group we played the original star mechanism into star only which is about the request and the way in which searching the identity owner could delegate they use it because thinking of the scenario of typical scenario of a CDN the idea that we split 80 at the document into to start this went on its way and is close to be published and the case of the delegation was part of another of another document that originally the group asked us to to go to sec dispatch to see whether this is something that belongs to what may or it was something that to be considering another in another group they point the conclusion from sex dispatch was to bounce us back here so here well here we we came some time ago the draft was adopted and let\u0027s interrupt a little bit about the story because we will talk about why it was expired basically it rose about an identity owner that receives a request for delegation typically think of a CDN node that wants to use the certificate for for the identity owner without exposing private keys or whatever so what the entity owner does is precisely request for that for a four star certificate a temporaries at the temporary certificate using Acme and the NDC the name delegation client pulls the certificates a temporary certificates and use it allowing the the identity owner to revoke them immediately without sending a revocation but just stopping the the serving Yule this is this is basically the the idea is that well there is a request that goes with the see Assad that has to go from the NDC up to the I do that is the one that makes the request and and since he at the URL for pulling the certificates the private keys never left never leave the be NBC no the any any private material from the identity on research force is only that the identity owner express as willingness of via of the certificate being generated the reason this is something that we discuss or challenges why is important just another I say this precisely because typically and NDC and an idea or are living in different domains and their relationships is not precisely an internal is not well state goes we is true as do office aid is that it has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:49",
    "text": "been expired because and this is our fault and only or fault of the others that were much more focus on the main star draft trying to align with it and we let the time past simply and we frankly we failed in making the usual cosmetic update just changing names in numbers on a date as well but we have formally inspired we had not abandon it and are buying ongoing discussion with you currently documented use cases that one is a steer precisely the other one is the CDN interconnection in which they are explicitly mentioned the this well what we are trying to do it most precisely to understand which other day the specific requirements well and that\u0027s true respect again so this is something that we will solve as soon as we can mr. Sirk delegation definitely you know we have no real story about how to do like shortly stuff with anencephaly I think there is an overlap I know one constraint that is unusual for a starship obligation is we want to be able to narrow the namespace of these locations was used something like yeah an accomplishment that you support that G\u0027s is in the list of the things that we have to consider possessing few different categories of identifiers and figuring out how to do encompassing no no it should be I mean it should be doable I believe it should be doable right now if you look at the at the document is not precisely good okay so there are some open questions is right now zero zero is an adopted zero zero version the message flow we are reasonably happy with us with it but well whoever is willing to have a look at it and tell us and tell us what he or she thinks it would be really really appreciated now there are a few things that we have in mind one is about the composition patterns with the other how we combine the flow for delegation with the flow for the agree star requirements once that the ACMA star flow is skia second is precisely the naming interactions were John was mentioning it\u0027s about how you narrow or within the weather than the the way in which you interact with the identify mapping system DNS is what we have in mind what probably others how this is the CSR the CSR that goes from the NDC up to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:50",
    "text": "idea is validated I\u0027m going whether we need them more detail on that and something that has appeared in interaction with the CDN guys is whether we need to make to have a way of publishing and making available which is a CSR template that is suspected to be used by the baby NDC so that that\u0027s a few reflections initial reflections about about the different the couple of use cases one is steel and possess so it is a abstraction from DNS in that it would be wider in terms of a generic naming Authority and making because star delegation considers DNS specific things that we should have to make optional or bring some mapping in the case of a CD an idea is that suppose the the is that there is a upstream CDN that is delegating some access to a downstream CDN so it is how would you expose the requirements for the delegation in this in this in the the requirements for the delegation of the identity in the content allocation requests and well there are some concerns at these theories Vivian is not limited is not you may have a chain of here key of delegations and how these affect something that is such to a couple of identities and how this propagates is something that we have to elaborate the little bits because personally I don\u0027t like the idea of a proxy of proxy of a proxy of a proxy and this is another discussion with the CDN hi guys and as far as I can tell this is the zone we are where I\u0027m going you will see a zero one very soon and I hope it will be a little bit more than a cosmetic update okay thank you questions we\u0027re really running ahead of schedule this planning on me how many people are planning on reading the spec all right quarter of the room that\u0027s pretty good rameneh do how many are plan to implement this they come and then they will just be a CBN I guess at least that\u0027s their scroller yeah so I\u0027d like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:51",
    "text": "to hear from some reasoning I\u0027m with this and make sure that we\u0027re actually in their needs and they\u0027re such people exist initially put on ice well by what they could lose possessory I mean John is saying that they this is a speedy guys in the city and I would make segments or I\u0027ll ask them because I wanna meet them all right next okay so next in the agenda oh and this time it is the fourth tab Hey so there\u0027s a couple use cases were looking at and primarily around certificate enrollment for devices for hardware endpoints and we think Acme can be used to solve a lot of those problems these cases we recognize and one of the things that will help with the second main bullet here is Acme can actually be used for issuance of soft mint certificates this isn\u0027t really clear and obvious from the draft but it\u0027s actually technically allowed from the drafts are going to go through that and when we use acne for issuing a soft mint certificate it will just optimize issuing of large volumes of certificates for clients and devices and some of the use cases were looking at for a hardware endpoints integration on est integration with brewski integration with t p-- and integration with TP risky that the thing about EFT Brisky t panting briskly is these specifications define how the endpoint connects to the server but none of them specify how the server connects to the back end CA whether that server be eni\u0027s tra order that server B at each server the integration between the server and the CA is out of scope there\u0027s a couple of related drafts so recapping cathing have drafts here and we have had some and these drafts cover client enrollment and device one first if could use an acme and we have some pretty many discussions about alignment to these three drafts I went to the site meeting scheduled so anybody who\u0027s interested in using acne for issuing client and device certificates please attend the site meeting so lots of them inserts for product remanded if you read if you read the draft in detail a key mandates that the identifier in the CSR must match it and for in the new order request and the identifier and the authorization object must be used when fulfilling HTTP or Tina\u0027s challenges Arachne does not mandate is that the identify new order request matches to identifier in an authorization object so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:52",
    "text": "what this means for a CA if I ca implementing a controls to do so an acting server could issue certificates for a subdomain if declined to only fulfills a challenge for the parent domain so this is actually technically allowed by the Acme draft of ran through this is Richard this way Richards on the co-authors and we think this is an interesting use case if an ACME C is willing to allow a policy like this and so what that would mean is that an ACME client could prove ownership fulfill a challenge for a parent domain and then issue a larger number of client certificates or subdomains of that parent domain which is a nice optimization it reduces all DNS of traffic and challenges so what this culture looks like for supplemental pre-authorization and on the left hand side with the standard floor for pre-authorization of parent domain and declined post the new authorization endpoint and if you run through the steps there it\u0027s straight out yacking standard and the client just proves ownership a for parents to me in the example that given this domain calm and there\u0027s nothing the draft that precludes step two happening and step two you is the client issues a new order request for a subdomain of that previously challenged fulfilled parent domain and the Acme server can fulfill that order an issue a certificate because there was no text in the Acme draft to prevent that use case and from talking to Richard that is deliberate ever trying to devise certificate integrations est which risky diverges defines the protocol the client used to mollify exchanging pkc as ten and seven payloads with a nice tra and teeth and deliberately bridges and defines a protocol where clients can roll over a teep server and by exchanging because he is ten and because he is seven payloads and what draft we have actually neither das to draft specify how the t p-- server should integrate over the CA or how the e or EST or a sorry the EST or a integrated to see either a theft auto\u0027s culpable drafts so what this draft we have here does illustrate so Acme can be used as a glue to integrate between the est array and an acme server RT p-- server and acne and not well this book may not be strictly true no changes our party is TT for acting specifications we think that the teach standard is actually under specified at the moment and the teach standard doesn\u0027t really deal with how the tip server should react and how the client should react if the tip server is not able to fulfill that because he is 10 requests straight away there\u0027s no back off mechanism doesn\u0027t all the retry mechanism so he believed the tip is currently under specified and the subdomain proposal is a nice optimization it reduces to round trips that would be required if you\u0027re using Acme for certificate issuance sort of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:53",
    "text": "the for client use case is the only one I\u0027ve documented here is the use tqi opinion these culturals were taken straight from the draft on the left-hand side to step on the pre-authorization of the parent domain it\u0027s all very standard than the example of given as pre-authorization of domain.com and on the right hand side home showing his de client interaction with the east tra and the client just sends a standard D is T central DRA DRA replies were to attend to or to retry after and this is the bit that\u0027s missing from t p-- there\u0027s no retry after an t p-- and the east tra then turns around and placed a acme order and what you will notice here is on the left hand side the pre-authorization involves an interaction with dns but for actual certissue ins there\u0027s no interaction with TS there\u0027s no authorization challenges required and for issuing a certificate should be faster and should be more scalable and once the acme server is issued the certificate to the RA and after the client that we trained for this has expired the client should also simply unroll and retry and then the RA can just issue the search straight to the client then so that\u0027s it really short presentation and pretty simply use cases for interesting use cases so the two main things won\u0027t stock what as one is to solve the menus case of interest to acne series and if it is is it what formely documenting because it\u0027s currently allowed by the acme traffic but it\u0027s not immediately obvious and our de client and device use cases of interest to any other implementers so a version of this presentation is going to be given that amuse in you sessions as well and we have the side meeting on Wednesday mornings so anybody who\u0027s just please come to the second meeting mr. morning that\u0027s it Wednesday morning sir Kathleen Moriarty I do think this is worth documenting just from talking to people who are looking at implementing when they see that these gaps exist they can feel that it\u0027s not ready right even though you can do these things so I do think this is worthwhile develop does it definitely yes I mean so know the years that we were discussing were talking about the delegations precisely whether it would be it would throw words people say subdomains and we were like to simplify [Music] ranked rants levy Google so the value in the subdomain just working is valuable in that it aligns with public see Asians I don\u0027t want to suggest that hacking is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:53",
    "text": "only intended for public CAS but it is a nice side effect which is that a public CA has to follow baseline requirements of recurrence and this is an existing pattern that many CAS using can use so there\u0027s value in documenting it the only caveat I throw out there is that in a world of increased automation which is a desirable world of reduced life time for certificates across the board in the industry and again I\u0027m only speaking about public certificates or private ticket it\u0027s not is this maybe profiled out in a future point rank which is there there\u0027s value in actually having the domain authentication bound to the specific domain so it\u0027s possible and I say this on the order of many years you know that this gets profile out in terms of public see days but I don\u0027t think that precludes documenting it now as this one\u0027s with public practice this can be used for a number of interesting use cases when you\u0027re using acting with some of these other use cases so that\u0027s just a caveat that I put out there is that it may be that in the future Acme implementations being used for public CAS don\u0027t use this feature and so any documentation it would be useful to at least keep in mind that we made profiler sure okay so anybody specifically interested in the client entice these cases please attend the site meeting on Wednesday Thanks okay and that brings us to Alexey this was really planned for 11:00 and as I said our agenda is shrinking right this time I only updated one of the documents which is s/mime I think this is getting closer to being done next slide so just don\u0027t mind people what this is trying to do this is basically to be able to issue ex-prime certificates for and user for email addresses the way it works is that the challenge is sent in an email in the subject of email that can be verified as coming from their Akhmatova email client is a document client itself or it can invoke Hockman client you know maybe it\u0027s a special media type can be music might be able to do this manually then the responses sent with the response part and then Acme server can issue a certificate voice my abuse so I sort of had a lot of you know open issues in the document about how you verify that email is challenging mail is coming from a cui server how you verified response and there was also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:56",
    "text": "some questions about specific email details about format and I was trying to balance about between making it very simple to implement for email clients but also trying to make it usable for wide variety of existing email clients and existing libraries so this time I drill down more into email format for challenges and responses mostly syntactic elements I did some tests about putting long strings and subjects and how they will be encoded by existing email clients or web services and yeah basically because of polling length limits in our email specs it\u0027s likely that subject line is going to be folded it means that encoded-word specification has to be used so I initially didn\u0027t want to use it but I think it\u0027s unavoidable so basically IRC twenty to thirty one needs to be used but this is unlimited to utf-8 Oh us a sketch char sets so we don\u0027t want people to require to implement various other things and then yeah similar thing for responses and then basically there was a man in this discussion about how do you actually verify that email challenge is coming from Acme server and tradition two ways of doing this an email is a the dekum signing because the challenge itself in the subject so you want to sign that it\u0027s coming from from address associated with the Acme server assigned the subject and few other header fields or you can use as mine signing with the responses is more difficult because you don\u0027t want to use s mine for responses because the whole point of this is to get a smile too difficult to be able to do that among other things so for responses is probably just Hakeem signing and make sure that SPF and de mark and various other things in use work right next slide yeah I got a couple of questions last week I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t reply to email all those later hopefully today one question was the document currently says the responses need to use re colon space prefix and suggestion was to allow any prefix not a big deal I the way purist and me says "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:58",
    "text": "the only client that generates non re prefixes old version of Outlook that should be banished from the surface of the earth if there are other clients doing this I\u0027m curious to know but you know at the end of the day this is not a big deal it\u0027s the change is going to be whether you compare the whole string but see you compare suffix of itself I mean in computer terms it makes no huge motor difference the other question was I was struggling a bit with you know how simple the structure of challenge and response e-mails can be original I just said it\u0027s it\u0027s to explain messages where for the challenge the challenge itself is on the subject of email so text plan is just explanatory note for response is risk response itself actually contains the response part so I was trying to balance whether you know do you want to require Acme clients to be full email clients you know to allow multi-part mix or maybe allow you know nice HTML text to be included explaining what you do with this challenge how you can handle it manually if you your client doesn\u0027t support like me as my automatically but you know the user can be instructed how to do this still open to suggestions one suggestion was also to use spam like encoding inside to explain so like sort of for certificates and various other objects yeah again depending on your API in your client libraries that might be convenient I personally prefer to tag challenges and responses and you as extra media types which allows to invoke external applications automatically and it\u0027s slightly easier for email clients to to key off to do automatic action but again this is the grand scheme of things it doesn\u0027t matter but we just need to make a choice and move on think next slide so this is a list of mal standing issues I dealt with challenge verification I need to do a bit more work on response verification and again there is still a little bit of open issue about structure of their challenges and responses so more feedback from the mailing list would be useful I think probably one more revision and this can go to Alice Cole "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:58",
    "text": "and then we can I can try to ping various people who who can provide more feedback on you know the structure of the message and ok so not as a chair but if someone who gets a lot of international mail I see aw all the time so going back to the prefixes slide I think maybe just to use the subject line being a suffix is the best yeah a lot of ITF right yes I see Ari : aw : or e : you know I know if this is that old outlook maybe it\u0027s just old outlook but ok ok ask the audience who\u0027s going to implement this has will thinking about mr. Dale can\u0027t go more from the ACLU so there\u0027s different parts of implementation right so one part about being mail user agent implementers who would be willing to do this if there was a site that\u0027s willing to do it yeah so if there\u0027s a CA that\u0027s willing to do this then yeah we\u0027ll have this to a million thank you okay Kathleen you\u0027re up okay so from the last meeting I split out the the one draft I had into two so the basis of this one is just to set a few new challenge types for user authentication focus and that could be for code signing certificates operating within a process where you establish an account first with the CA and then you get credentials to use for that pre-authorization challenge and so I\u0027m proposing one time password key pairs like a phyto account be set up or other certificates be issued for that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:58",
    "text": "pre-authorization so what happens with a code signing certificate is the request goes in and there is a challenge sent back in for eg certificates - typically to administrators within within the account and this would be used for that authorization so I did get some email and private conversations after the last talk and not what not I think crickets on the list right but I did get a bunch in private so I don\u0027t know if people are ready to do this yet or if they like or so so this is the first time I have these three in there last I was just trying to see who is interested so I actually did get some interest is anyone in the room here interested in adding these challenge types okay I do have other people okay so at least one and I do have other people interested which is okay at least to three okay and I do have other people that were interested and I don\u0027t know if any of you are the ones means there was somebody I didn\u0027t know that had contacted me I mean should I just will have to sit a while longer and see if interest grows people not ready for it they don\u0027t like it okay thank you all right so that\u0027s at least four and with the interest of four is that implementors yes okay so all right and I have other people is why I\u0027m standing up here all right so okay all right good thank you so please send comments and feedback okay by the way it\u0027s Thomas for snotty under the that was nothing the job of expressing interest thank you Mary um this is the first great excellent thank you yeah I\u0027d appreciate any feedback or if there are types that I missed that should be incorporated as well I didn\u0027t put too much time into this because I wanted to get interest look cool alright next one so I split out these two drafts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:59",
    "text": "after a message from Richard Barnes and some conversations with Owen and we have to sort out like what we should do with all of these drafts I just want to go to the next slide so when I talk about this work people just see the let\u0027s encrypt work and the RFC eight five five five and they get lots of I\u0027ve gotten lots of questions that of things I think Owen head said this things that you can do with acne but it\u0027s not clear from the draft and then people are hesitant to go forward because they think it has to fit in with the realm of what let\u0027s encrypt does so this would be informational I think we have to sort out maybe in the Wednesday meeting what Doc\u0027s go where or here ideally but what\u0027s useful are there other questions that need to be answered that other people are getting like I get ones like okay where can you store the keys and it\u0027s orthogonal right so you could use pkcs 11 but it doesn\u0027t say it anywhere in RFC a five five five I know I know John John\u0027s face yeah yes it should be obvious but apparently it\u0027s not right and then there was long mailing list discussions on things like comparing it to esthe but that wasn\u0027t captured and you have to go back and read a mailing list so I\u0027ve gotten lots of questions on that and then being able to use a challenge type for a different type of certificate you know you just have to change the the CSR and it has a different cert type but that\u0027s not obvious either so yeah some of this might be silly is it worth documenting and improving this or as an informational draft or not what do people think I\u0027m happy but this I didn\u0027t put a lot of time into yet I there so it can be much improved but I think the more we want people to implement encryption on PKI as an infrastructure as a default the more we can do to reduce obstacles to that adoption the better so favor Seldon explain crypto to sympathy for anyone okay great so comments and feedbacks to improve it would be appreciated yeah I mean this is like interesting material I think rc-- seems like an odd way to do it they\u0027re gonna have an import questions that people are going to have it\u0027s like a fax kind of it\u0027s more needed here also remember what a little sort of sad about the material in here this you\u0027re like why not ask that seems like like I think you did what he sidestepped those questions in the working group and like I\u0027m sort of watch into it like like I find another "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:00",
    "text": "you sure explain why did you perform I end up were to go be be or sad and like I don\u0027t think you had that funny yeah so it was answered on the mailing list in detail but people who aren\u0027t feeling following mailing list aren\u0027t seeing that so it\u0027s just stuff that I\u0027ve been asked yes I\u0027ve read the draft segment there\u0027s some useful stuff in here some stuff that yeah maybe history but I don\u0027t see why this needs to be an emergency it all it doesn\u0027t need the consensus is the IETF it doesn\u0027t need permanent archive ability I think this would make a fine blog post or a series of blog posts that doesn\u0027t okay so something being found I think is is the importance like I have some working groups where I go back to documents and I have to pull out a draft that\u0027s been expired and you know this goes back over a decade where I have ones that I do that for that\u0027s the fun thing that logs expire they can disappear without notice and in RFC Camp a site can go away these are these are archived so archival value no hats so a few years ago and I fused probably about 2/10 and I that is a canoe group had this exact roadmap or FC that documented so that is published and I don\u0027t think is there a way to know that though there is some value in this my opinion but I don\u0027t know it\u0027s a lot of value alright so if there\u0027s some place where it\u0027s not gonna just disappear like just some random blog post I\u0027ve had blogs disappear questions I\u0027m gonna add one for him do we know whether anyone\u0027s reading it or using it I can\u0027t say using it but if we implement the web analytics on the idea that\u0027s just say individual here I did not read the draft is clickability I mean this is just answering general questions like so it\u0027s all over the map right now French aha fortunately I want to say that when I read this draft I think that it is useful for me to understand the history of how to use these kind of things as a new guys for this area yeah it\u0027s really useful and I personally think about the question of whether it\u0027s to the PRC or the kind of way to publish it I think because I think that maybe this drafter you have talked about or you described about something about how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "use eme and together with the Brisky oh yes the other kind of technology to provide a whole process of the device or the of the users auto provision right so I think these kind of things is not just some guidance it\u0027s just like Roman nation maybe saw applicability document or some kind of thing so I think this makes sense to be a document standard to clarify how to use it a different kind of time technology combined together right I think that is useful so the last question inside is that I\u0027m wondering whether this document has included a part of the the certificated provision for the networked device for exam or whether we to talk about about the revelation with the I Triple E a to the arrow to thought a to talk about they are it\u0027s kind of certificate how would you say I say I need to probation unit yet so I was aiming it at informational I you think from the feedback I\u0027m getting I\u0027m happy to aerate this again as a draft even if it\u0027s not a working group draft and we can figure out where it gets published as it iterates so if you want to help add that information please share and and we\u0027ll get it incorporated and we\u0027ll see how this develops if it develops into you know something more or not maybe gets published a different way but I\u0027ll iterate it in a draft for now the drafts are cheap so a lot of times I\u0027ve seen RFC\u0027s called use cases maybe not overviews yeah that\u0027s not popular though so you expand acne Navy you\u0027re expanding the scope it right you use cases more well I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know I can see the value to having you know here\u0027s the possible ways you can do this where you put it as you say as long as it\u0027s persistent right that\u0027s my worry for me Alexei Melnikov I suggest the Working Girl if there is enough interest adopters as a work item with understanding it might not be published as an arty and just do it as a working your process and then you figure out what to do with it later on whether it\u0027s you know wiki blog post you know RFC or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:00",
    "text": "not you know content so when I\u0027m fine with that because then even the the draft will always be there even if it doesn\u0027t get published so we have that stickiness of that because the archival properties hi I mean Susan you had a perfectly consistent with it being usual individual traffic like what you potentially dock you for like working group work it\u0027s not playing RC even like other groups do it yeah okay Virginia I mean I think it\u0027s for whatever the word enough wants to do so they\u0027re interested yes and if anyone send me feedback I will update it regardless of its status so I\u0027m happy to grow this or let it die based on feedback tears are you ready to have the working group think decide now or you want to do another drafter it doesn\u0027t matter to me I mean I\u0027ll continue to work on it based on feedback but what do you guys think you\u0027re the chairs well I think that the first question would be how many people have read the draft well enough to fill a table to restaurant yeah tomorrow yeah so um I don\u0027t see really a good case for asking whether people want to want to adopt this now so encourage people to read this and perhaps next time or on the mailing list we can decide whether this ought to be a the workman draft that\u0027s discussed in the working group or an individual drugs that is discussed in the working group so either way I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any decision that were that we can make right now all right thank you that\u0027s most of what we have on our agenda except for their way forward and open mic also known as any other business so about this way forward thing the way it looks from here is that we\u0027re discussing a lot of very poorly read probably reviewed drafts that well there\u0027s not a lot of interest and for many of them the people who are might want to implement them are not in the room not in the not in the list and there\u0027s somebody that comes to Acme to write the draft because some other group needs it and the rest of the group doesn\u0027t really engage in Mack he doesn\u0027t come to the meetings and the question is do we really need a working group to do that I mean is this either is there any advantage of having an active working group when what we\u0027re doing here isn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "of interest to the people in the room to the people on the mailing list except for that one or two people coming from another group to do some acting work for their group so the question is do we want to be always be closing this working group or doing one team or do you think that there\u0027s any actual work that the working group is going to do rather than just sitting here reading our email well somebody from another group comes to the mic and tell us what what they need so this really has to go in the mic we could probably put this group on kind of glide path supposing seem like we\u0027ve got a couple of kinds there seems to be reaching a natural ending point I think there\u0027s not there shouldn\u0027t be a real great need for this group to stay open long term unless he needs to make tweaks to acne I think defining you identifier testify challenge types can be done in different groups and extended by the IRS Jews need to find always be closing [Music] Kathleen Moriarty I I think there\u0027s value in at least getting the client pieces forward just to round it out and have acne more full and and presented out externally as more than just for web certificates right so I\u0027m sure that anything that we\u0027ve already accepted should move forward and we done that but we could go into the kind of closing State where we\u0027re not taking any new stuff because as long as we stay open people are going to come and have this new little extension that they want to we\u0027re never gonna we\u0027re gonna be like the old pickax we have some drafts in flight that are adopted we have some drafts that are not yet adopted what we\u0027ve talked about is there any body of work that has not come a draft warm to the working group that we would want to put in the table that would necessitate us continuing the work so I guess I\u0027m asking another evening is everything it\u0027s or all the traps that we would think about kind of advancing they all the tables there\u0027s something else I said hi this is entrenar own from my historical perspective and you mentioned pickax like it took like 18 years to close it if you have something that\u0027s open it\u0027s about PKI it will stay open into the closest so if you\u0027ve got things and you think you\u0027re good to go and close it start on another working group it doesn\u0027t take that much time so we charter do whatever I mean there\u0027s all kinds of ways to do this I think you\u0027re things that me are good if there are things that come along that are like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:01",
    "text": "additional explanations we have SEC dispatched if it\u0027s clearly bad evident the ATS can sponsor or not it\u0027s Aleksey monocle whatever you do just don\u0027t close the meaning list I think you want to keep the men in this town so people can at least ask questions and bring ideas then you can redirect them elsewhere mail is including the pickax one are open forever of course so any other business we\u0027ve got a lot of your life back and we may not see you in Singapore and you do need the blue sheets back if you haven\u0027t signed them do so now "
  }
]