[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "thank you so we will be starting in uh in a minute if the network is kind with us okay so let's see I will share okay right here look how many minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:11",
    "text": "thank you okay you are showing it together so hello everyone we're ready to start um so this is the fans are here so this is the uh the meeting of the lp1 working group um and we're very happy to be here for the first time uh for since a couple of years yeah since a couple of years now and we're very happy to see everyone that is here in the room and also the people that are remote so um thank you for being here and with this uh uh as usual the note 12 applies so you should read of course all the BCPS that are listed here you should be aware of them especially uh things related to uh to APR to uh anti-harassment code of conduct and in all these so please adhere to uh to these rules that are that are written here so we have um a couple of meeting tips for uh for this meeting so the first is uh we we ask you to uh to wear a mask unless you're eating or drinking actively or speaking on the microphone um so we have a a big room here so you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "know if uh it's I think we're pretty good in in that aspect uh yes so we have the laser pointer here that will be uh you know the presenters can be can be using uh and also uh so we have the meat Echo so you can uh you know join the queue and uh you know whenever you don't want to say something just join the queue raise your hand and we'll give you the uh the word for that or you can also type your uh your comments and we will be saying that on the mic right foreign and make sure you of course your audio audio and video is uh are off sorry thank you let's see if it works okay so that doesn't work I think yes so um the agenda is uh uh we need to turn it on yes so the agenda is on the data tracker so you can you can see there the meteco information is here of course it is showed and if you need some technical assistance uh we have the link that is uh also pointed out there so there let me know so about the scribes so we already have uh Yvonne and Sergio that are going to be taking the minutes so thank you both uh but of course if uh please help them in the minute taking you know that's a difficult task so um and it's and it's really important that it's done well so please help our scribes for for that uh so give us just a second because there is something with the slide the network is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "having some issues it keeps falling in videos okay wait for sure okay yes so this is the agenda for today so we we start of course with the with the opening then we're going to have a discussion about the chartering uh that we have been talking about in uh we have been discussing a little bit in in the past uh then we have um a new work to be presented so Chic convergence profile from Sergio and a discussion about IDs that is going to be led by Lauren and so we have about an hour and a half for today's meeting so do you have uh any other work that you would like to to discuss on today's meeting two minutes slowly yes so there is a new item we will include so two minutes from Dominic about the hackathon because there were some really interesting uh work that has been done so we'll be adding this one you can start at the beginning I think it's good to see a couple of words did you send a slide that much in it if you like yes yes sure but you'll have just a few minutes yeah yes yes so the the question was if Dominica so Dominic asked if he needs to upload sites for for this and yes if you can upload a couple of slides yes but it's not like a I mean you can just orally present it as well yes just all right so any other items that you would like to discuss today no because because the key members are going before the end of the meeting and so yes it would make sense we wanted to do that but we will be losing a few members so that's why sorry Eric yeah that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "that's we also wanted to do this yes yes that was a very good proposal but you're perfectly right but uh we need to keep that one okay so uh uh can you switch to the next slide please okay so the working group status things are advancing uh pretty well uh so I think that so in in all working group items we have a serious uh I mean we're always at uh we're always almost uh finalize the work on the on the open working group items and we'll be talking more about the status of NBA at you and sick Fox and there are some working group items that we'll need to discuss you know how things are going to evolve uh uh from here on so uh here the the on the shake shakeover sigfox and the compound deck so we are almost there uh we are only waiting for uh the final touches I think there is the uh the shepherd uh so Anna is The Shepherd of uh the Chic over sick Fox and is to to push the button uh I think that's the only thing that is remaining uh and on the compound deck I'm just waiting for the latest revision to be published with the there was there were some nits uh I think they were fixed in the GitHub version but I just wait for them to be published as a in the data tracker and it's it's good for me so I'll push the button and it will be sent off to the LSG so yes Sergio uh yes I will check the the component draft I think is ready the latest version with all the corrections so maybe we can check that or else I would publish a new version after the meeting I I don't think it was on the data tracker with you know there were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "some needs it's really minor stuff but I don't think it was in the data tracker they were not fixed in a data tracker yeah I I think they are but I will check it then yes okay please double check and it's good for me I'll push the button later just just right after yes and Anna I'm not sure if you're hearing me about the the yes so Anna is in the queue if you can say if if she covers see foxy is good for you and if you're ready to push the button hello yes for me we are waiting for the end of the last call so I can press the water when when you tell me well let's press the button then okay okay push push the button okay okay as a Shepherd needs to push the button if the button is active for you if you tell us you're ready we can just press it okay okay so so that's that's good that's that's excellent now on the document advancement so we have the young data model so the work uh has it's it's done right right now it's in the editor's queue and I think that was a huge amount of work and uh with Pascal we would like to thank everyone that has been working very actively the whole working group and Laurent Anna for for really uh taking the pain and taking the like the the effort to to making sure that we have this good young data model that was you know we were waiting for that document and so thank you both uh uh it's really an amazing work so we're just waiting for the number I don't think we have the number yet of the the RFC but it's coming so excellent work there uh nbiut uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "mostly so it's also very well Advanced the shakeover nbiut so there are the the exchanges with the uh uh of course the liaison with the 3gpp that is currently uh again being uh being discussed but the work is uh done there has been a lot of reviews from the isg that that went really well uh and uh I think there is only one discus that's going to be cleared so uh it's good to go and again amazing work there from from the authors uh yes Pascal wants to say something yeah I'm sorry for the interrupt I just want to say that I've never seen the document going so smoothly through the asgq so don't ask me but I think it means it's an excellent document and lyric if you want to chime in but no I don't think there is even a discuss I mean you think it's just gonna fly and and enough for the whole yes there were a lot of exchanges a lot of work by Anna and the ASG very very yeah regarding the NBA iot Pascal and myself and Dominic was there as well at the 3gpp liaison meeting on Tuesday lunch the they were really welcoming for the work so if Enterprise wants to continue their work and it becomes part of 3gpp they are wide open to submit a if you're an SID and work ID but of course it's not the ITF to do it right so if you really want to get the work done there into the 3gpp standards the door is open now regarding the document itself um it will be reviewed by 3gpp in next week we may expect maybe a review the week after so I would wait until end of November to reassess last discuss about how we do the informative part versus the normative part so don't touch"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "now put in sleep mode for two with two three weeks thank you very much thanks Eric for for that clarification so again uh a really amazing work I think it's um uh I mean we're very happy with how things are are moving um so we discussed the compound deck in the shake of our sigfox so they're going to be submitted in the in the in the next week we could shoot so there is the document of the oam and the question is uh of course if there is still interest in continuing that work uh of the current authors if there are going to be new new people that can join the the work right so that that's an open question Dominic maybe can tell us a word about this Dominic you're supposed to press the button to ask for the queue but that's okay so it doesn't really matter um as far as I'm concerned uh I'm interested in continuing this work and I may have even more time on my hands in a few months okay that's perfect Dominic we're very happy to hear that yes and I think it's uh it's it's an important document and uh we're all I think Lauren anyone speaking for them are still interested in that topic since they are implementing it so I think we're good okay so that's good so everything is still alive and uh um and we'll have advancement okay so uh Pascal you can say a couple of words on architecture so the architecture has progressed with regard to the description of how Chic works on any type of connectivity meaning that we recognize that there is a session between a device and an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "application core and that session was implicit in the case of classical lp1 networks so all the provinces were well known there was no really negotiation but we figure that on more diverse type of networks then there will be a need for something more and so the architecture is preparing for that and the Reach Out frame will prepare for that as well um as we take that path we will have to work on how we identify the session what what kind of data is maintained together with the session so that's also part of the discussions that we hope we will have today and that we have started in an informal meeting between between the usual to authors but basically that will be the course subject of the end of this meeting today Bob Moskowitz I made a comment on this draft back when I think this this version came out that the security section is incomplete it only has security security above transport it does not have security below transport I.E ESP ipsec um it's not in there at all and the implications when security is below transport and what you do for for within that security envelope compression the higher levels particularly if you're running a tunnel and the rest of that that is not in the architecture and should be added to the architecture sure at the same time that we ex we discover the fact that we are not working on a closed link like loja or sigfox and we go over full then we need to to look at all this before that it was the layer 2 security it was just a direct layer of two connectivity so again it was all implicit and and now we have to make it explicit and we have to discuss it so that's part of the of the Chic over full re-chartering discussion and the architecture will cover that okay a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "health will be welcome that's right I I just signed myself up something else yeah well congratulations we have five fingers you only subscribed to four right now okay so uh thank you thank you thank you Bob uh and we will have a new work presented today or some convergence so uh this is where we will be entering the discussion about the rechartering so uh Pascal you can lead the discussion we'll try to have it like we have a 15 minutes I think to to assign this one so we we already had started that Richard discussion uh last day ATF and the number of interim and we are kind of accumulating the list of things we would wish to work on and that list that you see on this slide is becoming serious and at the same time we kind of rapidly consume the list of documents that we are working on because they are rapidly passing to the isg we've seen nbiot we've seen the data model which are pretty much through and coming up are the seek Fox document and the compound act which are pretty much done for this working group as well so I think a chair that it's really time that we work on this free chart ring and we start proposing text to to the ad if you don't mind the rig and the the the subjects that are uh that are listed here are basically you know taking the the the feel of the group whether we want to work on those items so these are the items that we have kind of uh found we could be working on first one is so please feel free to come to the mic and say oh we can't work on this or yes I would like to work on that or just raise sales maybe we can do some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "sure for instance if people are interested in subjects if you can rapidly go through for instance so first thing is as you know we are chartered for four Technologies um one of them is actually being processed a different group because uh careless work is done at six low on 15 4. um and the other Technologies we have done at home now we discovered a lot of new fools there is PPP we tried to to push the work on PPP at the interior but the skills and interests were not there so probably would like to to take it back here um there is there is interest in generic AP the tunnels there is interest on a new Aviation radio technology called nav link and and we have effectively hands with a lot of fingers on them ready to start working on this so that's the first shutter item any comment on Chico is it something that seems to raise interest in this in this group yes so and Carlos on the mic is I do have uh interest in and I I support the the topics I see that we are expanding the usage of chic Beyond lp1 and that's clear from the from the list that we see here and the fact that we are having to discuss sometimes with interiors and some topics have been discussed in six law so as much as I support the the work of these topics I wonder if this recharging should also consider changing the name of the group or the scope so that it's clear that it's not focusing only on lp1 or if if what what is to do because um Chic is definitely a generic technology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "that can be applied over multiple areas it was created with the purpose of lp1 but if we rename it like the group to be called check really if anything else I don't know um yeah I mean what you propose one callous is indeed logical and sensible the only thing if I remember correctly another working group wanted to change its name as well that was no way right it's simply a tooling system in data tracker that makes things complex so I can ask again but in it is normal lp1 so we should create the sheet Group which is kind of cool as well but that would be neat yes so second item is is fake fragment so this one does not really take re-chartering it's about providing a new method within chic for handling fragments loss and basically instead of doing an arc or Knack type of arq Technology we would use for their correction instead meaning that we sent more bits than we need to in case some of them are lost so that's that item we can take within the current Charter not instead of or but in addition to oh yeah you may still have arq with SEC yes it's just a nuance okay because you mean they could be both active at the same time that's what you have in mind yeah okay so harq that's what hrq means I breed they are Q that's when fake energy works together so we need to rephrase this as being haq fragments um then Chic header so we have Bob has that document at interior whereby we will be asking for a new um protocol type a new ether type and probably a new Portman port number as well for UDP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "unless I'm wrong I'll just make a quick report of that we did get uh um the the int area um chair and interior A.D interesting that we had the same ad uh has agreed to expand beyond that they accepted my my proposal for a protocol number for awesome ether type and for a uh of UDP Port udb Port is actually transport area and uh the 80 over there David black says that it's fairly straightforward in the wording he doesn't see that and if we word it properly they'll just go through straight through for The Ether type we are the ram lats there is a new draft coming out for how to interact between ITF and IEEE and we will be the ones who will figure out whether it's just so that they got that right or it needs more work so for those who have been working with me who want it as an ether type I don't want it as an ether type but I'm willing to do the work for that we're going to be the lab rats for that um liaison between ietf and IEEE yes and we thank donix East Lake was proposed to help us on that and writing this document and a number of us are participating to the IEEE ITF coordination meeting and so we'll raise that question at the coordination meeting as well so we need to talk to Russell I think he's already aware that we probably need to just ping him to say Hey you would like this topic at the next IEEE coordination meeting um there comes as a natural extension to that work I mean having a protocol type is good we did a protocol either to go with it and we probably need to figure if this is always seen as nepalier protocol or if there are cases for making it a IPv6 extension header as well I was kind of the only one on the mailing list trying to say hey we might need it as an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "um it might be that some more people get to to that thinking that maybe we also need a next header in which case it's kind of straightforward it's just that there are two Registries there is the V4 and the V6 registries okay um so for uh to have a protocol number of the advantage is that it can work on ipv4 and IPv6 if we have an extension either it will work only on IPv6 but if now we have a port number so I think we don't have any more problem of interpretability between these two version FIP and we can go on extension for IPv6 and CIP before we'll use UDP and Port which so we'll continue on the mailing list but there seems to be growing interest in asking that the the protocol type is also written as a next header in the IPv6 registry uh adding uh Chic in an extension header raise a lot of negative comments on the int area of mailing lists they were extremely against um extension headers for this they are very much for the protocol number but you'd have to go back in the archive to see all the points they raised up against extensions header and it would have to be somebody here who knows an awful lot more than me about this area to try to to bring it up again in interior it's irrigating again so we can discuss here right I have no problem with it but it's interior draft but it will be adopted shortly yeah right as soon as Bob will add the text for the UDP port and data type even a couple of link it will mostly be adopted in Terraria so please comment on this interior"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "yeah we we need to figure out if we want it inside before we bother anybody I guess but if we could do a quick round on the mailing list just to figure whether I want it if we want it we need to discuss with interior maybe they say yes they say no but we don't even know if we want it before we buy our Interior right I need the use cases for those in that draft I'll need what is the use case for is an ether type what is the use case for for UDP Port that is the second fly otherwise okay so it makes full sense so the the discussion for recharing for us is whether it's a protocol header or a extension header we still need to range no no the format of high there's not the value of the protocol type if UDP has a header with eight bytes right what header do we need for shake to carry our session we we we are defining a new session for lp1 yes we need to rethink but basically having a protocol type is not enough unless you have zero byte to carry in your protocol header but we probably want to carry something like a session ID and stuff that's what that's what that's what this thing is right this is not the interior work this is a reach out to work for us to figure out what our sessions are how we identify them what needs to be carried on The Wire when the session is not implicit maybe I'm being naive but the uh the Chic header that I might carry over um was Sheikh being the protocol number will quite depend on the particular use case whether that header basically doesn't really even exist I've just said this that the rule tells you what it is or I have to have some sort of compressed content so I don't think that there's any work to do around that you already have the basic concept and it is basically going to be on a a usage case basis just as you already have in seek do you have any hair depends on what the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "what the I mean the most may be here is the ID number and that's it could be just just just one but anyway because that's the that's getting we need to discuss because the people that are remote if you can announce who is speaking in and raise the hand and there was also Stewart that wanted to to interject at some point okay so I I but it's thanks to it yes Stuart I was still interested in in speaking to the mic because a couple of times and I don't want to interrupt people that are speaking okay sorry still um so yeah I mean the bottom line is we are identifying the concept of the session right now uh we call it the Chic instance we're identifying the kind of information that is stored in that session and synchronize agreed upon between the two parties the endpoints and depending on the case effectively as Bob is saying it's more or less implicit what we would Define probably is the list of things that in the worst case must be passed and how you pass only what you need to pass depending on the use case boiling down to zero if you need nothing and probably the right way of saying that of other way here is sick again right it's the rest Simplicity is compressed but it's the same header which can be fully compressed so that's how I figure out um OEM is we have started the work that was interest we saw that the student trust but we don't have a charter item for it so it's kind of an obvious Charter attempt for us session setup that one is a big one as soon as we are not anymore in a completely controlled loja environments or type a stick facts environment where we program both ends manually Etc then there is a need for a device and an application to agree on a set of rules make sure that they download the same set of rows that it is protected against impersonation or any episodes of attacks the rules need to be downloaded"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "installed instantiated meaning if there is your IP in it the IP is probably not in the rule you have to instantiate it inside the rule when you install it raw Etc yes and uh so I I just wanted to to add a point here throughout the the lifetime of the different drafts that became rfcs we got a lot oftentimes to get reviews from the iesg and they were asking okay how are what about you know setting up these rules how are you going to like all this that is put here about the session setup rule Discovery and all that in the security of it we had that questions in the past like people from the SG were asking how are you going to do that in a generic setup and we until now I was like okay well we configure it's a problem for later right now we have solved that like we have the shake the foundation and I think it's really the time to you know we have the the the the background the knowledge the foundation to be actually able to address these specific questions right now right I think before that it would have been premature it would have been trying to solve it uh sorry uh yes and uh and about the the Yang the optimizations for for core conf so Luhan is going to be talking also about this but that's that's really important like core confidence uh advancing really well at um at the core working group and uh the way both are going to be uh working together that's also an important Point how do we have the most efficient and the most uh uh uh uh the most way of using core conf over uh uh over Shake um so I'm giving the word to Lauren who he was next in the waiting line and then to Bob who who so hold on please yes security is very important and here we we have different bullets that the the trade security maybe it will be good to have a bullet that says secure the architecture securing the artificial of chic or something to be very explicit well we don't need to reach out for that I mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "that's missing in our existing architecture and then Bob mentioned it so we we love we we need to beef up the security section of the architecture but we don't need to reach out to for that I guess but yes I mean it's an obvious I mean nothing would pass without it and certainly um with regard to the negotiation of the street group um um functions for the rule between parties I'll point out that Daniel Miguel already has a draft for uh for running over Ike for how to compress ESP so that is a good starting point taking Daniel's uh um draft and my highly biased opinion is that we only want to do this over a peer-to-peer control a secure control Channel not a client server which pretty much limits us to Ike and hip as the only two peer-to-peer secure control channels here I have had comments that maybe TLS kind of can be tricked into this uh thus maybe dtls but it is problematic unless you really know who's so when we get into this draft there's going to be the basic question is it only a peer-to-peer a control Channel or can it be also client server control Channel and that's one that we're going to have to look into and also talk to other security people to answer that question so I guess it's very clear that we need a work item on that because it's not just a few words on the architecture which will make that work yes actually so I I um that's actually a very very good point Bob and the point here is also for example coreconf it's working in a client server way and typically is the same thing uh so typically you can have if you have a peer-to-peer relation you can have both peers to have both the server and the client uh so they can have this like peering uh um yeah to be like peer-to-peer yeah you got to play"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "games that both are are our servers for this whereas I can hear that's implicit in their design okay well probably maybe we will we'll need to define the use cases and see how things are moved because maybe there will be several solutions to that right so we'll need to to really clear out how how things work in the working group exactly and and that's Anita Yeah so basically is there an obvious no no to any of the elements of this list uh or you know anything you want to mention because if we don't discuss more basically the chairs will go with this list and try to to write some Charter so if you have any command to help us do that or if you want us to take off some some subjects or whatever before we start drafting any comment is welcome now and on the mailing list obviously yes thank you yes for the young mother I think it's not only optimization but it's extension to to the actual young model to to apply it to different environment on different management so it's more about optimization we'll ask you to but we will try to to put all these items in the in the in the recharging proposal right okay so I don't I don't see anyone expressing negative feelings about any of these points so this is what we're going to do it's going to be so true though so yes thank you so thank you for for the discussion uh and for living in Pascal and uh Sergio is next and we are almost on time that's good if I say next you say next slide yes your screen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "doesn't work yes so well hello I'm Sergio Aguilar from UPC I'm going to present the the update on the work that I've been we've been working on on the check convergence profile this is an update from previous entry and meeting presentation uh we did the individual submission of the of the draft we added motivation and use cases and well we also had the the comparison between Chicago one and Chicora sigfox opening aquanero mode in this case uh the comparison was already discussed in the in the interim presentation but we added to the to the draft next slide please I go into that to the motivation uh well we see that iot applications normally I are tired to to the lp1 technology they choose this lp1 lp1 technology constraints are influence the design of the iot application itself does therefore when you try to migrate from one lp1 technology to another uh you probably need to redesign a complete solution from a device code to to backend code so from our point of view the lp1 should be as an L2 layer should be transparent to the application as it is in the IAP domain next slide uh what we see in currency implementation we see that we have a single uh compression the compression sub layer but we see that we have multiple cheek fragmentation uh reassembly sub layers actually we have one draft pair lp1 technology but once you analyze the different modes there are actually really similar fermentation modes therefore we we think that to reduce code complexity and maintenance will be better to have a single convergent cheek fragmentation and reassembly Supply uh here we see Korean architecture that we have in this case we have multiple implementation of the cheek fermentation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "supplier it's better technology that that is being used in in this case well you can actually send chick fragments in different lp1 Technologies uh but you are not able well check packets I'm sorry between different lp1 Technologies but you need to have the different codes to to be able to to manage them in in the case we have a single cheek fermentation reassemblyism layer we will have we call it Chic overall profile that in this case will be the same regardless or of of the lp1 technology in this case you can actually receive cheek fragments through different networks and actually reassemble the packet at the at the check reassembly layer true the use cases that we have identified are for multi-radio devices devices that Implement more than one lp1 radio we also saw multi-network applications in this case our applications that are used over several uh LP or more than one lp1 technology uh from there we also see a use case that this can be a generic fragmentation reassembly profile if you want to test it over a new technology like to have a an out of the box fragmentation reassembly mode oh yeah we also see use cases in network redundancy where you can use another lp1 Network as backup you can send the same fragment or different cheek fragments through different networks to increase the probability of success for example you can also increase the device to recycle as the device has more networks to send you can use another network instead of the one that you are waiting for the duty cycle time and you can also check coverage of one network sending messages in one network receiving the app in other networks or you're able to see if you have coverage of of any lp1 network that that you have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "uh here we we propose to to simplify the access to the rules like this uh to converge all the devices IDs into a single chick ID in this case um we have different IDs each one from lp1 different devices each from different lp1 Technologies so the idea is to have a single one once you have this single ID you can go to the rules to to see what are the rules of of that of that device we we said that this can be done through a table that actually Maps the networks devices ID to the chick ID and then we can go on and find the rules this table can be actually extended to have IP addresses IP ports to identify the packets that are also arriving from from the internet approaches uh in this case the the comparison that we did about opening fragmentation we actually evaluated that Chico where Laura one draft with well a standard with the chick over the sigfox option two both in these cases have two by check fragment headers uh they have both the same tile size of 10 byte and they use um they use the no D tag in this case and the differences are most related in the window size and the amount of tiles that you can carry in each window foreign therefore we see that that since there is a lot of similarities uh we can actually converge both profiles with a rule ID of 8 Bits for example and in this case we chose to have more windows than more tiles per window since we can have more opportunities to to actually send the ACT to the device now with the compound nag you can actually send and a larger Arc if needed therefore you can have for example if before you have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "larger window now you can have the same amount of information in the in the compound neck as as before next and finally well we for for this draft we plan to to do a new open source project in this case we call it chigduino the idea is to implement chick over for Arduino we think that this can help actually the adoption of chick in a larger extent uh with a single code code base in this case this this convergent profile you can only have to manage as a one code and this can simplify applications that want to migrate between LP ones for multi-network applications for example you have a application already well you are building the application for for an lp1 you're using cheek then you can migrate the application to another P1 uh let's say You by Chain not changing the application code but by changing the network connector at the end that is between the cheek and the network but you will have the same code this is this allows also fragments to be sent between multiple Networks and well in this case the proposition is to build the device code not exactly the server code and well one proposition is that maybe we can use opengica server to actually test uh also interoperability um yes so run sorry yes thank you for this initiative it's very interesting to to have different implementation of chic for interoperability but I was wondering more for very constrained devices if we need really to do compression decompress compression on the device and not manipulate directly the sheet rules which makes that the code will be lighter you just have to generate things for example Co-op can be done in in shoe line of code because you just send the residues and so this way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "you can have something very Compact and that's why for example we we aim to get the AUM because of course it's not not just sending information but also to make the device part of the internet and for example if you can receive icmp messages from the internet telling that your server is not available then the device can react and go sleeping longer just to preserve the battery because nobody is listening to his message so here we have a very nice scenario where we have very little code on on the device and we have a device that from outside has an IP address and react from internet informations Okay so thanks Lauren next slide I want to get you as well let me put myself on the flashlight well I will just ask a question yeah just to be frank and honest um the two foods that you have may not both survive in the long run on the other hand we are chartering for Chicago and Foo could be faster links like you know IP PPP whatever map links and so that's where I see the huge value of your work coming in and so do you consider looking at faster links and making proposal for a generic you know for first of all better food or whatever Yes actually the idea of having the out of the box uh cheek profile is to to enable that that kind of interoperability that you can actually test it over any kind of of network and this way you have like already a a profile that has been tested actually that we've been working on it uh since a while both Laura one and six folks now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "that the conversion of both it's already been tested in a sense so yeah I think that this this profile can help actually um help over other other radio Technologies yes you should explain how to tune some parameters based on whatever differs with this technology right like the speed if the yeah there is faster what should you do if your MTU is a lot bigger what should you do there has to be an adaptation in in between the fragmentation layer and the actual Network that's been sent I added a section in the draft that is called downlink considerations that that's where I see that we have to take that the actual considerations of each technology for example is different to send uh well it's really similar in order one and six folks let's say you have to send first the message to receive a down link but maybe in other technology you can receive the downlink directly so this sense there is specific things of each technology but I think that these drafts can help use the same fragmentation but with singularities per technology if we are successful with many foods we can't have as many implementations right yes Bob are there some aggressive examples of those full Technologies consider 802.16 h.11ah but long range and high capacity usage so the frames are not so small but there's just potentially so much traffic that the the the driver for Chic is to reduce collisions because of the the capacity usage so that would be the example of the uh of the the foo use case um for for that consideration in fact that's exactly what I'm working on I I will I would like to add that um uh we I started with opling aquanerver mode but we can do the same for no no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "whack and have a single profile for Nowak and the same for like always in well it's more using down link but we can have a the three different modes also um just um a a short comment so I like very much your work um actually in the beginning of the working group we were asking ourselves can we have some what we were calling that a minimal profile at the time I think uh where we were saying can we have like the same minimal rules that can be the same in moral and sick fast just to at least have like a very basic stuff and and maybe have more advanced in each draft and at that time I think that we were not I mean we didn't know how things will go so both Technologies said no we don't want that um and uh right now you're saying okay maybe we can find some middle ground right so I find that interesting I found also what uh Pascal is saying very interesting is to say okay how would this work enter in this bigger framework of chic over food where you can maybe have at some point this minimal Prof I I'm calling it the minimal profile if you want to carry the convergence profile like to say okay well I have this uh uh a set of of rules which are like Universal and I can at least bootstrap my communication over that right so I feel that your work gets in the in that in that direction right uh the points I'm I'm not sure is how it's going to be working because there is already the Laura one profile out there there is going to be the the sick Fox profile and if I understand correctly there are diff they're a little bit different from the things you are proposing here I mean it's normal that they're different so I'll need I mean we'll need to figure out so today you have like a lower one device and you will know the shake profile to that device just because it's lower one and you know okay it's RFC 19911 right so then we'll need to distinguish maybe okay there is the RFC 9011 and there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "maybe this convergence profile so there is this thing of how would that work and and how you apply your work to to the Chic over Foo right so I think maybe during the rechargering we'll need you will need to look at your draft through that angle right okay how does it enter in the new Charter items and to see what will be the require I mean does it fit there what what's the requirement on that convergence profile there so I'm I don't have an answer to that I find your work super interesting and I think that there is a big potential in that in that aspect right but we will need to to look exactly you know how how will how it will evolve from there okay very interesting yes do you plan or thought to handle mobility in this scenario or it's only a fix since since we can send fragments through any network uh yes I think that Mobility is a total option yes but more for example if you go from a satellite Network and you arrive to a new area where you have a lower coverage so it's more in the way you manage the identity in your in your system yet since uh well that's uh where I have seen it like the implementation how the single point where all the let's say the the posts from all networks Lord I want let's say Seek Fox satellite are coming to your server uh you have to have a device ID there that with a single device ID you are able to come to know which rules you go and then you will be able to let's say identify that packet at that session the instance of that packet or that fragment I will say so you will be able to to complete the the packet the cheap packet I don't know if I made myself clear so yeah the idea actually is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "you can send a fragment through any network so if you are heading to a place that now you have coverage of another Network you can just change and continue sending the same fragments to this other network that's like the objective also here okay thank you foreign just one question on what you said probably a more interesting or applicable thing would be if you have both Technologies and two technologies or some kind of network coding so you can send the same fragment on two networks Technologies and you know because you're having the same parameters you don't care which one goes through right but I think we need to look at your draft as well from the point of view of this session establishment thing right so yes it's good thing about 401 it's good thing about sick Fox let's keep that in mind but also let's look at through the glass itself okay I have this session establishment what do I need to have in this convergence profile perfect thank you very much thank you yes so maybe we can give the word to Dominic to have a two or two minutes about the the hackathon and then uh foreign it should be very fast let me just check so we'll have just a minute uh a couple of minutes to how you can share your screen oh yeah okay I mean you can oh no it is approved anyways I put them in there okay okay if you want to share and there you go that's the new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "otherwise it will be available in a second okay so the screen share so yes it's coming up yes yes here you can see our smiling faces from the hackathon and Saturday and Sunday the names are listed uh Martin is not on the picture she was at the other tablet right at that time um so what we did is uh Yvonne and Lohan worked mostly then worked on cleaning up the open cheek GitHub repo emerging branches cleaning up Etc we had the Contour over there developing a clean slate implementation using micro passion if you remember we originally said we would use micro python for embedded devices and then diverge to full python so now we have another new implementation in micro python I worked on the documentation we had Sergio working on the designing the connector between open check and sick Fox network sir and we did interrupt testing with Martin and the riot gang and so we were successful in exchanging a few compressed packets in both directions UDP IPv6 compressed between open check on one side and right slip check on the other side so not everything works Etc but that's a good start and we also exchanged now we worked on but did not complete that but working on the interrupt between the micro sheet and the open check implementations and yeah what what we learned is uh from the Clinton implementation content came up with lots of good questions uh you know the way we describe things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "in the RC the design entrances we've made in the past and we could reconsider implementation recommendations Etc other ways of doing the same thing with the same toolbox but organized in a bit different way and that's what content published his ideas in a draft yesterday night we don't we're not on the agenda to discuss that today but let me come up in an intro meeting in the future thank you thank you very much Dominic and and we'd like also to to to to underline that it's really amazing all the work that everyone is doing at the hackathon so there has been a hackathon on Chic for since I don't know how many years I think for Five Years on every hackathon and and that's really an amazing thing to have like the running code and right now we see all these implementations coming so it's really an amazing work so we'd like to really really thank the all participants in the hackathon it's really amazing and thank you for for organizing it and with with Laurent for taking care of that so it's really great so we we actually consciously let this discussion uh fly a little bit longer than uh initially in the agenda because we thought that the discussion on the convergence was really really good and and constructive uh we still have half an hour on the architecture proposal it doesn't work no also right and uh so there we go it's a bit less than we thought but you have one alpha or two okay so I I don't know I don't think I will have Alpha network but we we can have discussion on that because also I will summarize what we say yesterday in a side meeting like if you want in the same we think about Sheikh and what has been done and all the good question you are we were we got when we published The Young data model and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "specially about security so we have to merge all these things into the architecture document so I just remind you here what is the current architecture what we are uh go where we are going with Chic so we have in in red here the young data model that are developed right now and these two young data model are just following what is defined in the two rfcs that Define rules and identifier for Chic so RFC 8724 and a RFC 8824 so IPv6 UDP and and Co-op and can you go back to I thought you were um on this one and of course we can also we are now planning to extend augment this model for aom and Company so here it's in red it's the Intel part so it means that different uh Chic element can exchange this information and from that you have your local representation of the Chic rules but are optimized for your environment so here we let people to implement Chic as they want we just focus on the interoperability and this Enterprise if we go to some constraint Network should use kokov because here we have a compact way to represent the information we we want to exchange so from that we add good question when we about the young modern security so we had good question during the the review of the document so next slides please and one other question was how to protect element of the rule to avoid that someone can modify some some element in the root Rule and it's not uh it was not allowed to do that so the first reflection we we had is that in our views and maybe we are wrong we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "have we are not full Specialists of of young is that currently you have some protections that are given in young to access to a specific field so here for example we have an abstract representation of the of the rule so each field will have a specific ID in young which will be on URL or if we are going to go conf it will be a number so all these ID will have the same all these columns we have the same ID which has some ID or the same number and so what we can do right now in protecting even in writing in a model that we can say that a column is right only or read and write or with the viewer model I think it's cacm we can add to this list some property and say this guy can modify this line and this guy is not a lot but when we look at what we want to do with Chic it's with something more precise because for example we can have a can imagine an attack where someone take control of the device and send a management request to the core and say change this parameter for example change my destination address because this way I will do a DDOS on the specific site so here maybe or maybe not it depends of the context we can allow the device to change the destination address same thing the device can change its own address and maybe take the address on another element so we have to to protect that and to do this protection is not something that is in columns but we need to have access to one field and say for example if we want to change the source"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "address right it means that we need that the id1 is Source address and this element is only write only on cannot be modified by the device so it means that here we have to get an effort to improve augment the access control that we have already in young maybe we are wrong but if the case then you can contact us to to say so that's the first point so the next Point next slide please so here is resume what I say so first thing is that we but we saw that it's not enough we have to say that a device can only manipulate its own information and cannot change the information of other devices in a car so this can be done for example with it must be explicit in what we wrote it means that we don't have to send IDs on the link but if a device sends something it's for its own representation and not for the rest of the model and then we have the thing I say about the protection of fields specific fields and not columns yep so um so just just one one point here and I think that's that was a very interesting um let's say Discovery uh the point here is that we can have the we want to have basically the same level of security as if the device is running the full IP stack natively so if someone goes and compromises the device this is the only thing that gets compromised so that that's that's the idea right and the point is that so what lahoe is saying is right now we are talking about uh having more dynamicity you know having the session setup updating the rules and all that which is really necessary for to get the full power of the of the shake technology but the point is that if the device gets"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "compromised you could imagine that the device can push some rules to the uh to the core Network to the application and these rules can actually match for example any packet that's coming from the internet so you can it can divert let's say all the the information that could come to the core Network and it can get all that information by just modifying its own rules right and then that that's a problem so that's something that we don't want to to to allow and this is something that we'll need to describe like the the types of threads that uh uh that can that can arise so we need to Define that and we need to add this uh um uh we need to add the mechanisms to be able to con to to to counter this type of attacks right so that's what uh what what's really important here and uh uh uh in I mean went in in a lot of details right but it was really a uh an important point to say we need to to to work on this one right so yes that is uh something that we started discussing at this uh little meeting the bottom line is we have isolated we have understood clarified that Sheikh operates between two devices and there is a form of session that happens between those two devices and during this discussion let's in my view appeared is that you need to identify the session before you start applying the rules because that's the session which will tell you which rules there are if you do it in the wrong order a new match based on some rules you have and then you think oh that must be the session then you might have this sort of attack coming in if you identify the session say for five Topo which basically says this Source this destination packet coming from the internet to the compressor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "will match this session then only packets to that destination which match these are called is this filter will be passed through the the rules meaning that there is no way through check to intercept the whole internet to your point okay so so we the architecture is missing text on how you identify the session we are kind of clear for the most peace when the packet arrives in the compressed form but when the packets arrives from the internet to the compressor we need to be very specific that first you must isolate the session say from the five Topo and what can whatever filter and then once you have isolated the session then you're within the small world of the target device that's when you look at these rules okay yes so something that is very important because for the moment if we don't do that for example we can use the floor label as a way to select different devices that will share the same IPv6 address and we don't want that we want to keep what is used on on the internet so we don't want to to add new feature but very be very close to the IP model so the the other element is but it's more something that has to describe in the architecture architecture document is how we install risk management between two devices so ever to get all the rules to modify partially in a rule on in both the buff directions so we have different scenario for example a device arrive and ask for its rules or ask for certain parameters on the rule or push the rule in the core and set up some parameters in in the core so we have all the these things so how we do that so it can be of course as I say in the constraint where you have a constraint link it can be a core conf so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "it means that we have uh c bar and and Co-op so how we run these instances do we have to encrypt or to have a security layer all the time so that's another question for example if you use a Laura one maybe it's you know the cryptography called things offered by Lauren are enough and then since we are using a score um sorry Co-op or score tdtls and all that stuff of course since we are compression guy then we can also Define compression rules for this management and we have to specify it to have something uh very compact next point please so here is the last one so it's start from a discussion with uh what colors pushing some interim meetings and we add a lot of the description on that and now I think the model is a little bit more clear and Sergio add or maybe new arrowsing in in this but in fact when we we are based at the beginning of the group on lp1 architecture it means that we have a start apology on this was quite easy to to manipulate because we have a central point that was the core of the application and talk with a lot of devices so what we need to identify was only the devices but if we move to something more generic so like a mesh Network then you can have the hosts that talk to other hosts using Chic and it means that we have two two new things the thing is that you can have several core but we have also some dependency and we have a kind of circle dependency as it is shown on this uh graphic because for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "example if you say a is a device and B is a core then C will have problem because c will be act as a device or a core for the other one so we cannot say in a mesh Network that some elements are core on some elements are devices but it depends really of the the context or what you you call the the session of instance so here we represent that in this schema so you you have of course this circle this dependencies but we have also some elements that can be both core and device at the same time regarding the rule so the only constraint we we haven't has been published in events drafts is that we need to if we have this case with the two red arrows then we cannot share the same rule ID on both sessions so now but it's a little bit more clear for for us so we have to implement that in the architecture document and Define this notion of session or instance that will ever be static it means that it depends only on information on the rules or can be dynamic and then we will have to develop a protocol for our tier a tie breaker to find with with the device with the core with some problem is that for example if you look at the MAC address for some time not be something enough because you need to have a server or client and the role doesn't depend on the Mac address so here we have to be very very careful for doing that and we have to to look at solution in the architecture document so the exact language in the architecture document at this point is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "that shake defines a session so that's the lowercase session it's just a word meaning that there is this relationship between two nodes and we give it a name we call it the Chic instance that's why you see instances in that slide so that's the name we give to to that session between a device and an application and we say that there are a number of cases that we list where the session identification is implicit and the parameters are implicit as well and know how and six blocks no it's clearly the case there is no session negotiation there is never a need to say which session between you and me there is only one uh and uh which is the role there is anyone set Etc everything is pre-programmed coded so there is no negotiation at all and no social notification apart from you know the Gateway looks at which Laura device it comes from or something and that gives him a session um for a Bluetooth low energy where you have a central node and peripheral node then same thing I mean the central node is the server and and that's it so there are a lot of cases like this why it's implicit when we start a transport like a PPP connection we also say hey the guy who starts the PPP connection is the device so it's also implicit the other things which might not be implicit that the need for this header but at least the architecture say there are cases why it's implicit and here is what it's going to be and then there are cases like the mesh where it cannot be implicit there are tons of reasons why it could be either one and from multiple instances it could be not the same like represented in red here in this case effectively there is a need of a secure negotiation protocol to make sure both parties agree on what is what and we in the architecture we don't go further than that we don't say what that negotiation could be or anything we leave it to the further work at the reach out after reach out there if we reach out there for that and and I will also add that the work done as a six"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "load to see how we can put 6 low and seek together will be a very variable input for for this document any question before I guess we release everybody a little bit earlier any aob discussion any discussion on this uh on last presentation well that's good for the trains for those who are waiting for the trends then and I know a few of them which will scramble so we thank you for staying uh to the last minute uh at this ATF and we'll organize very soon the next round of intro meeting we start producing text on the recharge ring we'll see what we can write right away on the architecture not match but because we need those those work items to progress before the architecture can reflect the work of decisions but um yes let's let's move on and you'll see probably in three weeks or four weeks an interim harness yes and we would like to thank the the scribes and for everyone that has taken minutes for all the fruitful discussions and uh for you being here and uh hopefully we'll see you in a couple of week of months again at the next ITF and in the meantime we'll have interims so see you in the interims and uh thank you again and the meeting isn't drawn oh if you wish foreign to the London Bridge train station we can always share a taxi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:13",
    "text": "foreign"
  }
]
