[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "all the video Ms um of people pretty bored and waiting for other people to join and get started right yep I'm sorry I got the same face so could have declared it you know a Halloween themed tools call meeting and everybody had to show up and costume but we didn't uh we can try just s a warning and please do it when I'm at home not in the hotel right so that would be easier for me people are still joining at a fairly rapid rate so we will wait a moment or two more before we get started started h mark good to see you all all right the join rate has slowed as other people join um we can help encourage them to share video um we we like to have this particular meeting be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "as close to meeting around the table and having an interactive conversation as possible remember that the session is being recorded it will appear on YouTube later um to improve your comments accordingly we have the agenda in the form of the outline of the notes if everybody um if is not looking at the notes page already it is a good idea to have it available as we're going through the meeting to be added as we're going along that are important it's a meeting where you have to watch multiple windows so we'll go ahead and get started if anybody has any last minute agenda bashes now it would be a good time to raise them all right so um Dave please just go ahead and talk uh this is an around the table thing there aren't going to be so many people that we need to have a managed queue okay sure uh I don't know if my mail got out but in response to the agenda being posted on tools discussed I'd asked if I could take a couple minutes and talk about the rst to uh XML conversion and so happy to come for that under any other business or whatever but uh that's why I'm here if there's time yeah let's squeeze that in at the end of the uh Hot Topics so Liz if you could make a a section heading so that I remember to bring it up all right so since the last meeting we've had quite a bit of work done on post confirm um we abandoned the original plan to make a full Python 3"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "upgrade and change how it was glued to the mailman system in particular in favor of a quicker fix that left it in 2.7 and reduce the bounce rate um quite significantly I still haven't done a hard analysis but my rough estimate is is that we are getting less than 5% of the bounces that we were getting before the set of fixes that um just went in the big thing that we did that made some of the larger um aggregated mail providers happier was to provide a real address at i.org um on the message envelope um and there were also changes that did not make gratuitous line break Chang es to headers that were covered with signatures so um that improved the efficacy of what was going through so I believe we're going to run with the system as is John has a few more tweaks that he would like for us to consider but he is still building the testing framework out for them to make sure that they're um doing what he thinks that they're doing and we will um just run with this until we have the transition to the new it infrastructure which we'll talk about a little bit later in the call when we do make that transition post confirm is going to need to be um basically reimplemented rather than reused so Robert Just for information in case you didn't notice uh on the last I isg formal T chat we fully supported the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "use of it alternative algorithm or something at i.org for doing this for to get a nice from envelope awesome thank you yeah for those of you that might not be aware we're very careful when we take a name from at.org um we ask say the isg to approve it so that we are not taking away an acronym for a future working group Cindy would you like to walk us through what's happening with the IAB website so excuse me the IAB website uh has gone to the IAB for final review so that we can uh finish this up during the review two issues came up that uh need to be addressed before you can proceed one of them is less urgent and I seem to be the only person who noticed it because I'm running an old version of safari and that's that in the header image there's supposed to be a gradient overlay to make text easier to see and that's not showing up properly in older versions of safari the more urgent issue is that the sidebar menus are showing the wrong level of page um they're showing the the level you're currently at instead of one deeper which is fine if you're on a browser but if you're on mobile that means that you can't actually get to those lower level pages so I think Nick's the on who's going to be taking a look at those and then once that's addressed we will be getting the final okay to uh do this get this complete is it um do you think it's likely that we'll be deploying the new website before this iatf meeting or will it roll in shortly after I think it depends on how long it takes to to fix the menu issue um if it gets too close to the meeting just for my own sanity I would say do it after the meeting but it will'll SA"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "all right anybody have any questions about the I website um Nick and I are going to talk a little bit about an experiment that we have gone through to move the irtf website um to be served entirely um from cloud services rather than from um the current location that the service is being provided Nick would you give a real quick overview of how we're serving it how we're planning to serve it anyhow can you hear me yes so basically the source files are stored in GitHub and then when uh there's a deployment it's push to a Azure blob storage and then it serve as a basically a CDN from there so it allows us to have like a very large file because there's video files basically and yeah we can have both static files and video files on the blob storage CDN yeah the fun challenges here were that um Colin had an established workflow that involved um essentially making a release at the um GitHub repository then pushing um files from his local copy over FTP to the service that we've been using um that's that last step is replaced with a GitHub action that does a build you know part part of the the back end of the once the release is ready to go and looks good in staging because we are providing a staging area that he didn't have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "before um the a GitHub action actually pushes it out to the um cloud service some of the things that we discovered while we were doing this were surprising the site had grown organically over a very long time and several decades and there were policies that were strewn between HT access files and the primary Apache configuration file um decisions that had been made long ago um things like steering all traffic to the Apex domain instead of using www.ab sf.org um using cloud services um putting a service at the Apex domain is awkward um most cloud services work by letting by having you C name one of your names to one of their names and then they have infrastructure behind that name that provides the service um um caming an apex name doesn't work for reasons that we all know um anybody hasn't encountered it you need to have things like SOA and NS and other records up at um the Apex so um to use um cloud services as they've been implemented putting a web service at the Apex is complex and expensive so we are going to be changing that redirection back to um www.ir f.org one of the things that we discovered that we're going to wait until this deployment to fix in the current deployment if you walk up to the web service with an https URL for www.f.org you get redirected to http at rf. org and then redirected back to https atf.gov set of configurations through again the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "primary Apache configuration and then the HT access in the the the deployment um but the um this gets straightened out when when with the new deployment and we won't we won't have that misdirection through um the just plain HTTP transport all right anybody have any questions about that so so my understanding is that up to now the irtf site has been essentially all staticky files generated on a laptop and then as you said ftpd over to the site and the change you're making is that now it goes directly from GitHub to this uh static blob storage in the cloud provider that's correct okay cool I I love static websites because they don't break usually when you archive them as easily till the browsers change the rules all right Greg would you like to talk about where we are with dashboarding okay uh Well the description in the agenda covers it pretty well um I'm happy to answer any questions um uh but in case you haven't read it the summary is um getting a dashboard of sort of some highle current stats about work underway in the ITF um is something that um will be helpful generally but also it's something that the isg requested and thanks to Robert and Nick and other folks uh we think we'll have a live demo um by it18 um so yeah Michael I see your embedded question um we don't have anything that um we want to expose"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "before the isg signs off on it so um you can look at the just the examples at redash the the the redash project um the results are using basic outputs from that so the concept behind this is is that we have a dashboarding a purpose dashboarding um infrastructure that feeds off apis from different system systems the data tracker and the mail archive and we'll present ongoing um views um based on request we're building this first one out for the isg as the notes say and we've got a second one slated that would be just a standing year-to date kind of dashboard for the community that would also be useful for feeding into the annual report and by the way Greg do you intend to schedule another demonstration or show up with the isg in the coming today chats uh coming T chat no I think um we have a another um check-in next week and once we get through that then we'll know exactly when uh we' want to um do the isg presentation uh my guess is given timing it's going to be something like we did at 1117 where it'll be during the meeting itself okay all right next topic is a big one um we've been working um very hard since um the last ietf uh started just before the last ietf sorry did I hear a comment okay on a significant change to the way that rsc's are modeled in the data tracker database to date r RC's have been a pseudo revision of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "document called draft so um when you were looking at a draft in the data tracker and you moved on to the RFC it was if you were looking at you know some unnumbered magic version called RFC the plumbing to allow that to happen was complex um it made um it it necessarily caused n plus1 queries and a lot of page use um we stripped that out by making rfc's their own document type of type RFC with the leveraging the related document Plumbing to say this RFC came from that draft so the draft became this RSC there is a um deployment of the current working feature Branch at DTR r.d. f.org I encourage people to go play with it we've done um quite a bit of work with the front search page pay close attention in particular to the history tabs of a draft that has become RSC and at an RSC um navigate around see if you can find any problems we are going to be um asking that people exercise this exercise their their routines and this is a Sandbox instance any change you make there is is isolated to that instance and it will not send email to anyone so feel free to do crazy things in it um until um and through iatf 118 and we will merge and deploy just after 118 we' hoped to do that deploy by now but lots and lots and lots of of difficult edge cases to work through we still have one that is is open and that is rebuilding the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "references relationships so when you're looking at an RFC you can see what the RFC actually references and what referenced the RFC and rebuilding the relationships for the last draft revision before it became that RFC so that you can see what that revision referenced which is quite often different from what the RFC referenced as references get updated during the um RPC handling process the next thing that we will do after we deploy oh yeah one major feature before I move on to that um we're now explicitly modeling subseries as document types so there is a a document type of BCP STD and FYI um if you're looking at an RFC that is also an STD as part of an STD part of an uh uh uh BCP the metadata on the RFC page will will tell you so and you can get a link to look at a BCP that has multiple things in it and see what the entire constituency of that BCP is um one of the other things that we're working on is tuning the wording in the history that are added to the vcp objects and to the RSC objects when we ingest the subs series from the RSC editor index to make it clearer that these things have been part of a BCP or an STD for a very long time but the data tracker is just now learning about it so um like many many things we don't have good data to go back and synthesize the data from when things actually became part of a BCP or part of an STD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "there just have one RFC in the BCP and and the publication date of the RFC should match when it was joined in with the BCP but that other 20% is um rough and some of those dates are only in date form not datetime form and some of those dates are just flat missing there's a page at the RFC editor you can look at the constituency for when things were added to the BCP and notes were were there issues so data cleanup effort for another time so the final thing that I was going to mention is right after that deploy we have another big refactor that we talked about last month that's sitting there waiting ready to go that changes all of the models that pointed directly into a Jango into the Django user table where they should have been pointing into the data tracker person table instead um this simplifies a lot of of um problems that we were having with conflicting logic in the community application and that's the thing that lets you subscribe to to documents and in particular in the ncom application where feedback was hanging off of a Jango user instead of off of a data tracker person so that will be another disruptive thing that comes in during the slightly quier time post i118 all right any questions about making RC's distinct documents just a quick note that we are um starting discussions with zedx security as a the contractor that we put a multi-year contract in place for um doing Security reviews of our applications they're going to be looking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "at the df.org um service both the as deployed and doing a code review um we're expecting them to do this in the November December time frame and we are working through the agreements to get work started on that at in that time frame a quick note on our plans for moving away from tasty pie the V1 API for the data tracker um we had spent quite some time exploring whether or not we would replace tasty pie with a completely different Paradigm um called the um yeah my brain's going to fail to give me the word open graph graphql here we go graphql as the U um the mechanism that we would expose the database to general purpose um other people's applications um several of the things that we learned at the 117 code Sprint indicated that this wasn't um necessarily the greatest idea it's possible but very very hard to use to to use graphql to create a generic API for random users use without creating a thing where a single query can cause you to do um very very large amount of work um it's also not the clearest from a documenting the API point of view we had a champion of open API at the um Sprint that was explaining to us that we would probably be better off with something that um was closer to um perhaps the Jingo rest framework which is where um much of the kinds of things that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "tasty pie tried to do moved so we'll be staring um at that a little bit more closely over the next little bit we do intend to explore graphql for internal apis so when we have um hard access control and we know what queries are what the shape of the queries that are coming or going to be any questions about that all right moving on quickly I will touch on um a service that broke and went three months before anybody noticed that it broke we have a very few number of lists still where the actual list lives somewhere else but we want to keep a copy in mail archive um just as documentation um of of the work that the working group's been doing the one that's most active right now is is um the httv B working groups list which is at W3 and we had a email address subscribed to that that um the plumbing for receiving messages from that subscription broke and as I said it took three months for anybody to notice or complain we've restored it um it broke because we made a mistake um we dropped the domain name when we were moving things into into Cloud flare because we couldn't remember or find anything that was using that domain name and it turned out to be buried in the Deep Hilman archiving configuration um right now we're using an edf.org name that is again just completely opaque as a temporary basis it's got a bunch of hashed characters in it um we will move to a different subdomain later um after we bike shed making something that will be more self-documenting so somebody that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "stumbles across it in the future knows where to look for how it's being used anybody have any questions about this all right Dave if you wanted to um introduce the tool that you working on uh yeah sure um so let me start off with uh just saying that we've got lots of tooling around uh markdown and of course markdown is not expressive Enough by itself and so it had to be like yaml augmented with the cram down and so you don't have a pure markdown file uh but other communities such as the Linux kernel Community use rst the restructured text format rather than markdown for normal documentation so we get a bunch of um authors and even source files that uh people want to use that are written in rst rather than markdown and in particular the BPF working group um wanted to take uh rst files that's in the Linux kernel repository and use those to uh generate internet drafts that incorporate those rst files without having to do a conversion and uh of course you know previous iats we went through all the legal stuff and all the legal stuff has been worked out so there's no problem with that and so I had written a tool that converts from rst into the um uh RF the the XML to RFC V3 uh just like we have tools that do that for uh markdown and other formats and so now the BPF working group drafts or the ones that are uh up for adoption in there are in fact written in rst with this tool to do the conversion but of course there's nothing in the tool that's BPF specific it's just the generic tool right now the tool is sitting in my uh GitHub uh organization meaning it's just under github.com diler um and since it is not BPF specific um my thought is that it would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "be great to put it into the uh tools do or you know tools the i.org site alongside say the markdown stuff there might be some things you can do in rst not markdown and vice versa and that's okay because at the end of the day what you're getting is you're getting the the XML which is what actually gets submitted um and of course there's a couple places uh and so I'm raising this for visibility and for feedback and then I have one question um there's the uh uh uh Wiki that just talks about thank you Jay for the for the answers um I'm not going to ask those questions since you've just answered those I appreciate that um there's the like the drafting of their markup language which is just pure text instructions of how to do things and I could imagine another page being in parallel to that then there's the actual submission site the actual submission site accepts XML it accepts markdown and does the conversion on the back end right and so part of my question is um can you what I'd like to follow up with somebody offline I don't have to have the answer right now follow up with somebody Offline that says what happens when you do uh try to submit a markdown into the uh submission thing is that extensible so that's one question and the other question I have is is there any problem with it being under my GitHub organization do I need to move it under some tools GitHub organization if so I'm happy to do that you know right now it's MIT license but I'm happy to do whatever if it means it would be usable by uh more people so those are my questions but at least want to get visibility and get recommendations on next steps all right so to tune some of what you've observed the submission tool at the data tracker does not accept markdown it accepts XML we have tooling at author tools that will do markdown to XML conversion for people where then they can then carry that XML along um sorry that's the one that I meant author . ahf.org yep yeah authors author tools is where something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "would actually happen right authors is a Wiki that just talks about things so sorry um cramdown RSC is not the source for that is not in the if tools organization it is in Cabo's GitHub repository um so we have you know examples of tools that the community uses that are people are still hosting out of their own their own repo um as um usage increases um you know we we have conversations about whether or not we take on maintenance of things right and that is a separate conversation from whether or not we hold the tool in our ietf org um uh organization there are a few tools in the i.org organization already that we are housing because the community has is using them but the tool team doesn't really work on them it's the U um there is a lead maintainer that's established for those that that that is managing the um contributions to them so um this may evolve into something more streamlined as we go forward um but the the punchline and and my attempt to answer your your questions is is that um we we just talked through about what makes sense Jay just do feel free to just jump in yeah thanks so um Dave it provided that you keep the TOs catalog table up to dat um then the the tool as far as we're concerned still exists It's when um we sort of you know lose track with it when it decays that um we start to undo things to get it into author tools you just need to have a conversation with casara and he needs to check check that it works and that it's stable and that he can build it into the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "tools and all that kind of stuff it's pretty liberal about that um just need to make sure that it that it isn't going to cause him work in order to have that there um MIT license is perfect no issue at all um if you want documentation specific to that tool then we would suggest that's in the GitHub repo for that and we point to it from author tools from authors rather than actually having the stuff in authors um and then finally there's specific page in authors for drafting in unusual markup languages um which IR T is almost certainly one of them so you can uh just add an entire section to that um as you feel forit our PR and all I I would just generally check the pr to make sure it's not nonsense rather than actually attempt to get into the technical details of it okay yep all right um do you have anything else that you'd like to to to talk about uh I don't think so I'm taking my next steps is to follow uh PO requests like Jay mentioned um but now you've all got a little bit of introduction if you weren't aware of this before so thanks yep do be aware that casara is currently on an extended um PTO um he will he will return at the end of the month so we'll be slow to respond to any questions that are aimed directly at him I figure we can talk about at ietf if necessary so yep and he should be there so all right we're about to move into the FYI section of the meeting most of this um is usually um meant to be taken as R unless people have questions to bring up but we've got a few things that we should highlight this time around Jay if you'd like to um talk about the email processing Services RFP yeah so we have two um big rfps out um we have now um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "contracted for the email processing Services um RFP with um serus open source and we have Mark Jesse and Thomas from there um they currently already um do some work for us on postgress stuff and been very helpful but um over to you to introduce yourselves you got to use the microphone though oops I'm still the to had a little bit of challenge coming in here earlier but can everyone hear me now yep I'm Mark Taylor I'm from sirrius I'm our CEO I'm absolutely delighted to be here thank you very much for inviting me to the community event um and I'm joined with a couple of my colleagues here uh Jesse porty is one of our senior engineers and devop engineer who' be taking part in the mman project and Thomas is has been working with um you for quite some time in the post gross project um I don't know if you need anything else great to be here happy to see everyone happy to answer any questions but there we are looking forward to getting started we're not joined by one of my other colleagues um Steve who is one of the mailman core team uh who will be our lead engineer in the project very much looking forward to it and um we hope we're going to do excellent job for you that's pretty much it Jay great thank you Mark so Jay would you mind summarizing in one or two sentence the mission of so software for the ATF I'll leave that we've been around for a while um and I I think our our mission could be handily summarized by saying we're committed to seeing Open Standards open source and open data everywhere we've been around since 1998 um we're not exclusive with it but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "we do specialize in open- Source software um and we have been aware of course of the ietf for as long as our existence and we very much support your mission as well and for us Sirius we'll be taking over management of the entire mail um everything mail related just about so mailman and mail delivery um anti-spam you know white listing services all of that kind of stuff everything as a specialist provider around those about me Man 3 which was basically the core of my question okay thank you yes so we there will there the I mean the RFP has the the details in it's public so there will be a transfer over to mailman 3 that um Sirius will be running for us we do of course have the issue of post confirm and rewriting post confirm and uh I think the discussion that's taken place between Sirius and Robert is to replace that as a one or two mters built into um postfix I think so that's the the general plan around that okay and then just sorry okay I was just going to um emphasize and confirm what Jay is saying um we've been around Mar way for a very long time um including into the core team uh we understand there's some development work which we'd be happy to get involved in and support your end um and we think we probably have a pretty good chance of getting any uh changes built back into the underlying open source project as well okay thank you Mark and thank you and then the next one is the infrastructure Services RFP now we're still negotiating with the preferred bidder on there soon as the contract is signed we will let you know who they are and of course they'll um be introduced at one of these meetings um uh but we're not quite there yet should be just about there very shortly um so that's it for the things I just wanted to update on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "thanks all right so the rest of this again um I'm going to say to take as red if anybody has any questions about any of the services that we're talking about in the rest of this FYI section um skim feel free to ask if anybody has anything that they want to add to what's already in the notes um with a a verbal description just feel free to jump in point to the section I guess it is worth making sure that everyone sees the Strategic change in direction for y catalog we will be moving ongoing support of that back into the tools team on this one right the statement of work runs until end of December if not mistaken yes so we got commitment from panon to do the transfer I mean Joe Knows the the thing right he wrote it uh to the tools team yeah I I just reached out to them uh after Jay's note um to see how we can do that transfer of information when we can do it whom to work with um have obviously they're probably asleep haven't got an answer but yeah we we need to figure that out uh they are still doing maintenance they they did a a commit um just this past week but we we need to get the knowledge of the structure and the deployment and the the maintenance because what I wrote is not where it's at right now yeah I mean they work on it yeah you there is a documentation section of the project that they just need to ensure is um up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "to date I had pressed early on as they were building the deployment that it was complete um pleas to make sure that there hasn't been any drift and do we have already so I'm being close to be nasty here um who will be handling this in the tools steam it's there are only four of us so the uh um it will us yeah so for everyone else's benefit we've looked at this surface and it is um it is a fairly stable service um not a lot of development is needed on it and it's relatively low usage we're not entirely sure of the the usage level um and so we effect don't think we need what is effectively a full-time person on it anymore um so we're going to um and it runs on um AWS already it's unusual for much of our architecture so we're going to just take over the management of it um uh understand its usage little bit better and then consider whether certain parts of it can be um absorbed into um our other tool Suite as a sort of you know as a business as usual type thing rather than a specific Standalone site we haven't made that decision and then um possibly then wind down that site or transfer things over at some point in the future so generally we're in relatively low um level of effort required to keep it going um if we do have to do something specific and large to it then that will be need to be a separately funded project and we may well then go external for that rather than doing that internally it depends on how things fit so that's the um the plan for it all right I believe this takes us into open discussion in any other business if anybody has anything that they would like to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "discuss War wants uh Warren please just jump in thank you um so I actually just just just submitted a um GitHub issue and figured I would try and talk through it to provide some background um I've had this as a to-do item on my to-do list for a long time where action item list for a long time sometimes we end up with authors who pass away during the creation of a document and it can be distressing for the family to continue receiving email so for example the data tracker there's a new version posted Etc um what would be nice is if we could have some sort of feature so the data tracker would stop sending email to specific addresses um and Hope F this feature will be used very seldom so you know it should require exceptional handling to enable um I don't really think that we care how it's implemented we're thinking you know something where the data trackers try send the email and it just gets null routed or something but there's been a little bit of of Team discussion and even Community discussion about this already um the issue that you entered is basically a duplicate of a of another issue where there's some detail that's been added I will tie them together um after the call um it is on the road map um to provide uh this this better tooling okay awesome I thought that there was a ticket somewhere but I couldn't find it so I just opened another one and and let me add we also have on the road map and in memorium um section being added to data tracker as well um so that we can remember people who passed on as well all right the last thing that I have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "add is is it while we currently have a November meeting scheduled it is immediately after ietf the ITF meeting itself most people will still be traveling typically we cancel the meeting that's immediately after one of these um ietf meetings um the plan I will cancel this the plan will be that our next tools um Team call Will at in early December if it turns out there's a reason to get everyone together before then I will um schedule a session later in November we will at least we are planning also to have a section of the code Sprint be a little bit more um of an information sharing session um just talking through architectures some of these architectural changes um some of the ways that we're talking about using apis that will um make sure that we have a um Bridget remote participants can participate in and we'll try to find a time that works for as much of the globe as as we can as everyone knows finding something that um would allow remote participation for everyone in a convenient time is is not feasible um but we'll have details um about the timing of that up um in a week or so couple of weeks before we get to the meeting our meeting is is rolling up on us very very quickly so may I assume it will be recorded this the explanation if it comes if it comes together well then we will we will record it yes thank you all right unless somebody else has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "something else I want to thank everyone for taking the time to get together um this um opportunity to get feedback and direction is incredibly valuable and I appreciate you um giving your time to help us do the right thing and we will see many of you um at this next I meeting all right byebye"
  }
]
