[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "The the technology that they're using It's called me check out, which is neeg ech0. So that's make me make me echo, like, combined, I think, cap. I love the starting slide. That's so cute. Indeed. Yeah. Hi. So welcome, everyone. We actually So I'm here on. We have more koalas in the room than chairs. A leaf couldn't make it to Australia or even remotely. So I'll be sharing a a meeting today. And Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Okay. It's already midweek. If you haven't seen the note well yet Please, take a long look at the node 12. It applies to everything that we do at the IETF. And at this meeting, we will have a few starting words from me. Followed by Justin who will describe the latest the status of the two map documents. And then if time may or time should remain for any other business. Otherwise, we are very likely too and, early. So Speaking of status, the core, the gap core protocol has been approved by the ISG for publication. That's a very big achievement for us. Thank you to everyone who who was involved. And this only happened Last week, I believe. So really, really recently, I was supposed to call. Both shows, reddit, there there was another revision. We opened last call. And there was, absolute crickets, from the mailing list. No reviews, during, working group last call. We will be discussing So the chairs and the authors will be discussing this document with the ADs or with the incoming AD, the Soon after this, IETF meeting, Most likely, we will wrap up this working group immediately."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Since, the core protocol is already in the outside at the Tokyo and, we don't seem to have enough energy to drive the RS protocol through the working group. But this is all very tentative pending on on the AD's approach to this. Yeah, one last thing that I neglect neglected to say There was some very late small minor changes to the call protocol And, therefore, Justin published it, Earlier today. So that's the latest latest version. That's the version that's going into the RFC editor right now. And with that, I'll pass it to Justin. I don't know if this is gonna work, but yeah, It's not like You could try. Try the remote. Next slide. Think. Yeah. Yeah. There. A hit the button to Requesting sites. Okay. And this never. No. Hover over over may may may may and then hit the Yes. Kind of it kinda disappears. Okay. That should work. Cool. Alright. So hi, everybody. I'm Justin Richard. Com, As Yaron mentioned, we've got 2 graph drafts in the working group. And I'm gonna go through kind of the changes that we've had since last time. And, where we're gonna go from here. So, as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "is tradition, in the slide deck. You can get the diffs between the drafts from the last time. As of this morning, this is actually now out of date because there is now a, a dash 20 that does one small change, which I'll talk about in a moment. I didn't have a chance to, update these these slides, but the change is minor. Core draft went through, a handful changes, vast majority of them were editorial based on IESG feedback, clarification of concepts, that kinds of things. Once again, I didn't do the Ayana registrations, right, every single time I read an RFC, I seem to learn some new thing that I get wrong. But, those seem to be good. Now, the slave one was about media requests. So that's up there. They're, oh, and a lot of clarification of you know, the languages, the figures, like, what figures tied to which text and which examples tied to which you know, sort of surrounding pros and that thing. We did actually add a couple of security considerations for things that got that came up in the ISG review. There were some MTLS related bits in there. Encourage you to go look at the diffs. It's all you know, additive explanatory content. There were, there was one syntactical change and one additional normative change that I wanna cover. The syntactical change is that we change the Jose token types for the Jose key bindings. So they are now instead of Gannett binding plus JWSD, they are now Gannett finding dash JWSD. And that goes across all four different, types that are in there. Because there's gap rotation and gap binding, and then there's also JW JWSD and JWS versions of both of those. So, If you have an implementation of gap and you are and you are using the Jose based key binding mechanisms, then this is tax change that you need to make in order to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "fully compliant. The reasoning behind this is that that plus carries a lot of semantic meaning in media type and there was, resistance of registering new extensions for JWS and JWSD. From folks in the Jose community. For the purse purposes of Gannap, we were just trying to be good sit citizens and using the structures that we thought were going to be available there. And turns out those structures weren't there, and it really is not our place try and invent them. Within the Gannett protocol, we just really needed a way to signal that there are different message types and different container types And so we just have 4 distinct media types that are being registered for those things. A lot of the graph implementations that, I have personally worked with, HGP message signatures, which is not affected by this change. So if you're doing that or MTLS, this doesn't affect you at all. But if you are doing the Jose stuff, then, you should change your implementations and change that plus to a minus. And then You will be in compliance. The other normative change is actually on a recommended and that's the number of characters in user codes. It was pointed out that we didn't have a recommended lower bound for that. We just had a recommended upper bound for usability sake. And, based on, some fairly quick discussion, We, settled around a, a recommended range of to 8 characters for user facing codes. This is just a recommendation. It is not a requirement. You're still allowed to make longer codes. And if you really want to, shorter codes as well, but there's already a lot of discussion about the nature of those codes, characters you should pick. How you communicate them, how you target them to your expected users, how they're supposed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "carry them, through the system, all of that kind of stuff. A lot of that, we were able to sort of import from, other documents like the device flow and, and align all of that kind of stuff together. So Again, that was a normative change, but, functionally, not really a requirement change, since it is is advice. And, As of today, it is, officially in the RFC editor you for publication with those changes applied. And, So Yeah. That, this is awesome. It's been a lot of work that's gone into this. From a lot of people over the last roughly 4 years, from, from chartering to today. And, Gannap is a really big document. I was looking over our charter and milestones earlier, and the core document actually covers the vast majority of the milestones. In a single cohesive protocol document. Which wasn't necessarily what we thought was going to happen. When we started pulling things together, but that's that's what it is. So very exciting to see that moving forward. The RS draft, the editors did several rounds of cleanup. All culminating in the, in the current draft that was put out to the working group. Again, we added Diana registrations, if experienced tells me anything. Those are probably wrong in some way that I don't know about yet. Importantly, we added error responses based on, how core does things. We added an acknowledgement section Couple of little bits of cleanup, no real major changes, to the document. And then requested working group last call. So We got 0 response. To working group last call, as Yaron mentioned. None. None."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "No positive. Like, yes, this is fine. And I read it. No. I have a problem with this. None at all. None at all. So we are now trying to figure out what exactly to do with the RS draft and how we're going to do that. If anybody has input into that process or wants to volunteer right now to do a last call review of the RS draft. Now is a great time to bring that up? But right now, we're trying to figure out what the next steps are that. for What I would like to see, as the editor is the RS call to go to, to the ISG. And, It is a much much simpler document when compared to core. Much, much shorter, And it also borrows and adapts a lot of the structures and syntaxes and pieces from the core document for its specific focus. And so With that in mind, I think it's worth going that, but that is my personal opinion as a participant. Regardless of what happens to the RS draft, The editors think it's time to close the working group. And, So, hopefully, we can, we can ship this one document out the door. And then, We do not believe the editors do not believe that we will need a meeting to discuss things in Vancouver. Can I have a quick And that's that's it for my slides? So very, very quick update. A lot of the stuff that's been happening has been Already discussed on the list and and stuff is in motion. Some, Thank you, Justin. Any comments? Any questions? Anybody, those wishes to support,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "the publication of the arrest draft in any way. Peter. Founded yes, I just wanted to ask, given the the crickets, seen in the working group last call, are there, implementations of the IRS that are, draft that are being used. I guess I'm a little confused why mean, I understand this group has been relatively small, but Is nobody interested in this? Have you have you been churning out pages to the, to the Boyd so from my experience, there are implementations of different pieces of the RS draft. It the RS draft is not a single cohesive protocol. It's more a set of things that resource servers can optionally use to sort of enhance their connection to the AS, whereas Gonna have core, has a whole lot of things. You don't have to implement all of them, but you're going to be doing some part of that. Single protocol to implement Gannap. With the RS draft, I know some people have implemented introspection, some people are using JAW formatted Tokens, which are described in that draft as well. I don't know of anybody using the discovery portion we tried to reach out to get feedback on that. That was an issue that Yaron had filed about the RS facing discovery and We didn't really get a lot of feedback from the implementation communities. So I don't know of anybody, including myself, has implemented every single thing in that end to end in a single cohesive up. Okay. So It would be hard to say that we had interoperable implementations and lots of experience that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "That's that is correct. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Yep. That that said, though, I will I will also add that the RS draft deliberately reuses pieces from core. And tries to tries really hard to not invent things when it doesn't need to. But the statement still definitely stands. Okay. And with that, we bring our meeting to a close as Justin mentioned, we we will most likely not meet in Vancouver. But this remains to be seen. Thank you, everyone. Alright. Thank you all. There it is. Thank you. Those are the Is, such a thing? Yeah. Cause I know that they can turn it off. Don't know if anybody from Mead echo is listening here, but, this is actually on the Oh, they're on the chat. Aren't they? Yeah. Oh, the very least. It'll stop the recording. Okay. That's that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "I think some notes minutes. Awesome. Thank you Okay. Alright. I just dropped in the chat. There. Okay. Okay."
  }
]
