[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "Next. Should I change mode? No. That one. Okay. Okay. Well, maybe just one second just to walk Yes, sir. For the nod well, so at this time in in in this point of the week, you are already familiar with all the the not well details, but, yeah, basically, the the point here is to follow the IT rules. So we are aware of the all the process some policies of IETF in terms of patent disclosure, in terms privacy of the personal information and also the the the way of, running the meetings for this respectful a way of of working with our colleagues. Oh, Okay. So just emphasizing that the point of the conduct guidelines or we need to to participate with respect and courtesy and having personal discussions. So this is a technical forum So let's let's behave in, you know, a respectful way in that respect. Okay. Yes. To remind that the session is being recorded, make sure to sign in the to using that Miteco. The the tool or it's kinda in the QR code that you can see there in the in in the pro the projection. So, yeah, just for having the full recording of the of the participants for those that are participating remotely, please make sure that your audio and video is solved. Unless you you have to to talk Oh, Okay. This is the the new meeting called look and feel for, I guess that, again, at this point of, of the week, you already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "try it several times, the the meet echo be sure about the new buttons or the new ways of, participating So Yeah. Okay. From the administrative point of view, you can see on the on the screen the link for the minutes. So any one that could and techniques is more than welcome for the blue sheets. Again, contact your code or or, you know, just simply access the the medical tools. So this, the the zip will record the participants. Reminder about the IPF process. There is a procedure for pulling drugs 1000 contributors once the the the apps are progressing in the working group. But in any point of time, any of you is aware of IPR, please disclose that. And make it public. The digital decisions, right now, for sure, we have to we have, on front of us, and the details of the are in the link you can access in the ITS Agenda. As you can see, the agenda is very packed for today, we have, well, a full set of, presentations that are interesting presentations together with what's happened in the exam meeting yesterday. So, yep, interesting session. Just as a reminder, the working group for dynamize, or make the dynamic conversations and, and, then mention that I say the products of the of the group, please use the utilize the mailing list as much as as possible. Is is the way of disseminating the the discussions and and getting contributions from other people involved, other people in the discussions. We are fortunate of having as well very regular or a number of interesting number of weekly meetings so that the group is working well in that respect, but and, I mean, emphasizing the usage of of the Middle East makes the the participation broader. Again, some notes about the IPL process or the the the there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "procedure reporting draft, office, and contributors, the prime fire removing the drugs progressing in the working group process and again, insisting on on disclosing the PR. As as soon as you are aware of that. Name, I sent over Thank you. Thank you Luis So, an update on the status of the working group. We have 3 drafts, in the ISG processing, if I correctly remember, Daniel, subjected to help, join with the the L1 CSM. So you will be the the the AD, taking care, taking care of the draft. We have, a lot of the working group documents are being discussed today. This is, this is really good. We will, we will go through them, during the during the session. Now a quick, overview on the ones that will not, will not be presented today we have a data center client, the topology, this is something that, requires, a a little bit, a little bit of work the network inventory is is a a a strange beast. If you caught it, remember, we accepted it to work on in the interim. Fully aware that this draft, wouldn't fit into, our charter because, it started as an optical specific document, and then increase the the code to, it's scope, increase the in the meanwhile, the ID working group, been created, by the way, the heavy session, if you're interested in inventory, it will tomorrow morning. This draft will be moved to, to Ivy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "The the the the, part will be removed. Everything that is a technology specific will be removed and the here in Ccamp. We will work on augment finger, the core model, defining IV for technology specific extensions. There has not be, a lot of discussion on the WDM interface, LMP draft as well as the, young parameters. So, a little bit more, more work is needed on these ones. To, to progress. Then we needed to run the, young daughter review and the routing directed review on the flexi And, we have, another draft, which is a little to, cumbersome, in, in sea country, which is the bandwidth awareness topology. This one, we keep on working on that in C camper, but again, this is a this is a draft, which, might a fit in other working groups. Scott, you're in the queue. Thank you, Scott Mansfield Erickson. That one I'm presenting and teased tomorrow. So just so that, you know, I'm trying to get it off the agenda for CCAP. And while I have the floor, I don't do you have another slide, if not, on the agenda? Okay. Because there is the I submitted slides for one of my drafts. It's a best of radio, radio link. It's not is that on your not on the agenda slide? It's mirror slot. Sorry? We we have for a slight setting in your slot. So you can speak about them. Okay. I just want yeah. I'm going to say I just wanna give an advertisement it to get people in, but, okay, thanks. Didn't wanna go out. Now,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "what else? But computation both optical and, OTN. Those are pretty stable drafts. We have dependent is, on the generic part computation, drafted that is busy in the cast in, in this, which is now going through the second working group plus cola. So that's that's dependency should be resolved. Pretty pretty and we will be able to move these, these drafts, forward. The transport NBI, we recently pass me the thermometer chartered, the scope of, of the design team, we also have now, a dedicated mailing list. Done. I I've not seen if Dan has already advertised it on the Middle East or not, but if not, he will do you will do soon. Then the general model, we need to do a better alignment with the the T tunnel model. The team, the tunnel model is another dependency that been there for, for a while. There is there is a second working group plus call going on in in this, to progress, this document. It should, have ended a few days ago. So also, this dependency is, is resolved. The OTN slicing is another pretty stable document, which has stronger dependencies on, on That's it. Let's jump a directory to the next presentation. Which is the data model for optical impairment aware topology. Yep. You want the picker? Do you want me to move the sides? No. Yes. Okay. Good morning, to everybody."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "I'm going to report the status of optical impairment aware topology model for on behalf of, our coaters and contributors. Okay. This is, the major update since, the last ATF, in San Francisco, we we address, example of, how the vendors can define their operational, modes. And we introduce, how to use the model, to, set up, the the the operational modes We, there was a a very good review from Roberto about the document. And so we modified the, the the some picture related to the, 3 hour generator, And, then the we we we fixing the some mistake. In the section related to the OMS media channel group protection model, week that there was some problem, with some attributes and some modified with correct attributes, aligned with the young and we address, booksponderconstrained configuration. That was, inherited from discussion in the flexible grid contest, but then we decide that, the best, place to to to others that was the optical infarment, topology model. We we also added a new section ready to do the dynamic, gain a colonization. And that we we we added the, really it a young update,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "for, for this topic. Next. Okay. For for Moxt pounder clustering, the the the problem was that, the the the traditional muxponder like, 10 by 10 gigabit ever let me say fix it, mapping between the client portal towards the the line so the the client portal towards the time slot related to the line. Now there is also, some, the new muxponder that in stead are flexible. So the mapping on the client important types of what the map may be provisioning. Because he's he's flexible. Obviously, the the the muxponder constrain, this type of constraint as an impact also on the fact that, how you can, pay the client portal, in case you have appeared moves on there. So we need to support the co the constraint disclosure towards, MDSC for for the for the old. So with the hardware constraint, much ponder, but also the possibility to to give information related to the flexible case. So we introduced, parameters in a layer sequence number, that is specifically used to report this additional connectivity constraint. Between the the the the LTP that is represented, the the client, port and, the the the server, the layer, tunnel termination point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "that's representing the line the line port. Next. So the this is an example. We have two pair of, moose bond there. The, the top pair, is, the case you have, hardware constraints, and they did the the other pay payer in the bolt on instead are, of the flexible case, on on the bottom of the slider, there is the model or presentation. So with the client port that is represented by the 8th LTP from 10 to 17, identifier, And, we have 2, the tunnel that are represented by triangle, and is the the tunnel termination point. If you take the example, the the the red one, in the in the first table, is an example on which the the the the the client portal from expander, a 1, since there is, muxponder constraint, can be connected just to the client port of 53 on the, Zeta 1, a muxponder. And in this case, this has to be recognized by the interlayer, sequence number that has to be, the same. So it's one for both the kids. In the case of the payer, are flexible interlayer sequence number is, is not set up because any possible, couple of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "the the the the client port can be, can be permitted In fact, that the 4 client port, 11, 14, 15 can be and a couple with anyone of the, of the other, part of the, of the of them okay. We introduced the the guideline for, DG. And, actually, we model the DG, 5 shown in a different way depending on their hardware implementation so we model that as a two degree tier node. In the case that, you terminated the media channel group, and this is based on traditional WSS based. Or, as a new, OMS element that is not terminated MS messaging, and this is based with the, new the the partive technology of, gain, shaping, equalization we added the, a specific attribute in the OMS part as I put on the on the right of the slides, the younger presentation that is the is the dynamic gain equal equalizer that, means that this case of OMS element is a DG we added the PDL parameters for amplifier level, and we also added Delta power. That is also in the part of the road map, but, this, act as a pre emphasis, that different with respect to what obtained for delta power in the road. In red, I put the fact that we do not complete all day all the story because there is some debate related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "for possible limited accuracy in the noise figure in case of, equivalent amplifier. So the case of OMS element are still in discussion. We are studying a bit possible impact, Roberto is, he's making some computation that we say. And but we we we hope that, we we solve the issue, soon. To complete the picture for DG. About the the the the the open issue. There is, we we have also, this discussion yesterday so. So it is not a completely update it this live because the, issue 1, 123 about the boundary between layers 0 layer 1, is not considered a blocking point for last call in this context of optical impairment and has been considered also more. Not dedicated for optical impairment, but for the layer there in general. So as we moved to the RFC 1993. As a receipt. There is no, particular issue in this list that, needed to further discussion apart the 153 related to the G G that, as I said before, So is more, related to the homework. And, fix some, a part, in particular, not in the young, but, yeah, for some textual part in the drafts. Next so next step, so the the the young model is is pretty stable. For a while. We added some point, but the the the model is stable."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "There there is, some issue that, as I said, that does not mandate a big discussion. So we hope, to solve all this issue as soon as possible. And, to be ready for last call. Maybe possible for next, IETF. As usual, there is that for for whom is not does not know yet that we have a weekly call for, the topic for optical impairment on Tuesday. From 2:3 PM, European time, and, everybody is welcome. To attend Do we have a different set of slides for the for 1993 or is the same is it in the same package? Okay. Okay. Because you've suggested me to No no no one ever does what they say. So I am surprised. Christy. K. Next next for, for, LSC 1993. We had a lot of, of the of the regarding the young. So we convert, the DBMT, using instead powering DBM, for, the definition of the type def we, delayed and clean up the fact definition. So the effect definition that are not related standard reference has been delay keeps in the, identity part of the fact we, update the young model"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "align them with alignment, to fix a young doctor, last call comments they there there was some motor description, that that that with respect to optical impairments. So we align the the the description And, we changed the, definition and, and the related discussion for flexible grid channels facing. Because there was a a problem that says that channel spacing is a term that is, has to be used in the contest of fixed aggregate And instead, we used the, nominal center frequency granularity the context of flexible grid. So we deprecate the, old flexible getting the related that, state retirement and, we substitute with the new one. And, we had, related a new identity for the granularity, based granularity, for the nominal center frequency run rate. Next, Okay. Then the other other update, is that there was some problem with the reference, a normative reference, related information RFC. So these, a normative reference, have been a substitute with an real enormity referencing to currencies. So we changed, some, pointer to correct RFC. We we updated the flexible greater label of grouping as a depicted on the on the side, in the slides,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the the the flexible get the level of had a a branching that can make some, from from from would provide some problem related to possible interworking because, you've could use the, the the case of a single channel label in 2, in two ways. So, as one case for case single. Or you use, you can use the branch for super considering the list as a, just one element. To avoid this type of problem. With deprecate the, the super, case We introduced the new one. With the minimum, element of 2. So, in case of single channel, you can use just the the case for single. Then there is, the the update of the WDN model and, we introduce, a new, grouping that is combining the definition that we had in case, or fix that grid. That's when the w zone and flexible grid. In the contest of, the new scenario that support the new scenarios for both fixed and flexible grid as Iowa will present after, this presentation, and, the new grouping have been provided in the error c in these drafts. And these, are the the the 4 grouping that, I reported next Here is the young model definition of the grouping that I just mentioned."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Plus, the new grouping using for, the tuning of, transmitter. For the range and the granularity. That step Next, okay. Open. Can we jump into the next step? We are already Okay. Okay. Okay. Obviously, we we would like to address all the issue because our intention would be to bring both the RFC 9093 and impairment in the same, well, last call on the same time, so this is our intention to work on that to to to be ready for, for last call. Any question? So I give one that we already did the the young data review for both, both documents. It was some months ago. So I've not seen very big changes that require a new young daughter review you do you agree with that? Yes. So we are waiting for the issues to be closed go for the route indirect review that on them. Maybe. Yes. It will be beneficial to wait, and then we can we can move as as we said, we will move them forward as a as a cluster Yes. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. I have one comment, actually, for these 2 drafts, for each meeting, actually, you fixed a couple of open issues and said that they are ready for the last call. Actually, there are, you know, even more open issues coming up. So I'm really, confident that they are really ready for that last call for the next meeting. So, I mean, the guys, can you think about how to make this draft, you know, stable as soon possible because they are really quite old. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "But the point is that, as I said, that the the most of the open issue are not something that does needed to be the paid alone. So all the point that, should need some debated discussion have been addressed yes, there was also some new point and no issue. Like DG that has been introduced. This, can happen. But we are confident that we can fix, the the the remaining issue In a good time frame for the next, IETF. Because the the nothing of no one of, of this, there are no many, you know, of these issues that are a real book in on. It's something that is, provide can be fixed with, correct on work. Okay. That's the Yeah. Oh, yep. There are more authors and contributors in this drafted. People in that room. Uh-uh, I'll explain Okay. So, right, so I run my name is Aywa, and I'm be presenting this draft on behalf of long list of co authors and contributors. Of them are carried over from the previous 2 working group documents, the WDM, the W sound tunnel and the flex grid tunnel as well as the current active participants for this discussion. Next page. Right. So as it so it's a bit of the history. Right? So we have 2 separated working group, drafts on WDM related to tunnel models for w sound, flash grid, And, now we have a technology migration that asks to that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "our model to support a mix to w zone and fracks greater optical networking where, in which We have to provide a young model to support scenarios that they those 2 technologies will coexist, before, you know, one kills another. Right? So we, and also the definitions, the model constructs for w sound and as far as grad, as we see, there are a lot of similarities most of them are actually shared. So I, the the working group feel like we don't need to redefine make a duplicate definition across these two drafts. So the consensus is actually to merge the 2 tunnels into a single tunnel model into a single common model that deals with the whole entire WDN technology. Right? Next to page. So, yeah, then here is the logistics logistics. You know, we have 2 working group drafts. And, The author's are taking cautious steps just to not ruined the working group of process. So we decided to start from a individual draft. And then, we're gonna hopefully ask a working group, to adopt and then replace the 2 working group drafts. So Maybe we can take this now instead of and the Yeah. Absolutely. Of the of the presentation. So this is a this is a drafted that is the marriage of 2 working group drafts. It doesn't need to go through all the process again and through IPR polling, working group adoption again. So a lot for being cautious. But, I think you can resubmit it as draft, IETF, c camp here. You forgot c camp in in the name of the draft, but Okay? And, asset replacement. Don't forget to mark the 2"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "exist in draft server as a replacement and not this individual one. That's right. Okay, right. Okay. So as soon as we get a green light to go forward, we'll we're gonna take the steps. Perfect. Next to page, Right. So here, a a couple of updates to the merge draft. So we, added some text to description accordingly to, describe a unified view, for WDM tunnels and, Now, the scope as you see or, combine the W sound effects grid networks, and also the updates to the yam model. So we, there are separate, model structure for the w for the w sound and the flexor label before, and now we are creating a new combined, label structure for both w zone less grid essentially reusing what we have defined, for, separately for w sound. That's great. And also the intention of this model, as we move forward is to support both both integrated the scenarios where the, an open, optical controller, has full end to end control for the for the for the, integrated transponders. As well as, to support new scenarios where we have the open line system with external transponders as well as in the packet optical integration scenarios, regardless of the different options we are gonna take take take take take and, and also the same, grouping hopefully, will be common between the WDM channel and the optical pack computation and intend to reuse it between the two models. So, with that, we, the common WDM grouping has been added to the, RC 9093 biz as, Sergio has presented before."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "And also we added, new parameters to allow, a client to indicate certain WDM level constraints when provisioning a WDM tunnel. So I'll go through this in detail in next few slides. Next, next to page, Right. So Basically, when we create a tunnel, we allow a client to to specify, constraints, for the, both in the scope of in the entire WDM tunnel, or in the individual path. Of a WTM tunnel that allows the the user to say what are the operational modes of the transceivers, and what are the working frequency range that you want this WDM tunnel to, to, to to be to be use using and, the, right, as you see, the same grouping are applied to both the tunnel, level WDM constrained as well as the path level constraint where we have and also covers the scenario for both starting a terminating transponder as well as the regenerative case where you have 2 and back to back, transceivers, from both input and output as you see on the on the right side, next to page, Right. So here's the, a combined view of the WDM label, specification, that has both you know, carries the inherits the definition from both, w song where there's a fixed at DWDM, CWDM, as well as FlexGrid, from the FlexGrid, label specification. Yeah. There's nothing new here. It's just the combination of the 2 definitions. Together, together,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "and also inherits the deprecated super branch from the flex grid. Now we have the multi they call choice statement, in the in the, flash grid label specification. Next to page, And here are a a list of, WDM, level constraints, that could, affect how the path, WTM path is selected. And we have, currently you know, definitions like, what would be the expected, SNL margin for, for, expected WDM tunnel. And whether that WDN tunnel is allowed to use regenerators explicitly or you would prefer, the controller to take actions and decide whether a region is used or not. And other constraints like whether web links constrain, web links, conversing, should be allowed or, what the what are the algorithm for WDM, wavelengths assignment, whether you need a broadband size, how much where they need to godband and how much is the It's the size of the of the card band. And whether you support, the same use the same wavelengths, for both forward and reverse direction, or you allow different wavelengths in in both ways. Also for restoration whether retuning is enabled or not. And there's a there's a small, pick up in the in the parameter called Delta power, where the type for the Delta power, was set to use gain, as defined in laser types. But the delta power could both be positive and the negative. So there was there will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "that there's a change in, in the definition and, the next revision of that will need to, fix it and and reflects the same changes as we do for optical impairment. Right? Right. Next page. Right. So the next steps is to do the working group adoption to replace the W sound in a flash grid channel, channel and also align the model with that with the optical path computation by reusing all the groupings. For both models. And also, we'll continually to continuously to align with, the discussion happening in, optical impairments, And also, there are a few, open points about the, how to associate the WDM let teno path. With the, definition in optical impairment with respects to the end to end media channel pass the ID, Right. Right. So And as usual, we have the weekly team meeting, at every Thursday, 8 AM EST. And so here's to Webex call. So any anyone interested in this work is more than welcome join And, hopefully, we can move this, real fast. Okay. Comments, Questions? Oh, So it sounds like a very smooth, Yep. Yep. Presentation. Thank you. I saved him quite a bit of time. I think the ISG will appreciate the merger of the 2 it's one less documented review."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:07",
    "text": "Next one is Scott. So, Scott, you have a 4 different sets of slices. Do you want me to pull all of them? Just one, 2, you do a model and you like Not possible. Yeah. Okay. We'll start with that one. Alright. Thank you, everyone. I'm Scott Mansfield Erickson. And so I have a few drafts here. There was the, microwave draft that we've been microarchology draft that we've been working on for a while. There were a couple of modules that were in that draft that were that that were taken out and created as as separate projects, and now we're trying to find a home for them. This, bandwidth availability topology is one of them. So if you go to the next slide, It's, very simple to describe this because we have a microwave topology draft. Bandwidth availability is a general, generic feature. And we don't need to have topology model. So, there's a GitHub, there's a draft, And so we're I'm going to present this tomorrow and tease and see if they want it. If they don't want it, I'll take it to Net mod. Net mod takes think. So, go to the next live And so that's it. So, and then we're just asking for feedback now. Now we wanna start progressing the technology work of that and and at least in CCamp, we have a meeting every week we talk about microwave related things. So can't Scott, one question. The the bandwidth availability model that you were putting the microwave was too much radio related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "So the the purpose if you move to to us would be to make wider Yes. Absolutely. And it doesn't stop us from progressing our microwave draft. And it provides the opportunity for people to do something more than just microwave. For the bandwidth availability. Right. Okay. Thank you. I mean, but we'll start with what I So Right. So the next one is interface apology. This is the same thing. Well, not the same thing. This is another module that was in the microwave topology draft that we have, we have someone in the queue, someone I want to take it now. Well, sure. I mean, it might not be about this one. Well, hold on. Okay. If it's about this 1, then hold on a second. Okay. So we discussed the draft yesterday. If you go to the next slide, we discussed this draft yesterday in that I don't remember where we were. And, and the Rob Wilton was, under the impression that it would be good to move it out of, Ccamp and have it someplace else but he didn't know if, Net Mod was the right place. So we're continuing to look for the right place for this one This is a draft that, links together a apology endpoint with a, interface. So that doesn't need to be in a microwave topology thing either. There is, the te topology draft that we have for microwave is already a whole slew of miscellaneous things. So it would really be great to be in there, but that one's not open right now. So we're trying to progress this as another augmentation. So now I'll take the question. I'll I'll Review with a draft, And I saw there's, like, just one note defined."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "To build the relationship with interface then And I I think it's right now, it's just a t specific. Right? You you just open the teone. But right now, we Right now. Yeah. We actually, proposing a draft court inventory topology. Trying to build a physical topology. In that way, interface can be can have correlation with, like, topology. So, I think maybe we can work together to fix that out. So my question is whether this should be piece specific or it can be more general one. Well, it's, I wanted to get it out of microwave topology because it doesn't need to be there. Yeah. If there is a more generic thing where we can tie endpoints, termination points to interface is in a more generic way. I'm all ready to listen to that. So we should take that to the list and decide where it goes. So we'll work with Rob and others to find the right place. We started Ivy with the scope of a working group of a single document. If you already have a 8 document, the Because it is. You sure it's not poison ivy? It's the county. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thanks. So go to the next one. Was there somebody else in the queue that's there's a 2 next to Oh, okay. Hi, Oscar. Oscar Hotel with the this hat chair on. So we welcome tomorrow also to to present the the draft there. And the the decision whether it's more an inventory thing or more, testing is if it complies with what traffic engine initiatives So if information that you are exposing is using. It's useful to make decisions and to be able to achieve the traffic better for sure I think this is the right place for that. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "We can discuss that tomorrow, but for Yeah. Preliminary conversations with our we believe that it is it seems to be appropriate to Yes. Yeah. We we appreciate all comers. Okay. So the next One is this is an individual draft. So this is a 00 draft. We finally decided to throw the covers off and and, stick it up as a, 00 And, 8561 is a draft for microwave radio link there are some changes that we would like to make. So we've been having discussions, on that. If you go to next slide, if you wanna track what we've been talking about, we have a GitHub and there's lots of meeting minutes on the GitHub page that show all the different things that we've been working on here. And what I would like to do with this is just make sure that I'm doing the right process to get it adopted as a working draft. So just let me know what I need to do and the order with which I need to do it. And we can do it on the mailing list and move this thing forward and have a fruitful discussion in Brisbane. So Thank you. Later after that, it's Right. Yes. A draft. It fits in sequence. That's right. Okay. And the last one? This is the one that I really hope to kick it kick it out. It's it's old enough to fly on its own. It's time to leave the nest. And so this is the microwave topology draft that kicked off a lot of this stuff, We have been working on this thing for, upwards of a couple years now. So I think it's time for it to move on. And the if you go to next slide, So we have had and we continue to have lots of weekly meetings, while meeting every week anyway. And, we there was a last call on version 5. And then, we implemented all of those things. Tom Petch was the one that provided tons of comments, and they were great comments. It really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "clarified and made the draft a lot better. So we did that. If you wanna see what the differences are, you can look at the diff link. And then other than the last calls, there was an alignment exercise that, Talo was doing in all of his topology drafts as well to make all of the apology drafts look the same when it comes to, presence containers. So we fixed that. And so if you go to the next slide, so where we are now is What's how do we do? We need another last call Do you want us to do another last call? Do you want us to do an IPR call? I mean, what's the next step? How do we kick this thing out and let it fly on its own. Thanks. So you just removed pieces from the draft. You didn't add. That much. So it's We did not well, we've we answered the comments that we were given. The only real addition wanted to call in an addition as we changed a few containers to present containers to better align with the other topology work So that's the only change. And then we also did take out 2 modules. Yeah. Right. So, I I was I I I I didn't recall by Harte, so I was checking on the data tracker. It doesn't seem that we did young doctor review of the draft. Did we? And it's not here. I don't recall my art. I don't okay. Well, if there's a special request that we need to make in order to do a yang doctor review, we didn't do that. Okay. So I don't I don't think it's mandatory. We usually do it a actually, we reviews it from Tom, Tommy, for have so many so many for that mistake is a young daughter. Is it he? Oh, He certainly did provide some wonder sure. Okay. Better. comments on the Yang. So whether or not that makes my Yang doctor or not, I don't know. But he he did a really great job and Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "You have any suggestion, To me, it's it's ready to move forward because plenty of reviews. We did the last call cut Okay. So just let me know. Then okay. That's it. That's all I had. So that was four drafts and in, you know, 10 minutes. I'm good. Perfect. Thanks a lot. Okay. How you score. Receivable hepsum. Hello, Liz Childer from Huawei. I'm quite we're glad to, do this presentation on behalf of all the user and contributors. Next slide, please. And, for the casting, no, Jeff, today, we want to introduce their update. We may since I just want 117. And and also we raised 2, open discussion points here. At first, let me introduce the update we made, since I, last item meeting And first, we standard a user label, which is, for some operator, they have some requirement to provide some alias for the, casino service And the second, extension is to assess node UI and the LTP by. This issue was raised when discussing, discussing the key types, uptake draft. And it seems that our internal model and consignal model are using the identify from their t topology and not using the identify for network topology. And here when after we extend these 2 attributes, and we can also use the network and network topology model. It's his alignment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "And the second, the next one, extension is the PM state. And for some operator, they want to provide some service level performance, to the uses for some SLA, perspective. N, we also extend a arrow info, which used to provide more vendor specific and technology specific error information while doing the service configuration, And the last extension is the alarm threshold. And with this threshold, we can give a whole, life cycle for the, maintenance For example, we can set the latency threshold for the service and then we can recognize the service latency. And if there's a, if the service latency exceeds their threshold, there will be alarm way to the a race to the app system. And, all these five extensions are also applicable to their, Ethernet service model. Okay. Next. Okay. This is the open discussion and the first open discussion is we want to discuss the architecture of can't signal service and also the tunnel model. And in this picture, you can see that, there are there are different granularty old UK crossing connection accruiting created on the intermediate nodes, and with the currently ASIN service internal model, we can only say that we need to provide a service object and a ocean tunnel object. And the auto internal object, it is not very clear to whether this can cover the configuration of the intermediate nodes because they are in different granular granularity. And compared to the ITU and TMF monitoring, you can see that they have provide different layer of chain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "including the current trailer and different granularity of audio. Audio k trail and also the OTU trail. So here, here, we recognize, several missing definition or maybe we need to enhance in our current job. First, it's just why not it's just not clear whether the open tunnel in the ASIC architecture can provide all the layer or audio k and old UK Trail, up ITU and TMM modeling. The second Measing definition is that we when look clear, whether the kind of signal solids in the ACN model can be mapped to the, traditional, objects are not, and whether we need to define a new kind of object. And we also see that in the ethernet tunnel, model, there is also, placeholder which was intend to define their time tunnel. The sir missing point recognize is it is very not clear how to use the current model to create an end to end service because a lot of attributes, which is related with service such as the protection and restoration and past competition policy and past constraints, identify in a channel model, not in a service model. So do we need to preset a tunnel at the beginning, or not, And the last bullet is, It is not very clear. Do we need to model in the causing connection in our current data model. So in the next step, we're going to disturb all the missing definition. Nest Netflix? Nesla? Sorry. Okay. The next open discussion point is that whether we need a service levels past competition. And currently, we had tunnel pass competition aptitude defined in the TD model and also some extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "by the OG Internal and WDN turnover, but, but, In the line network, the ocean tunnel object is not the ultimate object which is to the user. So a wider, the kind of signal survey or the internet survey is is the object which is delivered to the user. So many operator they prefer to have her service levels past competition. And that's split for the past computation RPC is a, with the current, terminal pass computation, it can only provide loop object in the single layer. And there's some requirement to, specified different layer of of resource while doing the past computation. And also to give her end to end past competition, which including both auto and double WDM tunnel. This is first discussion point of the SaaS so with past computation, the the second discussion point is how to use the past competition result. After the in the service configuration. Here we run from the, the model of tabby you can see in the structure, there is a topology constraint, which if there will in crew pass and escrow pass, Just a past UID, which is, pointing to the past computation result. So I also consider, I was saying that it is worth convening to use or specify the past, by by the ID and when doing the service configuration. N and in cool or as cool us, are or several paths is a, functionality, tunnel data model, a past competition is not supported right now. And the input pass and active pass could be it's time to be the another use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "to, for example, to include or escrow a service, which I consider. It is very common use case in the operators network. And also there could be some some other are the ones function if we can provide pass object. For example, the operator thing, they can do some planning for past state, this past, they don't need to generate by the past computation. And some operator, they have strong willing to control the past information So they can create a pass and reference the pass while doing the service configuration. Next slide, please. There is a question. Okay. We are in the next steps. Okay. We can take it at the end. Yeah. Okay. The next step, we are going to figure out the solution for the issue we raised in the open discussion and also we were going to fix their is is setting issues And, also, we want to cooperate with the, TMPAT design team. And design more use cases and final gaps. And we are also willing to, welcome order, as per to Johnny's work and, Okay? Just work for this draft. Thank you. Yeah. Nigel just wanted to note that in your as you've pointed to Tappy, we've we just added a thing called path set, which is a grouping of, of paths that could be used together so you could include a path set rather than just a set know, individual parts where the pass set was calculated as a single like, it's gonna say, come here, consistent unit where each path could be an alternative. You might wanna look at the path set. I think it's only in, tappy 2.5, but that might be useful. Oh, okay. The Any other question? No. Thanks a lot."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:14",
    "text": "Okay. You just meet again. And this is the dry filter optical resource performance monitoring, and I'm going to, do this presentation for on behalf of all legal officers Next page, please. Okay. And at first, we, want introduce the, motivation or maybe the target of our draft And this drive is aimed to, cover all the functionality of legacy interface such a light and cozy, and COVID. And currently, you can see the table that, all the interface, into are supported by our draft accept their, their, interface, which is their in iterator, which is considered out of scope. And, these graph is not a simple translation, from the MTO's interface to the to a young data model and it should be harmonized with the, data model we have in the topology and also the inventory. Okay. Next page. And, at the beginning of this drought, some people ask why this drop its optical specific. And currently, we also provide some optical, optical Space VPN indicator, which is reference on, ITUT And you can see that this this table is which is reference fund, itutg.a 74, it is defined it is used to find the, PN indicator on the, out UK channel, channel, some other other captures, actors,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "and we consider these PM indicator can be used in this draft, But it it is also we also found that, the modeling of ITT And IETF team modeling are quite different, which we also, tell in the last presentation, and we think if we we need some more alignment n, I think we also recognize that there's a drive which is, ICNFGN, Jeff, as in this draft, could help to deal with this requirement. Okay. Next page, please. And since that, this draft have been finished, accomplished almost all the work, and I I believe that this where it's right and a valuable job. And it can, if it few other gaps that we recognize that it cannot support the PM function of of of of tradition, a traditional PN function so that, and we consider that, this is the right the Russian and are running in, Sequan walking group, and we would like to, call for a walk in group adoption And if it, this drive is adopted by the, walking group, we want to design side candidate use case in and, call for contribution to the TMPI design team too. And, okay, if any people over the interested in our job, we are welcome you to join our Thank you. K? As well. You. Any question? I see Nigel, you're in the queue. It's from before. Okay. No worries. No worries. I removed it. Okay. I see. No questions. So thanks a lot. Let's move it to the next one. Just I'm, and I've been a singer for everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "if you are presenting a multiple, drafts in the same slot. If you could put all the slides into a single package, it's much easier from, from the And another thing Thanks a lot to the ones that started the summit in the draft, the slides on their own that's really good. It works perfectly. If you could put the number of your slot in the title of, of the deck. That's much easier to search when when opening them. If you could do that, that would make things much easier. Number 6. The file the filing should start with this whole number. If possible, yes, Yes. Yes. Or at least to put the name somewhere in the title so that I search for numbers, instead of titles. That's it. This could be the case when I picked up when I picked up the wrong slides, in fact, just to to justify what they just said. The solution does appear resource performance monitoring and configuration. Done. You have, 18 seconds left. I hear a lot of requirements for for slides and things. Do we still need chairs, you know, if we end up doing all these things? No. You're done. So so one one just quick, Preamble, did did anyone give updates to the TMBI this morning? Because we had a psych meeting yesterday. It what's worth me giving 62nd update on that or too late. Suppose I've got the microphone now. Yeah, so yesterday, we had their type meeting, essentially an informal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "meeting for the transport MDI where we wanted to kind of really kick start and actually get moving, and do and do and do some work. So, essentially, I'll send an update at some point to the list but we've identified 2 use cases that we're gonna focus on. 1st, remember that sort of the charter, the scope of the TMBIs really to take some of the work that we've done and we're in the process of doing. So these data models, the ingredients, blend them together in a recipe, you know, how we actually use some of these C cam data models to solve specific problems. In this example, what we're going to work on first is inventory, and then using that inventory, extrapolating it from the network and being able to create apology for layer 0+1. And then we can kind of use that as the enabler for for other maybe more complex use cases. So what's the output hits not internet draft. It's not RFCs. It's really best practice. If we find any issues, maybe we can move those back and actually fix them. Maybe it's just, you know, minor things that are really implementation specific because we're gonna have JSON. We'll have code. We're gonna publish on the GitHub. It's it's really what we should be doing with IETF Technology, showing people how to use the So the does it make sense to start from inventory right now that we don't have the core model for inventory. I think it's stable enough Yeah. Yeah. Tell the heavy guys. They're not not not us. Yeah. I'm not sure they have con fully convinced but Yeah. Yeah. Product well, actually, there is some convergence. We will start the the working group adoption pretty pretty soon. And so most likely I don't expect, major differences with respect to what we have now, but keep an eye on that, just in just in case. So we are only focused on the optical domain for a start. If if if it turns out, actually,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "during this process. And we run our simulation and generate our examples, we find out there are gaps. That's great. Feedback. Let's see if I'm better. Yes. To to the Ivy folks. Cool. Oh, and we have a mailing list, and I'll send that out. Well. So anyone's welcome to join, at least it will be archived as well. Cool. Yes. My presentation. So this is an individual documents relatively recent proposal. It's got HTN in the title means Daniel gets a euro for each new document, has STN as the editor of the STN framework. What is this document out? What is this document? That's I remember. It is. Essentially, ACTN is about abstracting network resources, using this sort of, functional architecture of CNC, MDSC to the PNC, and setting up end to end connections but essentially the MDC talking to the to the PNC through the MPI. So this brave new world of abstraction for traffic engineered networks. However, it turns out that in other standards organizations, they have things like Emtosey, Corber, and in TMF, you have these sort of, management, components, and models And then when you're looking to set up new services through your shiny abstraction, interfaces, you might actually want to monitor those servers you might have, particular alarms information that you'll need. You might actually want to do some fine grain control. Of these services as well through of course, your MDSC to your PMC. So what I what we've tried to do, there's a couple of authors on document is think about how ACN can continue to evolve. And and and and address some of the requirements of the more sort of traditional,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "OSS sort of NMS type, infrastructure. So it's not replacing that, you know, potentially this, if you're building and deploying something based on ACTN, then essentially you're augmenting or enhancing it using some of these proposals. Next slide, please. You you will continue to use, obviously, the the IETF technologies that are, available to us we want to use the existing models wherever possible. It turns out actually inventory could be a very powerful data model or series of data models for extracting information. So now you can kind of a build a network view, not only on topology, actually on the inventory. You're not necessarily what's online and in service, but what could be, available. And, of course, there's information that is available through in the inventory even if it's online, available or even being used, that you can't get Now this isn't necessarily in either or. These aren't sort of HTN fine grain management for HTN or fine grain network management for is not mutually exclusive to HTN. It's just a sort of continuation. And it's it's much more about sort of achieving some of the more traditional m F caps, so this sort of full configuration, accounting, performance, and security. Yes. And I I for this week, I've just been focusing more on security as well. And it just seems to be, some gaps that we've just assumed that obstacles relatively secure because it we've got a a cabinet somewhere where we've got a site. We put our equipment in in the hot the system's hardened, because there's a big fence or it's a locked data center. But now we've got optical devices that are employed. Maybe in more public locations, there's a whole new series new optical technology that be could be collocated with other types of equipment as well. So security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "very important. Uh-uh, and maybe for some devices, we don't need a Netcon interface. We don't want the protocol state management of NetApp. We wanna use a rest as well. Next slide, please. So ASCII Art, thanks, Adrian. This is relatively straightforward. Diagram, but you can see with the traditional sort of HTN architecture on the left that And then expanding it, excuse me, showing sort of where, ACN FG and M sits. So we'll have interfaces, of course, to the existing, topology, instance, as well as now the ability to sort of query directly our inventory but also, as, a childhood just kind of highlight it may be some performance monitoring. Maybe there are additional tweaks that we can perform to optimize the signal in the optical space. You know, there may be some nonlinear effects where we wanna extract. You've got a cool piece of optical hardware. That's actually capable of measuring some, optical, physical, impairment. Now you can potentially export that information for other purposes. Next slide, please. So you'll see on the left, again, it's just you know, how we typically use ASTN. So the sort of sort of models that we have available within Ccamp and, of course, teas as well. Some ancillary, yang models, how they're used. We've got our sort of patented. It's not really patented, but it's our default optical topology that we use across the different use cases and examples in CCamp and teas where we've got sort of POI packet running over optical with an insta main link, but what you're seeing on the right is potentially the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "enhancement, you know, the the the the subtle, increase in terms of fine grain capability, new models that have been recently introduced and potentially will need additional models. So this would be kind of new work to solve maybe we need to prioritize what the use cases are for ACTN. FG And M, maybe it's, performance monitoring, maybe it's some configuration example for optical networks. Note sort of the operative word there. Only talked about articles so so far. But the red lines are kind of the HTNFG and M. And the black line is just still sort of full abstraction using some traditional, htn Next slide, please. Conclusion. Yes. So Is this a good idea? Do do we need this, or should we just continue to operate 2 completely distinct OSS silos, of software? Should we be looking to actually continue the deployment and use of ACTN but now sort of adding additional functionality that allows some of the sort of F caps, Colbert M Tozy, traditional interfaces to be used in the context of ACN. If so, what what are the use case is, you know, what what are the killer apps? What's missing? Can we use the existing models, it certainly, yes, but there are some gaps. What will the new models look like, obviously, we want to augment as much as possible. We don't want to sort of keep re reinventing. I I need to stop. So I'll stop. Questions? So everyone agrees. The bus is gonna be in reach Yeah. To move on to the next presentation."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "So is the so personally, I think this is really useful is share. Was it? Even more. But, So Is there a reason why you did this just for optical and not, generic to cover, to cover everything. Because I'm lazy. Okay. And and That's a good answer. It kills the discussion. Okay. Next question. Hi, Scott Mansfield, Erickson. So a an observation. I think 1 well, 2 observations. 1, This is a good idea. Because we have to stop talking about M Tozzi And Corporate at some point. So but the, the other comment is that something that we're seeing in passive optical equipment and topology. Is that there is a massive explosion in the amount of instances that you need in order to support a topology. So I would just put it out there that, yeah, I would just put it out there that, will be we'll be watching, but we'll also be telling the, our passive optical folks to look at this and to evaluate to make sure that we don't have any issues with swinging signs. We don't have any issues with the bloat of instances or have some way to catch the instances or some way to organize them in an interesting way so that, this will function efficiently. This could be a binary answer, but can you tell me the difference between an alarm and an an and a problem. An alarm and instance and a problem? Yes. Good. Gonna come and talk to you again because Thank you. Yeah. Yes. I have a comment on this Volley for optical."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "I think this just belongs to some what I would say as our of gray area because in optical networks, we have multiple layers. 1, and we usually find as generic as possible. But, so this most of this work is really generic, but in practice, I wonder whether it's going we use the outside of the optical transport networks for layer 2, layer 3, So is this qualified generic or the college specific or something in between. This was much more elaborative than, because I'm lazy. This is this is a good answer. Yeah. Find out Alright. I'm from Maui, from Future. I'm just trying to point out, since you talk about, like, extending the work to outside the scope of transport, also I Right. Right. And Scott mentioned about the passive I'm not. networks. I wanted to say, like, in BBF, we are also doing having the same effort and trying to create the models that actually align, try to align with IETF we have also the same concept for technology and inventory. And where we will be to developing all of the, management capabilities, So That's Okay. That's the other effort that as a as far as I'm involved. I mean, the more people organizations use IETF, the the better. Right? So Okay. It's a consideration. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Jun. Hello, everyone. Jeremy from a ranch on behalf of math. Colder. Okay. So this is a refresh of the comment I've been already presenting in the past. The idea here on slides to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:03",
    "text": "presenting after Sergio who mentioned the transponder mode concept about the optical impairment draft because the idea here is to fill a gap that has been identified on our side between the capabilities that we are describing in the young module about optical improvements, namely here the transponder mode and to fill the gap that we see in the LSPT signaling protocol, because as far as we know, there is no standard way to carry that information in existing RSVP specifications. So we wanted to get it covered and make sure that we have the the the full tool set to cover this various for, concept in the signaling, protocol from JMPLSuit. So, we are tackle 2 main or we have split the program in twos, 2 suitcases in the document. One is the usual single administrative domain where the transponder is part of the the optical line. On the other one, the second one, is the case where the transponder may be the transceiver may be out of the, optical line, domain, the, of, usually, call, alien case. On the idea that we are proposing here is suitable to both cases. So we we believe that using a single, or common attention to the protocol, enables the protocol to cases. So we're happy with that, and this is what we propose here. More in details. We'll also reuse the the the idea that young module draft,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:04",
    "text": "well, maybe a detailed later. And we are able to works, the more that are specified in a per, entity way or the explicit mode that they create, detailed set of parameters, using different encodings, of course, but, both approaches that were described within opticon impairment draft are also encompassed here. Can we move to this? So roughly the the solution principle. We consider that the knowledge of the optical, resource routing on wireless allocation is on the optical line. So whether a transponder is in the optical line or outside, the optical line is in charge of the competition, whether it's embedded or external using a a controller or PC or whatever. That's out of the scope of the document. But the the signaling here as to mode of carrying the the mode. Is there it known at the beginning because we start at the the edge of the optical line. And the mode is already selected on its carried towards the other end, the other end transceiver. Or the mode is unknown at the starting consumer on its allocated downstream with the the edge, within the the age of the the vertical line, we provide the means in the signaling protocol to create this information and make sure that there is origination between both end transceivers at the h at the end of the signaling session. The optical line between them. Next place. So, back to the details,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "we try to to follow what has been defined in the optical impairment, young modules, So there is a way to carry, compact opaque identifier referring to the transceiver mode, which is quite efficient and, come on the way to point to a mild associate to the transceiver without giving too much detail that maybe is there complex to specify at identify or agree on in case of, multi vendor environments. So this is, pretty easy way to to identify your mode on it is aligned with one of the options that are available from the optical, young module. If optical implement your module. The other way, yeah, the next place. Yeah. I was not sure. Sorry. Next time I take the picker. Only the way is also porting, the explicit mode also may in the young module draft. Where we can carry some detailed parameters so it can be quite long list of attributes depending on what really need to specify, to describe, or given model within a transceiver. So the idea was to, add some subtilties that may be, adjusted or, Reason of this that may be, incrementally pivoting on the number of parameters we want to convey. So the proposal here that maybe discuss with the wonky root. Of course, the proposal here is to start with, a base set of parameters that are part of the initial TLDs and then add some other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "route that are specified was in the, optical impairment draft has optional subtile these on make to to the signaling protocol able to carry any of them using the appropriate sertail is that could be, included depending on how we want to specify explicitly a transceiver mode. Using the signal in protocol. Next place. So quick summary on the changes with respect to the previous session at previously, presented. So the main change is about set of subtailies, beef for, after my previous presentation, I got feedback that he wasn't clear about my I wasn't clear about my intent here. So it wasn't obvious to everyone that we weren't trying to define any new optical modeling of the parameter sets. Here, we are just reusing what is defined is some working with the command within, within CCamp. So the idea was to clarify that point we don't want to propose a new modeling at all. We want to be able to carry what is defined from existing reference optical implement documents and carry them within the existing signal protocol without trying to propose any other way to to to to model the the optical attributes, of course. So we felt that it was, a fair comment to us, it's been clear from day 1, but maybe it wasn't clear enough when I presented last time. So we wanted to make sure that it is well understood now. The idea is to remain consistent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "with existing working group documents on especially once the optical impairment draft becomes ROC on the receiving stable. It will be the referenced on the list of attributes to be included in the subtleties within the ARZIPT extension here. So the idea is to keep that target, in mind, I'm not specify any alternate way to do it. There are some minor changes with respect to editorial stuff. So I think we need to go over them. Next place. So the next steps, as I just said, keep the alignment. It's part of the thing, initial work, and we want to make sure it will remain part the target. Keep alignment on existing, work within CCOM are not to be an alternate pass on what are the expected optical attribute there. So if working group agrees to go that way, we have to be be more specific in the description within the draft on how to conquer the subtotal is. This is not a a very, complicated issue to address to to drill in the draft. So it's a matter of taking some time to write them down, but Nothing complicated at all. So based on that, I'd be happy to know if the working group is interested in in this work, if adoption could be considered at some point. Thank you. I see how, ma'am. You you needed to be brave to proposing our SPPT drafting the younger era. Yeah. You know, I'm quite old now. Well, I'd like to be brave sometimes. while, Yeah. Now taking his question. Do you want all the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "The 4 issue on to your chair here. Yes. Thank you. Naomi speaking from Bobby. Yeah, we are quite excited to see this work as a complementary or as a harmonization with, young models. For the impairment. But I'm trying to clarify the scope ops work a little bit causing the problem safety space you'll see this is more focusing on the signaling, but actually a lot of capabilities is more, more prepared in advanced stuff. That means it can be also a routing problem, say, before the signaling is done. We got everything prepared. So Should we also consider that in the scope of this document? Not of this document, but you're right that it will also imply maybe to revised the all the SPF document also associated to that kind of approach. And it would make sense to make it consistent to the exist thing young module about optical impairment and see how we could accommodate that into OSPS. So I agree that it would be consistent if we want to go that way. So the idea of the document is just to deal with the LSPT part, but I agree that USBF part would make sense as well My car on my EDMP part as well. But Okay. Then my taking from the answer is the dictionary is already over there, but we need to upgrade our hardware to put in the protocol set Yeah. All fair. Yep. Yeah. Yeah, so I have the same questions I mean, basically, if it's a pro if it's a if it's if it's extension to exchange, transceiver information between the, the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "transceiver and the, line system, then I think OSP would be the best place to put the extension. So for the RSVP path message. Do you intend to send it end to end or just between the two, between the transceivers and the the the edge of the line system. The idea was to carry it end to end to enable Okay. Both transceiver to check that there are enabling on configuring the same mode consistently at each end of the web links. Okay. The idea was to carry heat bijectionary from one end to the other end. So I think it's clearly explained in the draft itself. Maybe I was a bit to summarize there and and today's presentation. want to go over the draft itself, Just wanted to make sure. But if you I'm happy to talk to you, go into the details on improve it if you feel that Sure. She's in prayer. And one additional question to this one of the slides, if you can scroll back to the Oh, it's, steel polling. The the, yeah, this one. So basically, you said there are some feuds could you some chain of changes that you could send back configuration from the line to the transceiver. Which to me means, like, you could actually perform the configuration part of the work. From the line system to the transceiver. Right? Yep. It's part of the Egyptian support or the oceans supported by the draft. In case the web links and power and stuff allocation happens the line system. Only considers the the is outside. Then we use a specific cut point to say, I'm blind and don't know what to use. It's on the ResV message that the transceiver gets the information about the label. So for the Webex or also for the mode."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "Right. So this means that we will have a consistent controller or and, a control plane that can coordinate configuration into end. That's why for us, it really matters that it's consistent because that could be, used in environment while you have some extra or centralized controller supporting some of the future while discussing you within young models, I'm down to the NEs. We might be using gene PRS on Yeah. There is no, opposition between them. So We really want them to be consistent with with each other. Okay. Thank you You're welcome. Alright. That refresh Well, Well, the name is host the logistic issues. I'm pretty sure that most of the interested folks attended the site meeting yesterday. So I believe this this and the next one side. Don't think they will have anything new so far at the moment. We already had 1 hour a half meeting yesterday."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "We we can finish the meeting right now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, we still I think we still need to talk more to each channel. Before we start, we are at the last block, the last topic, of the presentation today, which is all about, accretient pluggables as we said on the mailing list, Fatile, Luis, and I will not be acting as chair for this draft, sir, which because we are heavily involved, in, in all of them, So in order to have a maximum, transparency and fairness, with each, each document that we decided to step down as chair for this, for these documents. And the Julian will be will be acting, volunteer that will be acting as chair for for this document. Is it preferred? Okay, Jessica. Please Okay. So so here, what we are basically talking about is that the, you know, that the IP routers, will will we'll start to have soon the new technology about coherent pluggables and we need to be able to manage the whole solution And in order to that, we are with the safe. Putting the this management in the context of the HTTPN. Okay. So what we want is to be able to a use continue using existing frameworks here. So you got the pointer to the apparent draft the your applicability, was for this overlayest scenario in which the the truss the responders are the capital. Okay. So you had the the routers with gray interfaces. And the optical separated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "from here, what we want to do is to create at least to to document. Set of use cases, that operators required, okay, for this type of management And try to guide, okay, which are the the junks that need to be used in the control architecture. And also include the best one. So if you can move forward, we can go to the to the relations with, as we mentioned, the, as I can say, the the parent wanted to go the what is the relation of this work with other works. So the current document or the parent framework is the CDN framework, and and within the SCTM framework, Pocket Obiroptical, that it's in in this, and the area what it discovered is mainly the mentor you, okay, I can know what is that in my network, be able to provision the service, and discover the topology. And also also combined with the, service part. So even we can say, Hey, I want a layer 3 VPN, and trigger all the infrastructure creation from there. Also separated work that was done in in this for the generation students, also that included what happens when there is failures when when there's the radiation, and involve the coordination of the IP and the. Yes. And then now which is the point where we are now, is the particular case, where? The routers instead of just being rather that take care of layer 2 and layer 3, they also need to little bit, take care of the layer 1 and layer 0 and collaborate with the rest of the world. So go to the next one. So here, which are the extensors that we are targeting? So, yeah, basically for this particular line of work, turning to scenarios. The first one is very simple. It's just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "the optical infrastructure is is dedicated. So that it's point to point connection between the routers So, they optical infrastructure where they are going, whether it's responder and some amplifiers. Is not shared with the other coherent channels of optical or for their mix. It is used for the, especially used for the low power system. And it's short distances the second scenario, what I think is the more complex one and the, which is where we have more motivate is where we are, reducing the infrastructure Okay? We have Metro reading and optical networks and over them, we will carry our coherent signals coming from the the transceivers, whether they are from the same vendor as the line the other cyber gated And also now the new player comes into town, that is the the router that also send their lack of signals over that. In this one. So this is so this is what we need to coordinate also with the line system. And here, the, or how the industry ambitions to go is not to to replace. And to come get rid of transponders in the network. No. It will be, that's progressively the worst we some connection that the band from the router's hand, the rest will be done from the reply try on next slide, please. So what are the the requirements? I think they start the requirement that we went through Yesterday in the in the site meeting. So the higher the top priority number 1 requirement of the operator it is about having the end to end visibility of of what is happening. Okay. So and as part of this into ambiguity to see from layer. 3. 3. There too. And the optical channel."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "What is what is happening what we need is to be able to No. Okay. Are the connectivity? Between the router and the and the network, be able to discover the whole topology, both the optical and IP and to be able to do the end to end the performance and especially the, end to end the alarm correlation. Okay? So so we know that, so we can know that, when some failure is happening in some part of the optical. Is the routers that are affected, etcetera. Okay. So case. Number 1, end to end this building. And then the rest are Okay. So at the end, we can perfect relief with just some manual configuration of the of the router just enter just in program the the frequency program, they are the the power, and then let it let it operate. Get So next one would be the bond of the service provisioning, Okay. Perfectly fine. Then combine not only the the end optical, but IP optical. This is very aligned with the what was already done in in POI. So in the end, there will be provisioning in IP, IP links, also extending logs also, this is similar to, like, in not much changes here. So that he has to be able to draw to growing capacity. And and have a link that can grow in capacity, working in assurance, dilimetry, optical restoration you see, we've had it quite bottom down. In the, in the set of requirements. Can start without that. And then go to maintenance operation. So I think we have some questions here. Yeah. So this is Alex Franco. Just a question. Do we envision this work going further, to the microwave domain, for example, where you keep it just optical. Sloating out. Think it's just just optical, but I mean, I mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "unless at some point, the microwave device also starts having the pluggable insight with my my my defensible, okay, that the account that we are talking about coherent plug. I will show you the the output is expected to be in the order of 100 from 100 to 400 and beyond. So I don't know if the capacities are matching. If you expect that the microwave devices also become multi layer devices. So if so, It will be it will be included. Thanks. Thanks. Sure. Dustin, Okay. There is also a year you want take it now at the end of the Oh, Just a quick clarification. You said enter an alarm correlation at the MDSC. Whereas for, you are talking about IP and optical correlation that needs to be done at the end DSC, but for for optical between pluggable and and and the OLS I think it could be dump after the optical PNC option 1, 3. Yeah. May maybe we can leave out with with better what what we need is their the correlation, IP and optical, and also Only only optical, but what we need to know is what what what is happening. In the in in our network and when something happens, the the the the full picture includes the the router. Measure Probably we needed to define also what the end to end means. And and it's optical or is that when the and when now it starts in the AP. So that's Now sorry. It's the the new guy came into town. So, no, you cannot separate, like, the draft on the report. So just just to go quickly through the next slide, just to not not enter into a detail, we know we have the in the track, we are presenting to to working with this one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "with the requirements we are Okay? I think just just to because I think how much time do we Yeah. Probably if you're you should keep if you're closing 1 minute, do we leave a other positions. Yes. We have just the the the 2 options. Once we everything goes through the the the country is the 1 only one controlling, and then another option at this, the I the wreath and the read information goes to the optical controller. So the optical controller can do the end to end visualization monitoring letter of the optical pardon that the optical is done. At the hierarchical level. All of this is aligned with the STT and frameworkitecture. And what we want is to be able to 2, progress here that if you go to the Russian slide, just to think it would be present animation is this. Just a reminder, of the of the of the 2 of the 2 options presented in the draft and wire we think that the let's say, the main, the main issue that we want to avoid is having the the the IP controller with the the IP device controlled by multiple controllers. That's the main challenge here. That we have and here, the but we want to keep working is with with operators. Keep prioritizing the use cases, keeping changing the the that the requirements are clear and address some some cases, for example, like the end to end format into a for relay there are correlation that we're not in this draft, maybe we need to expand it and keep getting feedback and keep collaborating. So Thank you, Felicia. We'll have time for the and kiosk car. No other question from the room. Well, Before you leave, Oscar, I just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "wanted to say that, contrary to your introduction, I believe that the meeting yesterday, even if he didn't bring any conclusion was pretty. Useful at least to me, because I realized that there was probably some misunderstanding, too much dependency on what's coming from other work out of the So after thinking about it, I feel that, this document, which is infomercial is here on the purpose to sculpt the work of the upcoming standard truck specification that the group put on the later down the road. So, Based on that, I believe that the picture use using to depict option 2, meaning the NBI towards the the the the NE, the single NBI, is enough to specify unscoke the work. Everything in the isn't there. So my first take would be drop option along from there. But I'm also maybe my neighbor will disagree. So considering that You may want to also talk to people outside of the IETF with these documents. I think a trade off could be to consider mentioning the obvious in an appendix, meaning that the multiple NBI options. It's just this particular use case of the default one. So you may include it in the to teach people out of UTF that Obviously, if you want to talk to multiple controllers from there, It's part of the base architecture, but I believe that you should be bring more focus on the proposed scope from the draft. Which is infomercial. Clarify the body of the documents. Maybe had some small pieces into appendix, and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "Move on. And you also have some other work to do from Loyo laser slides. So I still agree. You should consider them. Thanks. It seems that Adrian has Adrian is coming to the mic, I guess. Thanks, Adrian Farrell. I I I think I like what Julian just said, which it sounds like the the side meeting was productive, and there may be scope for a little bit more work pushing that to see what can be merged so we don't have to throw out options. We can pull everything. I had a question for Oscar on the operator requirements, He didn't mention security, and I just wonder yeah, do do the the operator is not really care? Just we we We men we mentioned yes we mentioned yesterday that it is, it needed to be included, but that it was not in that, in that, in the first thing that we needed to solve in this IP optical, let me say that it was in in one of the, let's say, influencers of having these options Social Security there. So maybe we didn't cited properly, but it was, like, more in the in the area. We would definitely include security. Yeah. There. Don't forget it in your work. Good morning. My name is. From Sienna on the behalf of Carter, the the second draft in the area of the, optical blog about will be presented here? So the fur the this portion of that is, this is slide deck has been presented yesterday at the site meeting that we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "The first two slides, it's showing the general background to make that we are talking about the same thing And as we go through the the slides, I will show the the demonstrate what has been done not and what is proposed. And at the end, we need to make a decision together, you know, what is the overall architecture and proposal for the from the CCAM should be. So when we talk about blog about the right hand side, the left hand side shows a router 2 routers or 1 or 2. They are connected together. From the router perspective, this is just an IP link. There is very simple. From the underlay perspective, if we go with the traditional architecture, we will have a dark fiber connected transponder connected to the photonic lung system. So this is a traditional way to basically the carryover IP over DWD. On the right hand side, if you take the transponder and gray optics and smoosh them together and put inside the router. Basically, it becomes that logable, coherent log, optical bloggables, which At this point, from the IP perspective, the paradigm is exactly the same. There is an IP link between 2 routers, But from the underlay, there is a difference. And this is a whole idea that At this point, IP physically has 2 characteristic IPM for Tony. And this is the idea that we wanna address on the right hand. So what is the best way to control the network on the right hand side. It used to be the separate controller on the left hand side, but now it's not the case anymore. So Having said that, it is also important to consider that we are not talking about either or but rather complete. Another word, I extended the picture in the previous one between hour and hour 2. I either 2 or more router at the bottom or 3 and or 4, and now they are connected through the transponder. So in other words,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "as we go forward, the architecture that we have to have at CCAP should address a network of the IP routers connected through pluggables, rodents, and responders. And all of them should be addressed. We cannot have a solution to control pluggable have another solution transformed because the reality the network has all of them together. So it's not either or And this is very important to consider if you are just talking about the network with pluggables, the solution is completely different. If it is only transponder different, But when together, we have to make sure the other that. So having these 2 as a background architecture sequam addresses, as Oscar mentioned, there is one draft, the draft that Oscar mentioned previously, there are so called 2 options. Option 1, option 2. So there are optical dome There is, packet domain And there are 2 controllers, and there is a controller or proxy or orchestrator at the time to just control the whole ecosystem. Option 1 is giving the ability Let's be very clear about the configuration and assurance. From the configuration perspective, nothing changed. Router configured everything inside the router, including pluggables. However, from the perspective of the assurance now we have an ability to get this information to optical controller. So with this one, this, optical services that we used to have from Transwonder to responder now is from pluggable to pluggable with this option definitely, the optical controller cannot do that in die the directly anymore. If I wanna create that pluggable to plug configuration, I have to do pluggable through the proxy, which is Northwell, and also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:03",
    "text": "the, optical, network can be controlled. So in other words, up to your control doesn't have that view that used to have from the pluggable to pluggable from transfer and to transfer. But from the assurance, it seems that it's doing it because we are getting the read only data. However, option 2 is very strict. Everything inside the router controlled by the the IP controller, everything inside the opticon network. With the optical controller. With this architecture. Again, that service that used to have from transformer to transponder, right now is neither configurable from the optical controller and no that we can assure and get the telemetry from them. So everything should happen through the north proxy. So these are true valid options. They have their own merit, and this is the whole idea of option option means that you as an operator, think which one is the best, and you, yeah, go through that. So having said that, our draft is a new draft that we have. Contains tree distinct characteristic or area. One is regardless of which option you want to do an operator. We have a set of requirements definitely as we go forward. We can combine this whatever, Oscar mentioned as a use case for use, Cormer. We It started a group of the requirements. Just think about when you want to have the control network that we define, you have considered this requirements, regardless of the which option you and you pick your option, which would best fit you. The second area of the draft, we are explicitly defining a 3rd option option 3 And last but not least, we mentioning the clear demarcation between the optical and packet, you know, functions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "So to this end, this is option 3. Is exactly the same as before. The only difference here is now optical controller has read, write, own access to the pluggables. In other words, from the previous, I'm sorry. Were you wearing off those time? Could you wrap up quickly, please. Yep. So in this case, we are introducing this, read right access to the pluggables. With this one, we can have the both configuration assurance from one entity since I don't have time to go through more data, One thing which is important is the red box that I put here. There are sometimes the the about the access of a 2 different interfaces to a single note for the different perspective of the young tree. There is an very well known RFC and the net 1, net comp that gives you the access to control that access is important to consider that. These are the group of requirements that we have, and I selectively put some of them here. But again, since we don't have time, these are the requirements that very generic has nothing to do with any of those option. And last but not least, the idea of the the very second line this option is complementing option 12, and it's very important to These are options and complimenting. And from that aspect, there are two proposals that we can go the from now and either of this solution is acceptable, potential, that accept the solution. The from the CCAM perspective and then put them in red, One solution is there are 2 drafts combine it to to the graph as a loan draft. The simple, the view of the solution 1. Solution too, for some reason, if you don't wanna go with that, we can have a umbrella. A framework requirement document as a draft from there, we can point to too draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "Which one is auction 12. Other one is options. Oh, and I'm afraid we need to stop here because there is one remaining on the agenda. So I have some commands. I will send him And then on the list, if there are other people in the room who have question comments, please used a mailing list. I'll do the same on my Okay. Thank you very much. Thanks. Hello. How are you? Good morning. I'm I'm sorry that I couldn't couldn't stay on-site. I'll I'll try to be very quick. With This presentation now. Can you can you hear me alright? Yes. Yeah. Okay. Basically, Paul Dolan and I, we, we've been looking at enter are the topics we just discussed in the last two, in the last two, presentations and, and also in the, in the session yesterday. And we you do think that Done. The operational and security con security topics that to relate to view world use cases of of packet of immigration are not really property address. In the, in the work we've done so far. And if you move to the next page, then I tried to be very quick. You see in discussion of, of these, of these different approaches to control, to of the different control architectures that people are using to control plugins in your routers. Says. And and those different approaches are being discussed in different organizations. In, not just in IETF, but also in telecom infrastructure, in open ROADM, in, And sometimes in scientific work, and And, basically,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:02",
    "text": "besides basically, all of them concern not the question who decides on, certain packet functionality or desire takes decisions on certain optical functionality, though, that that works between optical and controllers are actually very clear. All of these, all of these different approaches actually govern, how does the information get to the pluggable? How do you write information to clockable in the end. Right? And how does information from a pluggable get to an optical controller that needs to know about that specific optical information. So you have as options, you have what was discussed, which is Montreal solution 1, which basically involves a read access from an optical controller to to to to to a router, then there's a central solution 2, which has all the information being funneled via packet and hierarchical controller to an optical controller And then there's the the solution presented just now, which allows read and write us to, to a router from an optical controller. I've added a fourth one, which is also out there in the market, which has actually been used also at lower rates in the past, which is that certain optical parameters very selectively can be set through host independent management, for example, through an inbound controlled channel, which allows you to set a wavelength of a pluggable automatically from around. So All of these options exist, and I think all of these options also are are deployed somewhere, So, and they're being discussed in in many different organizations. As a result of that, you move to the last page, I'm trying to be very quick for so sorry for that. So with with with you're proposing is that we either combine the 2 trusts presented earlier or perhaps also create a framework document, framework document that actually actually treats with, with the overall view of these different approaches. You think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:04",
    "text": "that operational considerations need to, to be more, more more prominent in this in in this discussion. We just we started to look at a few of those yesterday in the session, which I found very food for. And we need a mandatory security section in this. Alright. Basically, I think that of the speakers today said that as well. Thing that we would like to add is that we, we have to liaise to the other organizations also working on topics, And, And we we should liaise with IF specifically because there's some, some work ongoing in the error management of pluggables and routers. And specifically, they look at the management of smart, portable because the functionalities that probables have are increasing. We need to be ready for that in in what we define. You become can't do something looking backwards. We have to be ready for for new functionalities to plug interfaces we provide. Thank you. Any Thank you, Ralph. Questions on this? Since we have people still in the room, if someone wants to raise a question, I think. We can accommodate 1 Otherwise, we will end here. I just want you to add that you mentioned the program of who decides, which is true. But to me, the problem is double. We need to identify an agree before considering combining documents who decides, who the states, after within the NEs, The answer to the those two questions may be different. And this is where we need to to to dive to make sure that we are progressing in a consistent manner. So thank you. You for this, sir. Okay. That's it. Thanks a lot. Bye."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:05",
    "text": "Thank you for your interest."
  }
]
