[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "good morning everybody can you hear me yes we can good morning eve you're a bit quiet well that might be my equal volume yeah it might be the volume adjusting how's that that's great is it coming up in volume great well welcome everyone um particularly those of you who might be in time zones where this is an unusual hour to be awake and speaking um welcome to the working group um that's focused on reliable and available wireless otherwise known as raw i'm eve schuler and um who you heard before was my co-chair rick taylor and um it's tuesday november 9th and this is the idf 112. we're going to get going now if you could advance the slide but one slide i'd like to just review a few items that we should note well in the tradition of the ietf and start out by stating that you know there's a whole uh collection of uh policies that the ietf has established and um this basically uh will review some of them at a high level and most importantly there are you know policies on whole range of top topics here and [Music] of course by participating in the ietf you agree to follow these processes and policies that have been laid out one that's quite important is of course"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "if you are aware of any ietf contribution that's covered by patents or patent applications owned or controlled by you or your sponsor that that's a quite important topic in fact to disclose earlier than later and the ietf goes to great lengths to identify what is meant by a contribution and what is meant by participation and as a participant in our attendee to an ietf activity you also acknowledge that um any written audio video and photographic records or communications of meetings are going to be made public yet on the on the other hand all of your personal information that you provide will be handled according to the privacy policies of the ietf and um i i personally believe that this last bullet is perhaps the most important item to note well is that we really encourage participants and attendees to agree to be respectful to one another as part of this community of course if you have any questions there uh we have links included in our slides um of course since covid uh began we have uh been conducting these meetings strictly online and just to remind you that these sessions are recorded this one as well and that um uh you know once you basically um uh begin speaking and uh participating that in some ways you have agreed to uh you know once you unmute your mic and or and or turn on your video that that you um are in agreement with the policies of the itf for these meetings please keep your audio muted and your video off when you're not presenting or speaking and when you're speaking please introduce yourself although it's lovely to see that meat echo does"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "integrate identify identification underneath your video and underneath your audio when you are participating so let's get to the next slide as you can see there are a whole range of policies should you have any questions and i definitely encourage you if you have not read them before to uh investigate them at some point sooner than later there's an ombudsman for the ietf and of course as working group chairs and ads we also are happy to advise next slide you are here so you must have figured out how to use meat echo but if not maybe you've consulted these slides the uh i think how you had it before was a little better in terms of the presentation right yeah thank you very much um the the great news also is meat echo um integrates not only the blue sheets but additionally um the chat or what used to be uh considered you know i am or jabber um and so uh we encourage you to make use of that capability um the other uh nice attribute is that there are live minutes uh meaning that they are shared and we encourage you to collaborate in fact if there is someone who would like to offer their services to lead the minute taking we would welcome hearing from you um i'll just pause here for a moment to see if there's somebody who would like like the honors i will add at this point that normally or up until this point uh ethan has always done a fantastic job of doing that and unfortunately he can't make it this time so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "don't expect the vast quality good quality minutes that we've had previously unless you're willing to uh to help create them um and i'm sure you will do as fabulous a job but yes we have been really blessed so um if ethan is on uh we just uh our gratitude for many sessions of itf note-taking um and of course so if you uh click on the uh cody md integrated i'm trying to see there it is it's the fourth button at the top it's integrated note-taking tool along the top banner um you can switch to to the view and edit away please our mailing list is raw at itf.org and our meeting materials many of which are also available through the tool here but you can get to them and click through on the link shown here below next slide we have a light agenda this session but we have quite a few items coming to maturation quite a few documents the we will hear from pascal both about the technologies draft and the architecture draft and followed by a draft that he has recently submitted an individual contribution uh which has uh aired in the debt net working group on um ipv6 options and um we will hear a summary of the latest changes uh to the use cases document by carlos bernardos and um followed by an update on ldac's document by niels morrow and hopefully we'll have quite a bit of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "time for open mic over to you rick okay so um we as eve said we've got a bunch of documents that are um now their status has changed since uh the ietf111 so uh ldax is currently in the iesg review and i know some edits have been requested and i know the author team has made some changes so uh niels will go through hopefully some of the changes and why they were made and whether they were substantive or not i don't believe they were hence we are still in iesg review obviously for those of you less familiar with uh the way a document moves through a working group and through into the iesg and off to become an rfc eventually editorial changes uh requests for comment from uh to come out of the iesg review are normally handled at that stage if there is a substantive problem that means the document actually needs to to really go back to be chewed over by the working group then it will drop back to being a normal working group document but as we understand it at the moment um the comments reviewed as part of the comments received as part of the isg review for ldx have been uh clarification or minor updates when niels if you have not read the latest update of the ldx document please pay attention to nielsen's presentation about what has changed if you as a member of the working group think that the change is substantive and needs to be um properly uh looked at by the working group that is your chance really to raise that at the mic and say and say otherwise the working group documents we have at the moment is in no particular order the architecture document which pascal's going to talk about oam support for raw technologies and the use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "document they are still not ready for isg unless the author team wishes to to raise that currently again that is a working group decision about whether it's ready for review and that obviously that decision will be taken to the list but it's worth making sure that you have read the latest drafts if any of those have been updated uh also we have after iet after the last ietf meeting we have adopted the industrial requirements uh personal draft from sofia router sorry ruta sophia and her team that document has yet to be renamed but it has been uh officially adopted uh when it's renamed it will be draft ietf raw industrial requirements where there was some discussion about uh crossover between that document and the use cases document uh some content may boil off into use cases uh there may be some flow in the other direction as well but that's the point of a working group document so that's that's perfectly normal um carlos bernardo still has his mech and his joint selection raw mech drafts which uh as of the last ietf he was still working on um i'm not sure if there's been any updates i'm sure carlos can answer that annoyingly while presenting i can't see the jabber chat in case carl eve shout if someone is if carlos has got a comment about that but otherwise we're we're not really looking at these at the moment because uh carlos is still working on them as far as i'm aware so um this is the status of the milestones as they stood at the last ietf meeting yeah i accidentally removed carlos from the from the meeting queue please put yourself back in that was not my intent yes um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "and now i'm uh trying to figure out oh here you are um go ahead carlos yeah so on the on the on the individual drafts i'm still working on some new additions and i in any case i would appreciate if any any member from the working group can provide some feedback of course that will be greatly appreciated but you're not asking for working group adoption yet do you still want to do a little bit more personal work on it first is that right yes okay that's fine that's fine um so the the milestones as they stood at the last ietf look like this uh on the screen so um everything green uh actually were new additions to the milestones um from what stood before the last ietf meeting uh the little ticks obviously mean we've met that milestone which is great um the ones with a red date are things which are slipping um either we haven't even created the document nobody has put forward a personal draft to even begin adoption for example the the last item on the list which is a charter item for an evaluation of existing itf tech and a gap analysis document um with good reason uh the other ones are dates we assigned at the last ietf thinking oh we might have this ready but obviously it is now november and they're not ready so uh one of the discussions i think it's probably worth having in the working group particularly as we um get a presentation on most of these documents is to discuss when we should set a tentative date for when we think these documents might be ready i understand it will be a guess"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "but a guess is better than having a milestone that is blatantly wrong um if you look at the milestones on the data tracker you'll see that uh some of uh there are more on this list than there are officially uh signed off by john scudder rad reason being is that john quite rightly looked at some of the dates proposed at the last ietf meeting uh and the current date and uh raised the question of whether we were being a bit ambitious or whether the dates were just unrealistic so i would like to think collectively we can answer his questions and if we can assign a slightly better estimate on when these documents are going to be expected to be ready then we can adjust the date on the milestone on the data tracker and john can hopefully click the accept button i don't think and john feel free to step forwards and tell us we're wrong but i don't think there's any question of whether the milestone is valid or not the question is whether we can achieve it at the date we assigned so the critical ones just to recap our the use cases the technologies the industrial requirements the architecture and uh the oam document so um we're not hearing about the industrial requirements because having spoken offline with the industrial requirements or the team they want to do a bit of work they've had a busy summer and haven't had a chance to to work much on it so [Music] in my opinion with my chair hat on i think it will be after the use cases document so if we can get a good date for the use cases document or a guess for a date for the use cases document i would be happy to add two three months to that and then say the industrial requirements document is probably ready at that point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um any comment from the floor on that as a as a way forwards just check the chat as well and john is saying that he does agree regarding the milestones yeah just spotted that brilliant thank you john so uh i'm clicking next in the wrong window sorry uh okay so uh pretty much on time um over to the presentations on drafts now i know pascal you've got a clash today and you are jumping between raw and somewhere else so um it's up to you to keep an eye on the time but please please please be aware of asking questions yeah it should be good don't worry i will be speaking on at best uh in 90 minutes well now it's more like an hour but i guess we have one part time okay so go ahead okay are you okay are you okay to present the slides or do you want me to you want i would prefer that you just call them if you don't mind no problem stop sharing that yeah oh this user interface confuses me at times um well otherwise i can bring them up as well okay so yes let's start by the architecture um please next slide so as you know this document uh covers two things by the title it has architecture and framework and that's kind of a a bit confusing because the architecture is something that you you do at the beginning here is what i want to build and your your other main directions and how it's going to work and the framework is more here is what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "we built and here are the components that we put together and how they are assembled and so the architecture piece is really something that you do ahead of time and the framework is more something you do whether at the end and because this document has both um it's very hard to say that we are going to ship it uh very early because we don't really know for instance the answers of how exactly oem is gonna work so if if really we we care about producing the architecture and uh shipping it uh early because as you said uh we should ship this month um then i was wondering if we would consider actually splitting into architecture on the one hand and framework which would we would deliver pretty much when we closed the working goal as you know here is what we did the result works there all the components here you know data came from here there that net and and here is how they assemble because i just don't see that we can shape architecture and framework you know before very late in the process so so that's basically a question to you rick and eve um just so looking looking at the charter i actually agree with you um because as you as you say the architecture has to to precede the uh the framework logically um and the charter as i read it and understand it is in this phase of the working group's lifetime we should be exploring uh the problem space uh defining what we see the problems to be analyzing the available technologies that exist within the ietf and at the link layers and um oh and that's pretty much it and and maybe the framework as a proposal of how we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "could proceed kind of covers the end of this working group cycle and would be a great starting point if when we recharter so if you don't mind splitting the document from a from a text perspective then it's already structured pretty much that way i already restructured at the previous publication to resize uh start with architecture and then put the framework as the second piece so splitting should be easy uh rather though the question really will be with lou uh you know lou wants to to to do some important changes and we'll have to see how luana can collaborate to to get make that happen uh following you know what lou wants to achieve but as we do that i mean splitting document is no big worry um the the other question will be how should i proceed should i just for instance cut it in two just like it stands today and and so consider that both documents are adopted or do i need to to [Music] restart the second half as a personal document very quickly before i let lou jump in i would i don't see a given that the working group kind of owns the the complete document i don't see any reason to reject the framework parts and push it back to you as a personal draft why not just keep it adopted it we seem to that's too much process i unless somebody think well even if somebody does think there's a problem uh it the text has already been adopted even if we split the text into two documents so right it seems like an unnecessary step i think we should assume it's already adopted um however i can see that there are a couple people in the queue um lou would you like to go ahead and comment you're a little low for me i think you said ask if i wanted a comment sorry yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "okay oh now you're great by the way um so just going to pascal's reference to the comments that i have i think these are comments not only from me but from others and so really would welcome if others would uh interested in joining helping get the text there but basically the root of the comment is is that the current architecture document is missing the cross layer optimization or multi-layer optimization that is covered in much of the teas work and the internet sort of traffic engineering principles where you can have cooperating network layers that don't that each do their own optimization as opposed to a single integrated optimization approach that's really important when you have one set of technology or one set of operators supporting another set of operators for example if we were running debt net over a 5g network we wouldn't necessarily expect unless you're the 5g operator that you would be able to have full access to the 5g network you know there was a liaison from what was it a year ago or more where the three gpe said here's here are the type of parameters you can expect across a 5g service interface um and and those would not facilitate or support this type of um raw architecture that's being shown here so it's really the comment that i made a while ago and i think resonated with others is we really need to bring in the concept of multi-layer um and part of that is supporting uh use of dlap to support that and if there's others who want to work on it i think we should you know start setting up some maybe calls so we can get some progress on this rather than just be held up by by me not doing the writing assignment that i said i would do which you know of course is not a good thing so i apologize for that uh that's it thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "can i react to this uh sure that's that's perfect i mean i've seen that that there is something that they they do very well uh on the case in the case of oam for instance they they have this periodic meeting uh where anybody can join so it doesn't look like a tiger team or something anybody can join but still it's a dedicated periodic meeting organized by that net so you see janos in particular attending the oaf one and and we do great progress and oem thanks to this organization so if you don't mind having raw um you know being shepherding this kind of activity as well for the cross layer or the architecture or the cross layer piece of the architecture i really think we could progress a lot more than you know the way we do it today okay so strongly with you yeah so that's definitely something the chairs can can arrange i mean we have the facility to set up uh interims are really cheap so being able to set up meet echo you know once every two three weeks or whatever a sprint needs to be um to just have a a quick focused meeting on how are we going in the right direction how are people doing that's something we can do really easily so um i will make a note and take an action sorry say again though i would suggest those be informal meetings rather than formal interims okay that's fine in working meetings okay so in which case we'll we'll take an action to try and set up a webex for for and and publish the the link on the um the webex or teams or zoom or whatever uh and publish the link on uh the mailing list so that it's open and it's and it's public it will we'll work out an elegant way of doing it luke good point but yes i think that the net group role models that very well and uh we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "should follow suit we have a couple others in the queue um abdul salam if you'd like to speak up please take the floor yeah good morning uh uh my suggestion is uh to not split it now the document this uh draft as adopted it's good to when we review it to be uh having the architecture and the frame uh framework together as we adopted it so actually it's also the second draft or the zero one so and and let's say if we get to draft number five or six we can then split yeah but now i think it's it's a good good stage that we see them together while reviewing them and it's already only 40 pages so i think it's it's okay we can do it together and then in the future maybe but it's to the working group to split if almost they agree to split and uh but i think for me i i don't agree now to to split the two documents yeah thank you thanks for signing that's a that's a good point um maybe if it's good particularly if if we're going to try and really get some cycles on this to just keep all the content together for now and then maybe prior to iesg remove one section i i i it's a it's a valid point thank you um not too late right because at some point we want to make sure that the documents uh in isolation are complete so if we want to keep them packaged together right now we can we can make two major sections you know and say this is the architecture this is the framework it's pretty much the way it's organized anyway but uh if we want to progress the architecture and focus on it um we don't want to get too much distracted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "by the framework piece so when we'll ask reviews and stuff and early reviews at that time the split must have happened because otherwise people will comment and on the whole thing and delay you know it's gonna it's gonna progress at the speed of the weakest link so if we separate them once we separate it will be much faster for the p stand that is you know priority and the other one will be stuck which is as expected okay everything when in fact we know we don't have the content for the framework for 2am we are missing okay so so can i make a request you you say that the the document is pretty much in two sections if if you if on the next revision you can put an explicit section break between uh the architecture and and the framework to pretty much say from now on is the framework this will go elsewhere and then then the splits can be made fairly quickly it's just to sort of do an interim step on there particularly if we start to have some some uh sort of uh focused meetings to talk about that document then yeah exactly i mean as soon as we have focused meetings we want to progress the architecture from that right because so as soon as we want to focus on that piece i mean the rest will be dead weight and actually i'm now arguing against abj salam's point if both documents are working group documents and available through the data tracker for review and comment then it's one click to move between one document and the other so so perhaps just keeping it in one document for convenience is is not as convenient as we think um okay thank you i have a i guess"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "two comments on the question so i i fully agree with the comment made by lou that that the the archers architecture should should follow the layering model and and and capable of supporting all the raw technologies we have in the in the in the raw technologies draft actually and i understand it's it's work to be done and i agree that um focus discussions could be it could be helpful moving it along and the other other one is it's a question actually i am a bit um uncertain on the aspects of the framework and the architecture because in my understanding of the charter and as you just explained rick i i fully agree that the working group would be developing solutions if and and when charters and it's sort of the exploration of technologies and what is available requirements and so on at this stage and i i don't know which one is more of a solution the framework or the architecture and i don't know if we split which what would be the order but both of them stepping into our solution and for now it's maybe better not to split as you just said or multiple people but i i even even if we wanted to split uh i am not sure on the order like so so i guess the one that is less of a solution would be first but yeah so from my perspective i think um we can argue about the meaning of the word framework and the meaning of the word architecture i think that the natural split for me is between um a high level description of an approach to solving it and the detailed solution proposal so anything which really looks at we will do this like this should probably be a later document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "uh and any text which says the problem to be solved could be done like this is probably the architecture framework um it's it's it's difficult and there's a lot of verbiage but splitting the proposal from the solution i think is a good way forward and exactly what i was trying to say at the very beginning here is what you want to do uh is what i'm used to calling the architecture is there is there are the big objects without really saying it's this draft or this rfc or anything like that whereas the framework really says here is how it works oh we made it work and we we pick uh this component here which happens to be rfc blah etc and we assemble them together and we set this flag in that message or whatever and that gives you the whole framework and how this thing works that that's my understanding and i mean since you were talking i mean we had the discussion recently at that net as well right and we seemed to be an agreement that framework was more i on the social side if that is people's understanding of the word framework then i am i am fine with that and i think this might also resolve one of the questions that appeared on the on the mailing list quite recently about whether the document should discuss technologies that are in progress in other sdos such as ieee or 3gpp where we know they are working on time-sensitive networking for 802.11 for example but it hasn't been standardized yet so should we refer to it or should we not because it's not a standard i think naturally that splits so in the architecture you one could say technologies at the link layer are being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "developed and examined which may enable this but in the framework document we need text which says to do this we use 802.11xy which has now been standard and standardized so we then solve the question of should we have it should we not have it in this document where architecture we can talk about the future and framework we talk about the fact as of now as of publishation and i think that might solve that problem um janos did you have a comment you've dropped out of the queue um i'm assuming no so go ahead absalom uh my understanding of framework and architecture actually both of them they solved the problem so it's uh mostly the architecture is more uh we can say like uh the hardware and the software usually software uses the hardware so the framework is above the architecture so anything in the architecture it will affect the framework but with not the the the way around so the framework comes after the architecture as it's in the title saying architecture and a slash framework so the framework comes after architecture and its solution both of them are important solutions for uh raw technologies uh yes i agree i think we are in agreement all of it collectively i think they're um obviously english isn't everyone's uh national language but i i think we can define our own meanings for this conversation and i think we are in agreement um so carry on pascal because i know you're watching the time um i'm still good i'm still good um so basically this is the slide which summarizes what we want to see in the architecture so far and so basically we we described that there are uh there is this what we call udaloop and it's not the term from itf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "it's really quite an old term which describes a loop which observes uh orient based on some previous knowledge and that would be the pc uh you know knowing the network and knowing the radios and making high-level decisions about structures this side which is basically the the per packet decision for which we instantiated this new carpet on the plc that will decide what we do with this packet to forward it in this wireless network and act which is really now okay the forwarding plane action and that's the use of the barrier functions so so we the architecture describes this this loop and um provides already some information so we don't have the cross layer but provides already information about what the psc does and and how it's seen that it will be operating uh it could be operating on the source node and the ingress in which case you need some form of quote-unquote source routing information in the back-end to to to do that what was this decided by the ingress along the path or it could be um more distributed decision in which case the pse or some functions of the pse have to be distributed inside the match so so we describe all that and at this level it's architecture if we say uh here is exactly we are going to use segment routing and we will have those bits then we will have made the decisions about exactly what can be done at each shop and that will be the framework in my book and then we uh described the the use of the the that net service plane and how we enrich uh what is typically do free off in that net to get pareo to get more uh timing and if we do this this kind of source routing information then the hits and controls that we will need to to have a you know as an extension to the death"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "net service there so we describe all they said that's the architecture piece next slide please so the the status has not changed since last atf we have not progressed on document the expectation is we would have time with lou to to progress and we already discussed that that it's not it does not happen but hopefully it will um we were wondering as well if there are any sections that could be missing and and so yes there is the use of dilip as we discussed um there might be uh high level discussions about encapsulations and that's where my other presentation of hope by heart destination option and source routing can can be appropriate and there was also the uh the work that jacob stein has introduced at that net and raw and everywhere uh about providing timing information in the bucket basically if this packet is scheduled then there could be some information as part of this segment routing source routing type of of information about where this packet should be in my network at which time so so when you follow the package you know if you're ahead of time delay blah blah blah so that can uh that can help pro deliver all the packets in the due window of time as opposed to to accelerate packets which are already in advance so so basically these are items that could be added to the to the document are there any other items sections that people in this course think are missing beyond the three and we can go back to meaningless but if something came out of mind of somebody then that could be discussed okay okay so well the two of the slides are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "very much that we we kind of uh improved quite a bit the the terminology and that was um thanks to the oem discussion in particular but also for for terms there is one thing that throws us as distinguished which is a bit less clear in the in the net architecture uh which is the distinction between the flow and the path um the flow is is basically in the water image the flow is the water and and the path is is the pipe and actually the cool thing about making the distinction is you can the pipe is the level at which we do networking and the pipe is the level at which you you decide uh what kind of processing uh every every molecule that goes through this pie has the same process so the process the process is per path not per flow meaning if you mix multiple flows in in a path then all the packets of all the flows will be subject to the same operations around the path and that that becomes useful when you when you want to either merge path i'm sorry merge flows uh into bigger flow big bigger pipes like i have those two pipes coming in that i want to merge them into a bigger pipe which is sized for both or when you you have this pipe where you want to put both a water flow but also something like oem to measure at that point if you if you do your forwarding logic based on the flow indication then you can't say i'm going to process this way in packets exactly the same way as the data packet because they don't appear to be coming on the same floor operating at the at the path level which is which is completely valid in the net architecture the testnet architecture says we are placing flows on path that's exactly what it's saying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "um if if we process if we understand and agree that we need to process things at the path level then we don't have this problem of merging things anymore it's just natural we operate at the path once the ingress has placed a certain flow on that path you know the flow will be processed as a member of that path and get to the egress of that path with with the same treatment as everybody else and all that so we it's it's a concept that we had in in in row since inception um at that net that has not been so well uh discussed at least in the case of ipv6 it's not really available and that's why i started this this hub by hop document that i will be discussing after but um for for this slide here uh yes we we have basically defined the flow and what we call the track by inheritance to previous work at the ietf the track being a special type of path that can fork and join you know i i've looked at the terminology of path at the atf and for for many groups a path has to be serial it's a then b then cmd it cannot be abcd or lthr and and maybe merge at a d and split again a path is not like that for for many working group including irtf path research so yeah i think using path is a bit misleading and so far in the architecture we use the dumb track which was really defined for for this next slide please and please review please review this this definition because you'll see the number of properties um now there's this concept of a subtract which is a subset of the track that will be used for a given packet and different packets which are placed on the same track uh might be due to pfc activity might be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "effectively placed on different subtracts now the a very quick question sorry isn't a sub track actually a path uh not necessarily because even a subtract is um it's it's still a track it's it can have multiple oh it can be split again okay it's it's a collection of paths and and really some of them super imposing on other ones i mean it's it's like if you look at just you think about a sausage or an egg right a knight you can have one path on top one path in the middle then you can have a nice path and so it's like four path with just an eight uh yeah it's it's some people also define the path as being uh you know the the experience of this packet whereas this packet being between a and b uh that's valid a was maintained as a single entity but with that net we we are doing things like network coding uh things like replication elimination and so it's even if you wanted to trace the path of a of a packet you realize that this concept is gone lou i see lou in the queue do you want to go ahead lou actually uh came in queued to answer your comment uh the i think what you're describing it matches well with the notion of protection paths um that's shown up in traffic engineering mpls uh net uh with pre-off um and it would be really interesting to see how it it differs from that uh have you looked at those that that prior work related protection restoration and trafficking one of the things the things i'm aware of are things like um plstp for instance where you you basically have two non-congruent paths it's the most usual thing i'm used to and those two are effectively path because there are it's either sequence"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "of bcd or sequence fth and then you basically decide to use the the plan b when the plan a uh shows issues uh and and in that case the the sequence of things are really path uh i would argue that with that net we already went beyond that concept because as soon as you do uh replication and then further elimination of a packet how can you say which path that packet has taken uh it's it's more it turns into quantum mechanics right the packet has been through both paths [Music] so but yes i mean if uh yeah i'm not sure i'm following but i think that might be a good discussion in these breakout meetings that we're going to start doing i agree we can talk about it there or almost thank you the problem is there is a lot of history with this term path and you just point out and so so a lot of readers who are not used to what we are doing might misunderstand the text if we use the top path and so we effectively have a concept of serial path where a packet comes in gets out same packet without a transformation and then forward it hop by half by half and we call that a segment and the track is actually a graph of segments okay next slide please yeah so so i mean that's it for for this architecture discussion i think we we did a lot of progress so we agree that we will split we agree that we have missing items i listed some i hope that the mailing list will come up with others and then we will have those informal meetings where we'll refine uh everything that is already in there plus you know what's missing and in particular we have this objective of cross layer and the delete uh discussion with with blue so i think we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "we have ample work in front of us so that's really good now associated to that we need to say oh what's what what now can be a reasonable date for this one so um currently we have said november this year which is obviously wrong ietf113 is march next year [Music] i don't think that will be ready for iesg review uh march next year um i think one more discussion in the it would be i would be very pleased if we can get to the state where at the next ietf the everyone involved in reviewing the current document submitting changes contributing joining the informal meetings is is happy and we can then present where we are and perhaps go for iesg review maybe may april what do people think is that too ambitious i mean if you if you do this if we really we do this bi-weekly or something [Music] and yeah i don't say we will be ready by next atf we'll not but but um doing lasko you know having the some discussions at next ietf and and and deciding to do last call at that time or soon after next time that looks doable i guess yeah we're okay a lot of good stuff in that document and if we're splitting out the framework then we are reducing some of the content as well so yes i will focus on the architecture so we will be faster okay i'm going to say may because that means we should be ready for last call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "that gives us maybe a month of last call and then [Music] so last call in march ietf last call ends mid april iesg review we start yeah so okay i'm going to say may because april i think the first of may so i'll say may for architecture and then we need to create a new entry for framework right yes we need to create a milestone for framework and a document for framework but i would say that is um late and i will wait way later yes you can you can say 2023 just to create an entry well close to me let's let's say november 2022 whoa yep let's be let's call it ambitious it's really because we have dependencies right i'm thinking about oem uh but it might be that the cross-layer story uh is a lot of work as well because we have to to review you know i don't i don't know how deep we can go um depending on which which technology we talk about yeah i also understand there's the dependencies on the oam the we so we have an item on the milestones which is the evaluation of existing the gap analysis document and i'm wondering whether we can address the gap analysis as actually the framework so no maybe not so the framework will define what we need and the gap analysis will define what exists and the combination of the two should give the gap um so those two need to be in lockstep so they they are mid-23 i think i'm just i'm terrible at estimating so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "i will i'm going to say mid 2023 for for those just for now i may i see it and at abdusalam you have a comment please go ahead yes uh i think uh deciding the time is better to be done on the list because it's not easy and also i will agree with the authors they are the most expert they can know the timing and everything said he i think we go for the what the authors say and then we can discuss on the list to to to make it uh easier to go forward thank you yeah okay so so i will say may for architecture because i think people think that sounds reasonable framework we can we can discuss it will be late later i think it is fine so uh i have a question pascal about the technologies draft you do have that next okay cool i was looking at my slides i can't find the slide for that because i have lost it if i fail to push them then i still have them on my desk so i can share if you don't can you share and and and push them afterwards and then then everyone can have a copy yeah i did not search them oh that's interesting okay i'm sorry it's okay so and just so you know uh this segment we're we're running pretty late we had a lot of uh extra time uh but uh i think we're about 20 minutes over for this section um and i know you disappear oh i've got them i've got them i found them it's powerpoint that's why i'll share sorry but normally they're automatically translated by the tool right when yeah this one this one did not it doesn't matter it doesn't matter i have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "it already there's something i don't know why why is this not why is this not appearing oh sorry i'm just now trying to make powerpoint behave uh there we go can you see i'd be quick on this one yeah could you can you see that could you make it bigger or because it's just a piece of green it's full screen on my machine yeah but the the slide itself is it's just a little bit of your screen is that better is that worse i'm trying to yes you should drag this you can also yeah that's better it's also normally a way to fold the top but that's okay okay um next to the question marked up right you must have a folding button which would basically allow you to hide the menu big difference okay so um this is drafted that's been there forever i did many groups which do the sort of thing we're doing like lp1 recently they tend to to basically document the technologies they're working on so as to provide you know a layman of uh what can be achieved with those technologies and in the case of raw we we can have selected wi-fi six and above uh 5g and above uh 1548 ch on which 16 has been operating and did a lot of work and this new technology airbags that we already discussed uh and that um niels will be talking about a bit later that's that's already passed last call so we basically collectively i mean this is a huge number of offers from all those technologies collectively and put together this this draft where we uh we provide pretty much the same level of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "information for each technology so people can get their mind um and what what can be achieved in particular whether they come from and what kind of deterministic properties can be achieved with those technologies so we've done that the next slide please and um the the recent the duck is very very stable we we we had this this review by rocco thank you so much welcome for this yeah where actually uh rocco went very very deep into uh the text and the exact details of how things are set to make sure they are really correct and then there was this discussion between rocco and dave and and really a lot of that was beyond me it was really really the details of what was done and how it was done so after you know the conclusion of that work um i'm really happy with with the content of the document in general uh also thanks to chatty for our sixtiesh uh text and uh also i did some realignment with the 60s architecture which is published as rfc now and the bottom line is um the now is when we should have submitted to asg and i agree that it's what we should do i mean i think we're ready for our goblet score and if we make it two weeks we can still deliver in time perfect so so this was the um i was rereading the comments on this and the comment that was really raised was whether we should discuss it's the uh discussing standards in progress in other sdos uh or so referring to you are talking about in that in that picture but that's really why it took place yeah yeah yeah it took place in here so my personal opinion is that i i think it's perfectly valid to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "text that says other sdos are working on this problem um uh tsn in 802.11 is a classic example but i don't think we should refer to standards that aren't yet in existence so uh calling out specific 802.11 xe or whatever it is i don't know the numbers well um letters is a mistake but i think it's perfectly valid to say work is happening at the time of this document um it has not been standardized but but it is happening i think that is a compromise that works without um stating things which aren't true yeah we can still say how the work is happening at tg blah right yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and i think that's pretty much what we do i mean i really have to to revisit but my memory is when we hint about b for instance in the case of 311 uh that's what we do okay i see i see you in the queue and i know you were one of the the people raising this do you have an opinion go ahead yes i i want uh did the point at first what i wrote in my last email that i i would really like to see this on progressing and and really happy for all the the contributions and i i the i guess the reason i wrote the similarizing this question was that i guess we we sort of get into a bit gray area as well now yes it's understood that the work is ongoing like the dot 11 dgb which will specify actually wi-fi seven and uh divided into sub-work items and so on but when it gets to so it's absolutely good to refer to it it's approved project on where it works it's happening no question but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "when it comes to sort of individual contributions like i mean contributions that are at the level of um individual has not adopted yet by the working group and i guess i would say maybe in united mechanics they are not there in the draft yet like uh draft 2.0 of dgb is coming in march which will include sort of the first they call it release or package of features and tsn is actually in the second release so it's not even there there in the in the draft it's it's hard to guess what the working group will actually approve or accept so that's that's the question mark and there were a couple of comments or aspects let's put it this way where i didn't see the agreement coming between between dave and rocco very few but still very few left open and that's why i suggested maybe to to to make this decision point on on in general what goes into the document that could help concluding open items thank you thanks janice so i think really as i see it there is um the the there is a task for rocco and for dave and maybe something for yanosh there as well to say to review the um the the the references to technologies particularly in uh other seos that they understand i know yelosh is very deeply involved with ieee to say uh this one is correct this reference is correct this reference is uh work in progress and this reference is still personal so we could say something like there is interest in it because i think it's obvious that there is interest but without saying oh and it is happening because it has not been ratified by ieee um i don't know about the six dish"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "example but it's probably worth just doing that double check um i would suggest that's probably part of the last call uh because it's a kind of a validation pass rather than a new content um i know i've just looked down the attendees rocco and dave cavalcanti and neither are involved so i don't know if anyone can reach out to them if we do a four-week last call i would hope that that is enough time for people to look at it does anyone have an opinion that would certainly suss out i mean this is eve i've been having trouble with my audio can you hear me yes okay um i think that the four week last call would suss out the half a dozen or so um unresolved uh back and forth that rocco and dave were having about the precise wording of the revisions you know and that's maybe half a dozen out of many dozen um that were provided which i thought was really a great effort um so i'm in agreement with being specific in the wording about the maturity of the various documents um and the different classifications whether they're adopted um lending towards adoption or personal um so i think some of this is a specificity issue it's not a lack of interest it's a just if we can get um everyone to agree on the accurate um portrayal of the maturity that then we can progress this eve if you and i take an action that when we send out the last call message to the mailing list we explicitly state that we require the references to be reviewed by people who are familiar with the sdos to which we rep to which we refer then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "and you and i can send a personal mail to rocco and dave saying you missed out but we'd really like you to look at this as well and then i think that will be obvious to everyone involved does that sound reasonable it sounds reasonable to me does it sound reasonable to the working group and i see that is with us as well oh rocco is in the queue go go ahead rocker speak yeah yes i'm here yeah i mean i agree before you discuss i think most of the comments related to ongoing projects there is a one or two related to proprietary solutions that have been used in wi-fi six which i feel they should not be there they are not in any standard not even any number one project and of course then and then there is another comment which is uh besides this two main aspects just as usual okay okay understood i i would suggest on the on the even if people are doing proprietary work that still shows that there is interest in the community to solve the problem even if it is not being done in an sdo somebody thinks it's important to do yes we need to qualify stuff right don't don't say there is this without saying hey it's proprietary or it's it's you know research or whatever i mean even if there are papers and research i mean all this is good to know uh but but it's it's we need to be very clear that's that's the point i mean yeah i agree yanosh go ahead and then we should probably move on because of time i i'm not sure on the proprietary because i think it's not not available for the generic public it's proprietary so like it's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "a reliable available wireless if it is not available like if it has made it interesting that then then it's it's it's everybody can buy it or have sex or but you you know all the problems with proprietary vendor lock it's nice my point was that the technologies document is talking about these are the technologies that exist that are appearing that could be used in order to enable reliable available wireless as a general um review of of the state of the art so if there are proprietary solutions that shows that there is interest in solving some of the problems at the link there and if they were to become open standards um then they could be used by whatever raw technologies we develop at layer 3. it demonstrates there is interest even if it may not be that useful for an sdo like the ietf in order to build on but but you can't deny it exists perhaps let's take this offline but um yeah i think we have a way forward yeah i'm a bit between the two i i'm convinced by both of you and you know you're saying the opposite but you're both very convincing okay can we move to the third presentation maybe uh third presentation yes let me start let me stop sharing that let me find the next share my screen too many clicks too many clicks uh the title is uh the title is must match title and it's there can you see that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "right yes so it makes like please and actually um and in the interest of fitting in the other presentations i'm going to ask you to accelerate this talk should i click the magic time button eve go for it how long how long has he got i think yeah you've got right minutes so basically i already already discussed you know the concept of path and versus flow and the idea that we should be forwarding the path is is the network layer thing whereas the flow is the upper layer thing and so since we are network layer we should basically operate on the concept of path where multiple application flows can be mixed and extract it from um so as you know that net has two main sub layers that the forwarding sub layer which well already you you for the packet and it's kind of more dumb operation it has but has to be for instance scheduled uh whereas the services where you do those higher level operations like pre-op replication elimination so most of barrio but not all of them and uh i looked at how we could basically signal the that net information that's not signaled so far that net that that pretty much says use the flow and that's gonna be it and and then you another flow is another setup and another treatment so you have to to configure the network for every document and that's that's probably not very practical because probably the pipes have a longer lifetime than the individual application flows in there so ipv6 has three main types of extension leaders the hub by hub which has to be processed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "by every hub but can be ignored um the the destination option which is supposed to be uh processed by the destination of the packet and and this basically is source rotator um like like segment transmitter and interestingly if you place a destination option before a rotting either uh the destination is is the next type in the routing error meaning that you can have something in destination option and have it processed by every node which in the those segment routing or source right leader meaning that you could possibly use hub by hub for the forwarding because the forwarding is has to be observed at every app necessarily and you could use either by hub because it can be ignored or the combination of destination option and source writing to signal to service supplier so the draft basically discusses all this the big value is to completely separate the application you know the flows from the network operation which allows you to merge and in multiple flows and you know i am inside the same path and have the same treatment can we skim through the slide just see if there is one we'd like to discuss before i left oh this this just shows you know the uh the the packet and as you see the hub by hop just just one point on that one the hop by hop is the first thing after the ipv6 header and as you know one of the difficulties in that space is is to to not to have to go deep into the packet because sometimes the silicon the a6 will not process more than less than 100 bytes or this kind of number meaning that if if the transport is pushed a little back then there is no way for the hardware to even detect what the batman flow is having it's very early in the packet it's very easy fixed fixed place for the hardware and now we can do more stuff in hardware so that's why using hub by hub is kind of convincing next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "next please okay so forget it but if you want to read out the slides you'll find the requirement that we're looking at uh so basically this draft is uh well the only one i'm aware of where we effectively used the ipv6 to to signal that net stuff beyond you know the application flow and so that's why i propose it to that net we need it for raw because we have this concept of path and we have this concept of flow and but i i believe that that that was useful beyond row so that's why i published it to that [Music] next line and i think we are done for q a yeah still a personal submission there are basically three information there so the redundancy you can think that as a sequence counter but you can place a lot more stuff than plain sequence counters and there are things which can be considered redundant and some others which will not be because it doesn't spread on that uh for instance if you do um network coding then you need to know which package you're in and then which code that is and so when you when you reorder you you you want to reorder for just the packet thing not for the fragments but when when you eliminate you don't want to emit different fragments uh path of shun is typically what you expect for that net something which has to be observed at the rehab and the lose path option is more you know if you don't do segment routing then you could do that it's more loose if you want to go in a large domain and you want to to maybe not do that net but something close on the other one and that's pretty much it for for this document so thank you for your questions reviews all this would help so pascal you're contributing this to net but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "i'm contributing this to that net because even if it comes from you know how we describe the raw architecture um and this separation of flow and pipe really um and then we do ipv6 that net doesn't kill us well they can do a lot more stuff but in the case of ipv6 it's it's just some subpar versus nprs so i wanted to to to get you know as much possibilities and possibly even a little bit more with ipv6 and with mpls the cool thing with ipv6 is you don't really have to have this explicit stack and you have to wonder if you have to go beyond the first information the stack to or top of stack to find this other information here you can really structure stuff and and since we can have tlvs we can really say oh the redundancy is expressed this way so so that's why i mean it was sad that it was so poor in the case of ipv6 and i really wanted to to make it a lot more richer and that's that's what i propose okay uh thank you very much pascal i'm watching the clock so i think uh that should be everything unless we have anyone in the queue which i don't um okay so we have 45 minutes left uh we actually have two presentations so we have a little bit of time for a qa at the end q a at the end uh pascal i know you've got a conflict so i we may lose you for the rest of the session but it's your choice i'll be watching through youtube i guess okay okay thank you break and the problem so next we have um i've lost the agenda it's um carlos so carlos do are you happy presenting your own slides or or do you want to shout next at me maybe you just can't share because i'm joining for an ipad that maybe it's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "that easy okay sorry so you want [Music] everybody always names their slides raw slides and then i look at them going i don't know which slides those are raw use cases and what's on your t-shirt it looks great what is it it's something with darth vader yes there we go okay thanks so well very shortly because uh for the sake of time by the way i hear a lot of echo i'm not sure it's my only me but anyway i'll try to to do it update of the raw use cases drop next slide please so just a reminder of what we have in the graph we we are covering these eight use cases in the draft the analytical communications i'm using parts wireless for industrial applications podium video what is gaming uav and v2v platoon and control edge robotic control and emergencies and for each of them we have the following structure please next go next basically first we describe the use case then we go into the specifics the challenges the need for wetlands and then at the very end the specific requirements for raw next slide please so with this in in mind we presented this where we last time in itf 111 and since then basically what we have done in the draft is to fix a lot of well a lot several editorial needs with some improvements and then we we had some discussions in the last atm meetings about this including some discussions and texts about non-linguistic critical communications"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "so we have done that in the last version of the document we have added a sub section called non-literacy critical communications under section x.4 requirements for raw for each of the use cases where we discuss about those dataset critical requirements or communications we also ask in the last itf meeting about getting some good reviews before going to working group last call we received one from corina thanks a lot most of the comments were editorial we are working in a new revision that will be available soon after after this meeting next slide please so then regarding next steps and going back to the point that the chairs made at the beginning about the time frame so i would like to ask once again to the working group for feedback if you think that there is something that needs to be updated improve add we move spain in a different way this is the moment because we are we the authors believe that we we are ready for for working going working through glasgow so we can either decide to get some additional deep reviews before or do that through the working group that's called us a question for the chairs to decide because from our side we are ready for for going working with lascaux okay thank you carlos um my only question apart from yes i need to do a good review myself and uh that applies to all the other working group um members as well please uh how does the use cases document align with the the industrial requirements because i know this was a um the industrial requirements sort of arrived after the use cases document was started do you believe that you have aligned enough with the or have you absorbed content from the industrial requirements that you need for the use cases or or do you still think that's working there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "so basically what we did the the industrial requirement goes in more detail so ours is more high level and we added a cross-reference to the industrial requirements for like further details this there is this additional document this was at that at that time when we did it i think it was 280 millions before what we believe the authors from both drafts that make sense but of course it would be good if we can have some feedback from the working group from the use cases document we are we are open to do whatever the working group feels is the best of course okay so yeah thank you uh so it sounds to me that the the authors of the use cases document believe they have aligned and referred to the industrial uh requirements document great so yeah um working group uh some reviews and uh i think we will ask for last call on this eve do you have comment but you've said which is that we probably should review it ourselves yeah yeah i mean i think uh the resolution of the cross reference between the two related documents has been achieved and that was the topic of discussion last time yeah having having a normative reference between the two will uh force them to be published in lockstep but we can go through the working group last call we can do iesg review and so on without having to wait for the other document but that's that's a problem for another day so i'm conscious that we have public holidays in various countries and uh so on running up to the the winter break so i'm tempted to say after this uh ietf meeting we will probably put a four week last call to give people a little bit of time to to do some further reviews does is that acceptable to carlos"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "yeah that's perfect perfectly fine thanks okay uh i shall make an eve does that make sense to you as well because i can't talk offline to you during the meeting yes okay i shall make a note of that um anyone else got any comment or should we move on to the next presentation let me just make a note external needed we're going to have to re-listen to it anyway and and take notes um yeah i'm scribbling notes as we go don't worry i'll be listening to the video oh excellent thank you right i shall stop sharing that thank you very much carlos uh next week we have uh niels to give us an update on alvex niels are you happy to present uh grant pre-loaded slides there we go i can click the button hey everyone um so that's not what i want to do apparently i want to share my screen oh i have to grant screen access there we go lots of buttons yeah [Music] i think that's the right one yeah all right tell me if you see something yes perfect all right so welcome everyone it's good to be back um because last time i didn't have the chance to present any updates now we have made many updates so let's delve in we're currently at version 09 of the draft um the topic of the entire thing is the album digital aeronautical communication system called in short ldacs um here's the note well and this is now the official title of the entire thing with the abstract here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "please note that apart from reliability and availability if ib connectivity over ldax we added security here in the in the abstract because it was one of the major updates that we did um here you can see the changes on the left hand side from the previous document and right hand side and now the current version um as you can see we streamlined a lot so uh the biggest thing that has happened is basically that we have seen some overlapping details and try to merge them to make reading through the document as smooth and easy for an audience as possible so that was probably the biggest thing that happened over the course of the last uh three months just uh really having external reviews uh going through the thing and then saying hey if you move that kind of information there or i'm missing that piece here um that was the most important thing we did also we received um feedback from the writing directorate i've incorporated that here and as you can see so the blue dots um the biggest thing that we changed is the chapter nine with security but also we worked on the introduction we worked on the altx protocol stack to make it a little bit more clear and then also worked a lot in the normative and informative references and just edit the latest publications on the entire thing so as i said so we address the entire feedback from the writing directorate and we uploaded um the version online we replied to thomas razi and i think with that at least the open issues should be addressed i'm happy to give some feedback on that um again references uh streamed at the work um and as i said the biggest thing was reworking the elder security section um also uh the the thing was that we wanted to add post quantum security to the overall lx security architecture because that hasn't been done yet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "um so that is the the overall picture now to the single chapters um so we got a lot of questions what aldex actually is and um well aldex is a wireless communication system for safety related communications related to safety and security of flight and regulator for flight meaning that you have several ground stations uh you have a radio in the aircraft and um only safety critical information is transmitted via ldac so that means prior to that it was the video mode 2 radio that was done uh that has done this kind of task um previous even later back um everything was communicated by a cars and now um ldx is from the view of um iko is basically an an access uh technology network access technology basically just enabling the data link as i said between aircraft and ground with data flowing for instance between airlines and the aircraft or the network operators and the aircraft and um because there have been so many changes in regulatory documents so for instance iko has worked on something so okay aka the international civil aviation organization has worked on the document 989 6 um in the version 03 uh specifying the aeronautical telecommunications network that's the atn over internet protocols infrastructure and what they did basically was saying um hey until now um the entire data was transmitted by akas then at osi and now we really want to move it to ip and uh in that regards to ipv6 and so other regulatory organizations such as rtca ring or uk um updated their respective documents and also published new ones um that i mentioned here because one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "biggest questions that we received is basically so yes now we know what aldex is but what kind of traffic will flow over it so ldx will be nexus network technology um for the 80 and ips plans uh off of iko and another question that we received is okay so um the current plan is that ldx will rule out starting 2024 uh probably to to due to due to covet it'll be a little bit late so um maybe 2026 maybe even 2028 but the thing is the initial rollout will start in europe and then probably asia has a large demands um the s is uh so so um the faa is even starting to integrate ldex into the the roadmap so um it will probably start in europe then uh go to asia then and then to us and maybe in 10 15 years it will be available worldwide um next up was uh the characteristics of aldex so first we we said okay uh from the previous systems uh such as video mode two uh which doesn't have for instance for instance a message prioritization um it doesn't have security so we just said what are the new things what are the characteristics so it's a very robust system because um in the l band so just on the frequency band there's pretty little space left so it has to be built as an inline system and then we clarified again how the entire uh sub network but also the protocol stack of lx works so here's uh basically the idea that um via an access router then as an a to ground uh air to ground router um the entire thing goes to the aeronautical telecommunications network and via the axis routers several ground stations that's let's say over europe are connected to that one and their user plane data is transmitted between a's and g's then for the protocol stack um that was basically just a clarification of how the entire thing looks without x and that ipv6 will probably be the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "traffic layer that ldx will serve now to the biggest change um security as i said um ltx is regarded as a network access technology in the atm ibs frame and uh several documents pretty strictly clarify what kind of requirements those technologies have to have such as access protection mechanisms such as certain latency that it has to support for instance there's a document the rtc80 350a that specifies for a certain kind of message type and those message types is what aldex is going to be for in the future that within 10 seconds um this message has to be delivered okay the thing is 10 seconds doesn't look like a lot it does does look like a lot of time but the thing is um if you add authentication procedures key establishment procedures so basically the initial part of the security to it and then after that is done then the message has to go through um the 10 seconds in for instance very worst-case situations where the link is is very weak so for instance you're at the edge of a cell and the bit error rate goes up um this this can be a problem so the entire thing had to be designed in with with that in mind that whatever you do the 10 seconds is not to be touched and then we presented in the chapter um the distinction between user and control data protection of ldx because um there's pretty clear information on how user data is to be protected for instance on their safety critical user data ats data um that mostly needs integrity and authenticity protection but then there's also airline data business data and and obviously that needs to be encrypted so we had to make this distinction between those two within the user data space and now for the control data space so the entire thing basically what keeps ldx alive the most important thing was that it's available and nobody can actually modify"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "um for instance uh uh for instance resource allocations because resource allocations isn't what makes aircraft or ground stations allowed to send user data so with those distinctions in mind we clarified that pretty much now in the security section we laid out an ldx a public key infrastructure with corresponding certificates um and uh then we went over the entire cell attachment procedure so the thing where an aircraft enters a grounds basically an lx cells who comes into the vicinity of a ground station does uh basic communications and and enablement and that's um during the cell entry procedure now both can communicate and then there's um the possibility to do the entire authentication key establishment thing in a second step called make so mutual authentication key establishment so we clarified that also why those two things are separated and then um we went on and clarified security levels for ldx because as a rollout a time will as i said be in like uh probably two three worst case five years um elliptic curve will probably be fine uh so we need to save a lot of security data obviously because um every bit that you send in in terms of security data is a bit that you lose in terms of actual payload so um here um the the design the most important design goal is that you have to save on the um security data bandwidth meaning that elliptic curve is quite elegant also curve compression stuff like that so it can save a lot of data but then when you look at post quantum security for instance for key encapsulation or signatures then you will realize oh boy you run into 10 times the traffic even 20 times the traffic because even the smallest and slimmest um lightweight crypto in post quantum can be quite a lot to to transport and so uh we identified um two schemes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "and mentioned them in the document so this is one way forward then again on the user data protection part um you have the distinction between air traffic services so safety critical stuff and airline operational control data um and the one thing has to be absolutely integrity authenticity protected and the other thing has to be encrypted so we suggested two different algorithms to do that lastly to the control channel part um as i get as i said this is where the magic of aldex happens because here on the left hand side you can see uh the superframe structure of ldax going for 240 milliseconds at the beginning of a superframe you have the broadcast channel at the top and this is where a ground station basically says hey i'm here uh please talk to me and the random access channel that's the one below uh r a c h um this is where an aircraft can request access to a cell and the problem is um due to other reasons it's hard to put in security here so we said no we don't want to put security here but what when where security is needed absolutely needed um is in the dedicated and common control channel on the right hand side so ccch is the common control and dcch because the common control is where aircraft are told when to send when they are allowed to send user data and then the dedicated control aircraft demand a certain amount of user data to be sent and so you have to be sure that whoever is requesting resources here is actually allowed to do that and this is why uh protection mechanisms must be in place here and so this is what we did with with the security chapter um we clarified all those open points and also added that the entire thing is a work in progress so the entire standard is obviously not done but this is um what we are laying out now for review because we got some requests on on how security handled in detail and this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "what we wanted to offer here in the document a high level view that helps understand the reader the design choices we made and i think that's that's it from my side those were the updates i think we addressed the feedback that we received thus far and now my question would be to jones gutter how the entire thing would proceed from here also with from the chairs because we have we answered the the feedback that we get that we got and now i'm like uh okay what's next so thank you thank you niels um i can answer what's next um we are still waiting for uh other review feedback from the other areas so iesg review um goes to all the areas uh rooting obviously are moving faster than everyone else at the moment so uh you got your review back from them very quickly i imagine security as with all these things there are the the various area reviewers have a queue i imagine security are going to take their time on this because this is complex and actually in my experience the security area always give really good reviews but they take their time um so there will be more reviews coming back from other areas and i'm afraid to say this does just take a bit of time so a little bit of patience does that answer cool so so just since uh since i was asked to comment also um to the extent that i can kick those reviews along faster i will i will do so thanks john i think for things like ops and interior and things like that there it will be a a quick text editorial read to see whether they can understand it i can't see that they're going to have much operational comments if but i may be wrong i don't i don't know how transport"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "are going to care too much they may say why aren't you doing this in the transport area but that's a discussion for for the ad and the chairs to have with them but it's fine as well right i mean the the one that i think we have to look out for is a security one and that's the one i'll talk with those ideas about you know expediting it yeah because i i see this as complex and i it's they're gonna need a bit of warning about this because it's it's a complex piece yeah um can i make a request to the working group of course uh in light of the reviews the text is changing as i as i said before can you have a chance uh working group members just to have a re-read and uh check that you're happy with the changes that have been happening because this is a working group document so uh we all need to be aware of that i mean it's it's kind of left always on its way out of the working group but we need to confirm that we are still happy with the changes that are happening i i i have confidence that we will be but it's worth double checking um [Music] eve do you have anything to add looks great thank you for all the hard work yeah good work guys it's this is a this is a mighty document so uh yeah thank you so um thank you niels uh i think we have now got to the last 20 minutes of the session so uh really open mic questions comment anyone want to add anything now is your chance resounding silence it's either midnight at your your local time and you've fallen asleep at your desk or uh i guess in my case [Laughter] so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "just looking down my list of notes the chairs will set up some informal uh interim maybe bi-weekly meetings depending on public holidays for a chance to really get on top of the raw architecture we will be updating some of the milestones based on some of the feedback we've had so far we will guess some of the far off ones we will set more realistic milestones for some of the near ones hopefully that will please john and he can then click approve to some of our updates uh working group last call for the technologies draft it will be a four week uh last call with a request for please everybody review the references particularly those of you with influence or understanding of the referenced sdos the use cases again uh we'll put a full week on there because we'll have two working group last calls happening at the same time and public holidays and to give everyone a chance to review that as well uh but otherwise that looks pretty good we'll have some documents from working group last call we've got ldax in iesg review um we should get some rfcs coming out of this group sometime next year because the editors always take a little bit of time to do it properly which is nice but um i think we can be pleased as a working group that we're producing things or documents of value which is important so uh well done but it does rely on everyone's good reviews as well um eve do you have anything to add i feel like i've been talking for hours no i've been grateful so that i haven't had to be entirely highly awake entirely so i'm quite grateful but actually i will express my gratitude as well that things have progressed and that the discussions have been both respectful but very candid and honest and that we're working through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "some of the tussles uh in the discussions around uh drafts and and references and things like that so um thank you to everybody what i haven't done is looked at any of the meeting notes i don't know there are none so that's why i i will take the ar to re-listen to the video and take notes at that time oh thank you eve thank you very much yeah so we'll uh the chairs will take an action to try and produce some meeting notes um that will take a little bit of delay so uh john when you send us the mandatory email in four days time saying please update update your minutes upload your minutes we will be composing the minutes uh just for the record um you will be able to find the video transcript of this entire meeting on youtube at some point the ietf publishes everything on youtube so uh um i've been you know watching things that i've missed um uh over the last few days so it's been quite helpful brilliant okay um in which case i'm tempted to close eve any objections yes i think we should give you back some of your morning or evening whatever time zone you're in yeah okay well thank you very much for your attendance um oh john makes a comment in the chat to say that you can use youtube auto transcription oh hey that might save us some time it might take some post editing i think it's fine to re-listen sort of solidifies things it's okay thank you that is a great suggestion we'll try not to cheat oh look at this lou is saying that'll be very helpful okay well listen everybody um thank you for for being here thank you for your participation and contributions and i'll probably see most of you in debt net when debt net happens this week i can't see the agenda in front of me but otherwise thank you very much we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "will be holding we will be holding a meeting uh ietf113 which is in bangkok allegedly in person uh kovid willing transports permissions willing may see some of you in person maybe attending virtually not sure what my situation is but we plan to hold a meeting there uh pascal is back i've heard that it won't be in bangkok i mean the latest noise i heard uh valid or not i can't say but looks that it is it could effectively take place in person but most probably the us and not not in bangkok bangkok i think it's don't think about it okay yeah yeah it was i looked at the main ietf website and it said 113 in bangkok and i was i i can no longer remember what um you know things i know are public and what things i know are private but i'm i'm 99 sure that during the plenary lars said that it will not be in bangkok so i don't think i'm giving too much away okay it would be nice to meet you dominique says dominique says in the chat i heard eu rather than not us i think that lars also said that the mic so i'll just confirm that as well okay okay i missed the announcement obviously but it would be nice to meet uh again in person um you know kovid restrictions permitting so uh we will the key point is we will be holding a uh raw session for ietf one one three where we will probably i will say oh sorry go ahead we'll we will where the authors of of these various documents will hopefully be requesting working group last call for things like the raw architecture draft and we'll be celebrating the rfc editor status of various things so that'll be good great go ahead oh i completely forgot what i was gonna say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "we have never met in person we had the unlucky situation that our first ietf uh was the march itf as covid hit and so it would be lovely to meet in person since we never have yes because we only did the buff in person so yeah the raw working group has never met in person there we go that's a bit of ietf history for people so uh yeah fingers crossed okay um i'm gonna i'm gonna draw it to a close there and say thank you very much everyone and speak to you uh later on and the next ietf if not before okay thank you i don't know how to i don't know how to close the session by the way uh all the way to the right at the top it says leave the room it looks like a gas station pump but that's that's me not exactly sure i don't think i think the room will stay open for another quarter of an hour but uh well we can stop the recording that's the other yeah in which case i should try i don't know how okay thank you very much everyone i'm i'm going to depart briefly i'll see you in some other session at some point this idea take it take it steady"
  }
]
