[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "Is that mine? which has been think Yeah. Yeah. they find you that additional screen. I can put the Zulu pair. 1 more screen. on."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "All good. I think we should start. So that was Slowly, slowly people are coming after food. I think we'll start in a minute. Yes. Yes. Yes. Just one moment. Any remote presenters wanna do a mic test? Please do it now. I see Chang, mic test, if you like. who else Can you hear me? Mike, go ahead. Yeah. Mike. Do a mic test. Can you hear me? Yes. My all good. Shankh, I can't hear you if you're speaking. Chen, do a check for your headphones right now if you're trying to speak. I can't Okay. Hello. Yes. Working up. Okay. Thank you. Just one thing, please make sure to do the new way of doing blue sheets either on the screen or the ad that is being passed around the room."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "Please make sure that happens. We need to get the room of the right size. Thank you. And it's important that your attendance is captured as well. Julian, go ahead. I think we can start Sure. Hello, everyone. This is the busy walking group session. Okay. So has you already noticed, Andrew? etc, laptop, to replace Harry. So it would be handling the the notes for a decision. So feel free to give me a hand during the physician to right down there, seeing if you're would be deserve it. We deserve it. Okay. Okay. So Yeah. as scrub is writing down, we We'll thank and we are ready, and we can thank you and tariff or is work with the PC work group. I hope we'll meet him again. I don't think he's in San Francisco this time, but maybe in the future. So Let's hope So Should we modest file. Julien, you should have the slide. Oh, okay. have the control. Thanks. No. No. 12. So you should be familiar with them if you already attended some session this week or if you already attended some creative meeting before. There are some process to to follow and to be aware of. So feel free to look at those references here. make sure you are following all the processes, especially when comes to the particular property processes. There is also some harassment prevention in place"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "some the ETF is trying to be more and more share on that on the to put hire means on on this effort. So if you feel there are issues related to harassment. Please do the contact the the the people in charge and make sure that situations are well, I captured. And of course, we are here to discuss technical matters. So Arspunt is not welcome at all at the ATF. anywhere else, I guess. So if you feel that someone may need some help also, you you may be welcome the signal on Contact the hamburger presence. As a reminder, this session is being recorded as usual. So has track of what mentioned before, make sure signed the virtual Blue Shield using the medical tool, especially if if you're in the room, It's now mandatory to connect to Mexico to to do stuff. So Please follow the process maybe using the QR code or that that that may be circulating in the in the room. Otherwise, you the full the the you heavy clients for medical, and you'll be tried some included in the the 12 blue sheets. So we've already tested the audio for remote, but spend. So I hope that the the the remote presentation work well. But on the the previous session, I attended seems to be okay this time. So I hope it will keep on the same for the PC session. So the useful links"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "you may already be aware of the agenda 1. and but issue of issues. There are other useful medical related once. So you may use those. especially for the PCEC issuing in progress. if you want to give a hand to Andrew, here are the link to the notes page, feel free to join on add any missing information to capture key element under. decision decision decision as usual, there are some behavior to abide by to for the the few with metacol. So Do not start speaking directly. Please join the queue on the app. when we give you the floor please state your name. This is recorded on the as usual, travel and make sure that you are following and respecting the the time you were allocated. Usual reminders. IETF works a lot between meetings. So please make sure that your work is shared on the PC mailing list, especially everything related to working group drafts on topics that may be relevant to the working group. try to express your opinion at the the various steps for document progresses, including working with call, whatever ID adoptions, and so on. We have the Wiki in place. You will notice that we have a couple of queues there. Like, to work in the block of calls and work with MedOcean. We try to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "first time step by step with Ralph. There are some document remaining there, but we are not forgetting them. We tried them, and we tried to progress in those queue So feel free to look at them and make sure it's up to date. the direct link to the the chat there, on the the the reminder for or the the early allocation process that exist with the IMI. So if you are planning to implement the draft for interruptions, you may consider requesting some really good points. So there is a post process for that as well. So you may contact the chair if you feel that your draft is already requiring cut points before being published as a nurse So agenda bashing. does anyone want to bash anything from the agenda? Okay. Great. So the agenda is full. So make sure it should present that you respect your No time, for group status. So we don't have published any new RC since the previous ETF, but we have several with the AEG. 2 of them are with the RC editor. One of them is blocked due to miss Rev. So, hopefully, we will resolve this one by progressing the to the reference document. in near future. So it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "binding in the right label. We also have local protection response, which is pending an update, but it should be resolved. pretty soon. And we the IAG, we have currently the stateful GMPIS document. which is progressing as well. So as soon as the the revision is posted. may move forward again. We don't have any new warehouse since last ATF. There is a lesion which was sent by the IQT where you one one with the the update of their work on the request on our side to to update the the the relevant work, that we they may be interested in. So there is a Accordinated response, which is generally and by Scott to gather the the response of the various involved working groups. Here, we have a a track of the existing for documents with the Walking Group 3 of them were renewed quite recently. And we move to the status of the working group IDs. 1, 2, take the ball from their drop. Yes. Thanks, Julian. I'll take control back. Yeah. Thank you. Hello? So these are the documents which are post working group last call, the SRV6 one is on the agenda. Hopefully, we will be making progress on this soon. That's what Our hope is, then we have 2 documents, PCP Yank, and a native IP. both of them are waiting on Shepard review."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "So, hopefully, both your chairs will on this soon, and we should be able to progress these. The documents which are nearing working group last call we have a flex grid, we have a a document about SR policy candidate part, which is on the agenda, and hopefully, when we discuss, we can decide whether it's ready for working with last call. we have optional objects, in PSAP, and state synchronization Both of them seems to be ready. They have been the versions have been mostly stable. and if there are any concerns please let us know. regarding these documents. Moving quickly on, Again, we have some documents which have been more on the stable side. We have s r part segment, bidirectional, PCCC for SR all, I think, slowly and slowly moving towards the working with last call stage, hopefully. Multipath is on the agenda, so we can discuss this in that time itself. Some documents, we have stateful interdomain, which has expired but the authors have confirmed that they would be they still wanna pro progress this work. they will be making an update before the next IETF and maybe even present in the next IETF. So we are hoping make progress there. p2mpone was discussed in the last IETF. There were comments given we are waiting for those comments to be handled. Another document that we have is l2flowspecone. This one, I've I've planned to discuss with the IDR folks as well and see if we need to do any changes in p steps, especially because of fsv2 procedures. And things like adding explicit order in flow spec, whether we need to support that end ASAP as well. So that might request some change. So that's one action item that I've taken that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "during this IETF to figure that out and then come back to the working group and see whether we wanna take that up or not. Here, we have another set of working group i items, I don't see any issues here except for the SRV 6 PCCC, which was adopted we had got lot of good comments from Adrian. Those are still not handled, so authors please make a 1. handle those comments. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. These are our recently adopted document We have the TLS 1.3, which is actually on the agenda. and And the vendor one actually the status should update. We have the 0, which is posted. yesterday. So we are good there. This is our adoption pull queue. We maintain this in our wiki. If you have any concerns, Please let the chairs know we can work with you in figuring out And as you can see, our queue is long, So please help in reviewing, moving things quickly, We don't wanna hold up documents as well. So we need your support when we ask for working open option and last call to give timely comments so that we can move things quickly. This document, which was discussed last time and on the list as well, we asked for feedback from the working group. The working group was kinda silent on that. and chairs have decided that we are gonna park this document until we have implementations or other documents that use this enhanced error technique. so that document can be brought back when that changes. For now, it's in the park stage. we we maintain a Wiki where we coordinate with other working groups and research groups, especially tracking what's happening in extensions in IDR and in spring, in beer, where we also do work in PSAP. So I've talked to Andrew and Andrew will help me in keeping this more up to date. There is still more work needed here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "We have a GitHub. app So if you want to move some of your working group ID repositories to IT of working group GitHub instead of your personal one, please reach out to the chairs and secretary. we'll help you out and doing that. Okay. And any concerns with any of our working group documents, does anybody wanna have any comments, any thoughts Anybody on this? No. Okay. So moving ahead, the next part of our the working group session was also to have a chance to discuss the working group charter update. We actually had a good discussion on the mailing list, but since we were nearing the like, in the IETF meeting, we thought, let's hold on. Let's give one chance during a live meeting as well if people have any thoughts on the charter update. And based on what happens today, we can then progress this to Rad for our reach out up. So our PC working group charter is actually last updated in 2014. So it's been a little dated. and chairs and ADs discussed that we need to update it, make things more visits, especially with respect to segment routing and the new work coming in with respect to beer and tetnet. So the main changes are related to that, clearly saying that work outside of RSVPTs have running NPSAP, segment routing, beer.net. also simplifying some of our text real related to inter domain, for instance. So mostly the charter update looks pretty tier, At least on the mailing list, things were fine. This is your one more chance during the working group session, if anybody has any thoughts on the charter update please use this type. Otherwise, we'll ship to John. Okay. Awesome. Awesome."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "So hearing nothing, I think we'll be sending it to ID. pretty soon. Thanks. Let's start Agenda, our first speaker is Mike. Okay. Stop sharing. Like, I've given you control, you should be able to control the slides. Yeah. Thanks, Dhruv. Hi, everybody. I might Kodyshev from Cisco Systems. I'll be presenting these piece of extensions for SRT policy. these two drafts, So The summary of what these two drafts do is they basically enable to support all the features of the SR policy architecture. plus also some additional features are kind of crept and And So these 2 these features are reverse path per segment list, backup per segment list, So this point is actually kind of up for discussion I've received some questions about about whether we should move this section to a separate document. which I think makes sense. Because the backup is not part of a surplus architecture, and it's also I don't think there may be a lot of use cases for it. honest. I don't think anybody implemented And the 3rd The third feature that's not in the SR policy architect that is in the drafts is the Perflow policy. which is a special kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "special kind of composite candidate path. And so okay. So I tried to basically make very granular capability negotiations so that the piece appears to negotiate which capabilities out of all these SR policy architecture features, which of the features they actually support, and So it allows you know, the the peace of client the appear to basically only support some of the features. And these drafts have been deployed in production by Cisco And they've also been I don't know if they've been deployed by by, like, Juniper and while we're in the rest, but they've definitely been implemented. I'm not sure. But I'm I think there are some other implementations, but I haven't received any information. So If there's other implementations, please You can email me and let me know. So, like, the recent changes I've been doing a lot of work on this I'm trying to bring this draft to, like, a a good state kinda making the wording clear and and removing some of the confusing parts. So here's, like, a summary of the recent changes. So this is kind of a the first point I'll I'll do a bit more on it in the slide. So, basically, we can we I allow the state for bring up for this application. So for the ASR policy architecture, or for the SR policy LSP. Then, basically, we try to make this protocol origin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "aligned with BGPOS, So, unfortunately, We use different code points. So There may be a bit of a a mess in that in there's so right right now, piece of piece is 102030, and BGPLS uses 1, 2, 3. So we hope to have a common SR, registry that maintains these code points across all the federal things, so that we don't have to have a separate registries per protocol. Yeah. So that's kind of pretty much it. Pretty much it. So I wanted to quickly say about the state for bring up So, basically, the RFC 8231, which is stateful piece of specifies that the PCC must send the PC request before sending to report If the LSP is down, initially done. So this I think we all kind of discussed this a lot, and we all agree that create a unnecessary overhead, and most vendors were kind of shipping up power anyway. So my previous PC operational draft was trying to you know, bring make this behave remove this unnecessary step. Right? of sending the PC request. but I was doing it for all the old like, the whole piece up. Right? So for all path set up types, which in hindsight is probably too broad of a scope because It affects not only existing ones, but legacy ones. plusfuture LSP types. So in this current draft, in the s r policy candidate pass draft I basically restrict the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "stateful bring up to just us or post sales piece. So I don't care, like, about what you do with RCPT or p2mp or native IP It's just that restrict the scope to this one application, And I I think that that's much easier to to work with. And to try to make a change through the whole you know, that affects all the LSP types. So, yeah, that's it for my presentation. Thanks. Thanks. Kaithen Talaunica, Cisco. Mike, this is about comment or the what you stated earlier in your presentation about segment list backup. So as you say that now there are some things which are extended beyond the RFC 92 56, which is the SR policy architecture, I think, like, per flow is covered there. the reverse path is, you know I mean, it's it's an additional thing that seems fine. but I have a concern with the backup. because the semantics of our segment list is for load balancing. They are not for active backup kind of a thing. For that purpose, we use candidate parts. So we can have 2 candidate paths, and one is active and the other is the backup for that. So perhaps, you know, that's something to look at from a SR policy perspective. I don't know if there are Any other like, RSVPT or something else where we need or where the multipath backup, backup, backup, then may be useful. it is not there, then probably it's best to take it off."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "So there. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. If you prefer -- -- can Yeah. I can summarize. So if you want to solve the active backup signaling, then we should use to candidate path that are active backup with each other. between segment lists, it's always load balancing. So this is the SR policy thing. The multipath, if it is meant only for this, then, you know, it it's violates this. But if it's used for RSUPT, then that's fine. I think we we can keep it. Yeah. I agree. Let's I mean, let's see if mean, if nobody objects, then we can move or move slash remove. that section of on the backup segment list. Thanks, Ketan. Thanks, Mac. Shankh, go ahead. Hello, Jamie? Yes. Yes. I I agree with Ketan. about the backup parts because Yeah. It is right. That that is about as a policy architecture. So the segment list is used used for load balancing. Yep. And the second point is that I do remember that we have something similar or the theme, defined it another working through document, which is the SR, directional pause. Thanks. Right? So regarding the reverse pause. 2nd, at least, I think it should be removed out of this document as well. it it Thank you. But I'm not really sure about the the the the progress of this discussion is a long history. sign. Just want to confirm. Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "Yeah. I mean, like, technically, the reverse segment list is not part of the SR policy architecture. But at the same time yeah. I I mean, Yes. But at the same time, it it is So it is kind of useful, but I mean, if people want to move it to a separate document, that's fine with me. Yep. 120 Okay. Discussed offline. I think it will be easy to get. to be addressed. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Thanks, Frank. So I kinda agree. I think let's keep this document limited to what's already there in the SR policy architecture. that would be very easier for us to process as well. and we would like like, to move this document forward. So I think my suggestion would be remove the things which are newly added, and we can discuss then what concerns Cheung and Kaithen has as part of those documents. and this we can move ahead. One thing with respect to the stateful bring up since since you are suggesting to update RFC 8231 make sure that we use the metadata in the draft also, which clearly says that there is an update right now that seems to be missing. And it should really say what what exactly are we updating? That part would be very useful. Okay. Yeah. And regarding the capability TLV that you have added any thoughts of reusing existing TLV, like, just add flags to those TLV, is there a reason you thought we need an SR policy capability, a new TL we have. Not really. I didn't I I mean, it was just kind of cleaner in my view to have it all in 1 but yeah, we can definitely reuse it. Yeah. We can think about it. I think the only reason to do this be if you think that other would be we have an SR MPLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "capability and SRV 6 capability, which is separate. the only reason to do this would be if you wanna have a common capable 30 and not for separate. But I can see advantage of, like, you know, both ways. Like, We could wanna do it. SR MPLS maybe are different capabilities. And for SRV 6, different set of capabilities, in which case our existing model makes more sense. So just think about this a little bit more. and then not If you we can easily handle this. Okay. Right. Thanks. my final question, which may be a little off topic, but since it's there in the slide, what's the status with the PC operational I think the last decision was that you would break this into 2 documents -- Yeah. Are you still thinking of doing that or not what's happening? Yeah. So I think I I'm gonna basically remove the part that's modifying our CA231 out of that document. Mhmm. Out of the PC operational. Right? So make it purely information informational, And then, basically, the part that modifies RFC 231 will be the SRPOCCP. draft. Okay. So so according to you, apart from stateful bring up, there is nothing that is updating the existing RFC. just wanna make sure given that -- Yeah. Yeah. I believe so. Yeah. That's right. Okay. So once we have the document, I think we can just look out for that. That's my main concern. Otherwise, it's actually this document is in the working group adoption queue. So moment you produce 1, we can move ahead. I think we used to have Andrew from queue. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. you're you want me to go up there can use this. That's pretty easy. I understand, Nokia. So regarding the backup path discussion, I agree that, yes, and yes, our policy architecture is not there. I think there's a bit of history on how it leaked into this document. So originally, with the point to multipoint policy, with the replication segment,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "was introducing the concept of a backup path. because in the replication segment context, if not load balanced, And so the intention was to signal a backup path in that case. And so at the time, that was inside of the multi path draft. because the multi pass was about encoding multiple seedless. why it got brought into the SR policy document. I'm not fully sure. But I do agree that it shouldn't be there because it's not in the unicast SR policy. but we do need it in the replication segment solution. Thank you. Thanks, Andrew. Any other comments? Otherwise, we'll move ahead. Thank you. Okay. I've given you slide control. Yeah. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Go ahead. Okay. Perfect. So Charlie from Huawei's. My topic today is about the PCP. extension for SAV 6, which is a very basic extension for SAV 6. And After IPF 116, we have only one single update, but we have address a lot of comments from the working group, but we still have some something to be addressed in future. So lucky, we can discuss today, yep, next Okay. Since I I can't control it. Okay. So From this slide, we can see that Almost all of the SF 6 basic extension have been Jose. mutual and and and published as Apsis already. Right? So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "PCP extension, maybe the last one. Maybe the last one. So we we need to do Yep. Absolutely. We need tomorrow. And this is the current solicitation of the document we we see that the working group last call has entered in March, and we we received a lot of comments from, like, kitten, agent, Right? We have address the editorial comment receipt them from them and many things to them. And and currently, we still have some Okay. And and something more. Right? In the last last update, we we adjust some comments further. For example, we add the Chen Zhang as new contributor. because we merge the inner parts from their drafted into this draft, And, also, we adjust the agents' comments and, for example, the record route object to a reports root object. Right? And we we address engines, i ISG, early review, comments as well. and and the editorial comments from Kevin, and and some, like, references update on removal. Yep. And to now, we see that The At least from my point of view, The last the last functional comment to the address is the comment regarding to MSD, from Ketan. So there there may be two main points regarding to these comments, the first one is that showy Shoey? Carry the MSD. inside the open sub theory to the a PC, that is the first question. And the second"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "a second question is that we need X Frac? Right? So the good news is that Canada has send the his email to the working group mailing list. So everyone is welcome to share your comments, share your thoughts in the Middle East. It will be hard to go into the details here, but you're welcome to share anything you want. Yep. So let me go go through the slides very quickly, and we can go to the discussion part. Yeah. So the next step is that we we we should have more active discussion in the working group mail release, and let's find a consensus very quick, and and we can go to update it. dropped and move the draft 4. Yep. And that's it. Thank you. So comments and discussions are welcome. it it it Kenneth, go ahead. Hi, Ketan Talaudhukar, Cisco. So we've had chance to discuss face to face here with some folks and some members and also withdrew I think Drew has suggested a a proposal. I mean, we can wordsmith it but I think that's probably the way to go. So at this stage, we are not I mean, it doesn't make sense to remove, MSD. Right? It's not there are implementations out there. So just clarification of the how a service 6 MSD is relevant on all the nodes So some text there, we can work offline. And then there is ACC CC, use case. Right? So that is fine. So I think That's the first point. on the xbetx flag, I kind of agree So we should poll if there are any implementations And if not, then maybe remove that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "can use it for something else down the line. Okay. Personally, I I agree with you. Yep. Yeah. So, I mean, if we can resolve, we should move forward. Yes. Sure. Thanks, Ketan. So, actually, So now if we resolve the MSD thing, which you which we can work with. Now only the x flag is the only factor. With x flag also, now is the chance for the working group. If anybody wants to talk now, be let us know or otherwise on the mailing list. What do what do people feel? x flag, what we are looking for is if your implementation, are you setting Next flag are people doing it, And even on receiving, if somebody receives with an ex black set, that means I don't handle m MSD at all. I don't consider MSD during part competition, what's the impact? And one suggestion which I made on the mailing list is, if you wanna keep it, it's anyway, it's off flow, we can add a warning that if you do this, then, of course, there is a chances that packet will get drawn We are not taking MSD into consideration. And if operator wants to specifically set it, letter. Is what's the side effect of that? That part, if Kaitlyn, you wanna like, at at least that as an option I wanna keep, and we'll do what the working group things otherwise. It it feels strongly that no one needs to go away. Yeah. So we'll go with. Yeah. So MSD generally is not things that operator provisions, it is the kind of most like by default, it's the capability of the form which is x ordered, Now I'm aware of implementations which allow to either reduce that number for certain reasons to keep like, say, some some more space for some other reasons or increase the thing with some degraded performance. So there are operators tweak it for that reason."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "I do not know why I mean, how operator would want to say, but, you know, we'll wait for in this thing. Like, there is no MSD in any platform. Right? Yeah. Can I ask you a question? In IGP, I thought even their MSDs off tool. Right? Are we saying it's mandatory that you must advertise it? I thought it was -- No. Advertisement is optional. Right? Yeah. So I am taking it exactly in that point. if somebody is not advertising it, and it's doesn't care and it's happy to live with a failed path Oh, okay. So if it is not there, then it is considered that it is not supported. That's the semantics in IGP. So if you support something, then you advertise the MSD for it. If you don't, then actually, it's undefined behavior. you can see. But, like, a request to the working group, like, please, if you have thoughts on this, please use the mailing list and give us put the document has been stuck for a while now. And we really wanna make progress. As you know, there is a misstep Also waiting for this document, so we really want to make progress here. So please be vocal. Yes. And you can use this time also. We have time. for this discussion. Okay. So Boris. Go ahead. Yep. Hello. Just short comment, what implementation status part should be updated too because where are at least 2 more implementations. as far as I know, maybe even more one too. Yep. Please send to the list, and I'm sure authors will add it. They will Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Anyone else? Any other comments? Nope. No. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks, Jay. Does it delay? between sharing. Samil? between. control,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "Hi, Okeydoke. -- whenever you are. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. Go ahead. Yep. Hi. Hi, Ulla. I'm someone else from Cisco. how it doesn't engraft about as a algorithm in pieces. on valve of outers of the graph. I presented it in past already a few times. proposed of this presentation is mostly to summarize changes done to look at our size while, like, it's So I'd first show a summary about motivation and of the of the that I will draft before the draft was introduced information about the outbreak more. all specific city will settle in IGP and BGP list. but there was no way to encode that information in PISA. in extension for ASR and ASR receipts ERO, sub objective was introduced to solve it. So second part is about the second part of the graph is about algorithmic constraints, which is allowing operator to specify algorithm of 6 or which can be used in the bottom concluded segment list Is our seat algorithm covers existing algorithms, from RGP SPS, 3GSPF, for example, for example, documentation has a lot of benefits, for example, possibility of computing, shorter and at least, better realization of ECMP, apply in constraints and power optimization method deal with the deck of art. as though. Now to describe actual changes So the 10 new versions of the draft that submitted science was ideas It's multiple changes. this tagging next few slides. The cloud already defined capability negotiate,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "whether as an algorithm as an algorithmic extension for HR and except some object is supported. by disappeared. usage of DUSFlex was extended to cover our operating constraints 1st best week parts setup type. based on comments that you see the algorithm was very nice. as a longer one piece of the route with documents from other working working groups. explicit statement statements where Adi to to specify handling the various negative cases, like, multiple instances of there's a lot of the our breaking POE included email, SBU, text, unexpected DSO, sub object blank, using as an algorithm specific piece of extensions even if capability will not advertise, like, appear and few other things. to develop those extended to specified behavior for the Etsy binding seats, BDP, PCS, case of usage of result, like, in constraints, also some quality qualification was done. the algorithm constrain is applied to end pointpart and so we are not allowing to specify different algorithm number. current domain, plus some recommendations that included in case of if somebody is still it needs to nice to achieve it. No. There is I'll I'll wait until we so which is used for encoding called outbreak and constraints, it was extended to the new new mode to to allow for the documentation on PC, based on metric tag and constraints recreative from flexible definition. existing loose samples, modified, or update it to straight flex to align a bit some other piece of RFCs and routes. I explained the reasons why new mode was made it for for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "as I'll go I'll break in DOD in the vast digest, and then also a mailing list. So I do not go into details about about that more about why the model is needed I know just the describes the the actual behavior that of that of that new mode of the documentation. for example, the punctuation on PC follows, punctuation logic MGP, so same type like in logic, for the fab selection. same roles for topogeekroaming, like, exclusion of links. So we download advertising for Zoho as well. or applications, basically, Green, up, tables, and also ex ex exclusion loans without participation in this past week as an algo. Oh, PC model, so we use as fast as we for the overall as fast as we metric values, admin groups, in case of in case of messages like like PC, Chris, this report, the metric type is ignored. we are retrieving the metric type from from the for Zalgo definition. for Constance PC must consider what, so the constants from the bits and messages and constants from thought. but the PCC and PC are or both disappear's are not are not supposed to include or to that's what those constraints from for example, definition in p semester So, for example, if words over definition has some I don't know admin group specified. the MPC use them in the documentation. It is not supposed to include an in PC update message, we send back to the pieces. if specific specific combination of constraints is not supported, in the punctuation on PC side, then PC can still fail the punctuation a correspondent about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "then I repeat, it's like the automatic type for delay optimized part is using minimum imidirectional, ring delay, but there was no, like, well, and they take that big piece of So 2 new metric tabs that are introduced one for point to point parts and one for point to multipoint parts, ends. existing existing detector for probably way in piece of more using have been exceeding the way. So that's why we need it to into the introduce new metric types. All these are basically new piece of extensions switch weapon signs last, I guess. So there was a it's a major change. around that point of view. And for next steps, so any comments any discussion with welcome, and the next one is to be Chris. early, you know, at what point the location so we can proceed with the interrupt Should It's Thanks, Hamil. The update looks really good. Thanks for working on it. of of one thing which I want to flag and it's better you handle early on itself is the number of authors We have currently 8. limited to 5, do it early rather than at the latest stages where there are more hurt feelings, So I suggest just fix it in the next version. itself. you have 2 models, either limit to 5 or mark someone as an editor, and move everybody else in the contributor section. Yep. Yep. I don't do that. I had a plan to do it about sort of yeah. I I was postponing it. nowadays, I was not sure who your who your contact would work. So and I don't want it to be sent back to do that. Yeah. I can do that in the acceleration Yeah. Thank you. are there any pending issues that working group should be aware of."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "Well, only only say, small print enhancement, which I'm still tracking the belt is is basically maybe better at other reporting. So for any case, he's gonna example, because of the limited support, of the drafts, the PC, the PC, celebrating the part completion or selling the part completion. then we can potentially enhance the I don't know. 14, you can send some some specific I've been on a lot of code back to the PCC to to qualify by the participation field. But Yeah. I mean, that's minor thing and and we will see how it will be handled or edit. really needs to be handled. So that that's the only remaining part which I Thank you. Any other comments? No. thanks. Thank you. We can use this. Just give me one second. Let me bring up your slides. Hello? -- do a test? whether it's okay. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. It's perfect. Hello, everyone. I'm Zach from ZTE. Today, I'm predating on behalf of all the co authors in the following year following years and scenarios, same state of the egress node must be specified in the 2nd list of SRV6 policy. The first is the steering rate traffic based on bounding seat. For example, internal special scenario and across domain past special scenarios. The second is end to end fast forward detecting based on SRV6 policy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "The own the the the own the state of egress node must be specified in the 2nd list of OM message. the the SIs of these packets forwarded the base on the SRCX policy. well, you accumulated this in state and a VPN state of the ingress node and at the same time. it will introduce the following questions the the it will affect the PC PSP behaviors because the conditions of I l equals 0 is not might. The plan on teammate as a segment endpoint node. will not be able to perform the processing of removing the SIS. forms at ub6, extension Hydera. And it also affects the forwarding efficiently efficiency of egress node. The date the date packet needs to look up the seats table twice within the egress node. both some chips. The 2nd seed table look up the craft look up interface to be implemented. due to Japan wise, limitations and the the possibility of other service package call is existing on the loop back in the face. the following year efficiency of back hits to end will be greatly affected in our document, we define the following mechanism. When the controller distribute a second delays through PCEP, either your forms, They ingress node. which one is a egressnosced. it can be through a flag of the SRV6. ERO suboptics And after the ingress node received the mass PCP masses."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "it will if as I send the list, of the packet already contains the solid state of the egress node. The end state of the equalized node will not capacificed. in SaaS in segmentalist. and at the same time. if they've extended the flags of This is the format of s r v 6. Yeah. So basic with ebate When the e b e flag is signed, it indicates that's the segment the i segment ID is the egress node c. And this is examples 4 date packets, 4 date to VPN. I say it's a segment list that will not incorporate the in the states. and the service state and at the same time, It only encapsulated the service sheet. and foreign message. it is the the o so o m message is not talent the needs to be sent to the VPN. So it can only I need so all the node state of the city list of as a policy will be capital silicate. it's not it's starting it's starting to need to in cabozantiluted service seat. Next step, any questions or comments I will Thank you. Are there any questions? Did you present this in Spring? Is there any feedback from Spring or any other? So I think do check with the spring working group as well. I think whether this what you are proposing makes sense or not. I think we wanna get some inputs. From PCP point of view,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "from especially from the encoding point of view, another thing that we can think is we have NAI Can NAI be used to because NAI Gankari, Gankari, Gankari, the loop back address, and I know who the destination is. can that itself meet your requirement do we really need a flag or not. That's also something that you could Okay. Think about. But I think the main would be to get input from Spring, and then we can Okay? think about this more. does anybody else has any thoughts on this? Whether this thing is needed, is useful, No feedback. Okay? Maybe we can move to the next one. Okay. all this is practition for about PCP extensive to support country pass related 30 I suppose the architecture specified the 9 to 5 or 6 as our policy comprises 1 or more counting passes of which at a given time. 1, and only one may be active. each country pass in turn may have 1 or more delays of which one or more may be active. We might proceed the list are active and then traffic is spelled ballast. over the however, a canopy path is relatively under the once the list is active. This can be passed a validity criteria where a can't meet the need of some scenarios. parameters and can take us to control the validity judgment of count of candidate paths. This document defined businesses for signaling the validity parameters of accounting parts for SR Polys. So sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "Okay. Yes. This is the most recent, the condition past validity criteria, defined ERC next two 506. economy to the meet the needs of the following scenarios. just can pass 1 hertz a total of 200 megabyte of traffic when it's a policy wide to follow paste hashing 08 is similar list with a reasonable 30% that has each segmental list of 100 megabyte of traffic. And at this time, if one of the sentimental list is emulates, but the the remaining segmentalized can't meet, carry 200 megabyte traffic. However, 20 plus, why it's still active? And the draft draft IT RPC segmented routing policy defense as our policy association. And as our company pass, are the members of this association. we define the CP validityTR way into as a policy as a way object. to signal the validity control parameters of a county pass. This is a format of the if you wanted it to it your way, it mainly includes the 2 parameters 1st days, while it SL, quoted it indicates minimum members of a valid second place. and active country pass. as usual, indicates no requirement for SR SL positivezeroxff in the case that the company passed is considered valid only if all the signal is up. well late. And the second is valid sialwait. full appetite."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "field which indicates the men minimal minimum value of some of the weights of the value a second list, and its active can take pass. 0 indicates those requirements for weights. 0 xff555. indicates that the carrier passed is considered well laid only a all the second delays are well late, Comments work, Thank you. It it also to dump it had made a prioritization in ITR and I have received a comment from Jira and and I will think about it. It's a question about the intolerable reason. in the operation issues, I will I will reply on the mail list. Thank you. you know, just bigger. my when I first read the document, I went and looked at the spring document. because I was kinda glad to see that there was something to find in the spring also a similar document in spring called flexible candidate paths. but there's and it seems to overlap a little bit with this solution. Like, it seems to cover some of the similar topics about validity. So in this might be more of a topic for spring, but it might be worth checking to see if those two documents are proposing the same solution for for this topic? You mean is framework group. There is a similar -- Yes. No. I have read that this draft. and oh, yes. I will to do the Yes. For less draft, I think mainly folks on how to choose the county path. But but our draft is mainly defined how to defund the validity of validity criteria of Pentipass I think it's a tip. different than the fox. Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just one tiny comment. the TLV This is not a piece of TLV format. we use type and length a little different. I think this coming maybe from the BGP. side. So it should follow the PSAP TLV. format. is -- Which is where the type is to update length to Oktit and then we have the value, not 1 Oktit the type in length Anyway, I can discuss this with you. Okay. Thank you. I think because you have documents in -- Yeah. -- BGP as well, so you might have used the same Same TLV, care as well. But our format is a little bit different. Okay. Thank you. No problem. Next is me. everyone. I'll be talking about a new document which is about auto bandwidth, something that we kinda missed. in the auto bandwidth RFC, so which we are trying to fix. this document So on behalf of authors, we have Rakesh, me, and Chupeng. worked on this. Rakesh and I earlier worked on auto bandwidth as well. And when this problem was noticed, we try to sort of fix it. So just a quick update about what auto bandwidth is. We know the feature had existed for the long longest time. In PSF, we standardize it so that in case of PC initiated and this all the auto bandwidth knobs we could carry within the piece of protocol itself. And how we did that was via auto bandwidthattributelv, which we carry in the LSPA object. Basically, if the TLV exist, autobank width feature is enabled. And if the TLV goes is not there, that means we disable the feature. This TLV has multiple sub TLVs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "And those were the ones where all the attributes Go in. And the text is basically we carry if the subtile exist, only if there is a change. Like, once I've reported some value, if the value isn't changing, there is no need for me to carry this up TLV. every time. So only reason to carry a subtler would be when the value changes. and some of them had default values as well. which were clearly specified that these sub TLVs These are the default values, and some of them do not have a a default value. So now what happens is in a case when I set a particular attribute, but I wanna remove it. I don't want to set that attribute anymore. we don't have a very good mechanism to encode that Because if you don't carry the TLV, That could means no change. So how do I say go back to default or remove, So that's the issue that we were facing. The only workaround was to remove the whole auto bandwidth feature. That means don't encode the outer TLV. then encode it again with the updated value, which seems pretty, pretty like, not a good solution. So our suggestion to fix this was of can we use a special value of all zeros in the value portion of this sub TLV, to indicate restore to default. And restore to default would be If the sub TLV has a default value set, then basically you are going back to that default value. And if the default value is not set, That means you are removing that associated attribute going forward forward. So here, you see a list of all the sub TLVs. and their default values, as you know, some of them don't have a default value. And especially for them, we have an issue because with default value, you can send the TLV with the default value, and, yeah, that's fine. But, especially, for ones which we don't have a default value, we don't have a good mechanism. So this was up,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "thinking that we had, which will be the least like, you know, it's a simple enough way for us to solve this problem. So this is gonna be the update to RFC 87 33. clearly saying that, like, all zeros is a special value. You should not think of it as an error case. because in some cases, we are clearly saying that 0 might go into an error condition. So we don't want that to happen. So it's it's look for the special value first and if that the value is 0, And if you have a default s mechanism to it, basically go back to the same thing. If default value is set, Restore to default. If no default value, remove the attribute. And just so that we can do this in a backward compatible We thought we can add one flag as well. The flag we can indicate. whether this special value of 0 is understood or not. If it is not understood, that means cannot rely on 0, you might fail. So handle with there. So here's an example. suppose we had a PC initiated LSP. We had sample interwear. of 600 adjustment into interval for 2 days, adjustment threshold, 10 MBPS, Now if I wanna remove the adjustment threshold, aisle cans, carry the sub TLV, put a special value of all 0. And on receiving this, adjustment threshold will be removed for that particular LSB. And for default values, as you can see, like, if you take a sample interval case, You can, of course, Go back, and user default value as well. So both options exist So what happens if we have an RFC 8733 implementation and an implementation that supports this basically the zedflag can help us in figuring this out. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "And if you don't support it, basically, you have to go back to the The only mechanism that you have is to disable and enable auto bandwidth again. That's the only way forward. Okay. So do we wanna fix this? is update to rfc8733 the reasonable thing, Anything else that you wanna say about this. floor is open. Would you do the the You manage any question from the audience. from the room or from people remote. No feedback means Left. least At least you have thoughts on, like, you know, does it makes sense to fix this? or it's not a big problem. maybe maybe Let's just Pick that up. Take that up. from the implementations that we know this was flagged by the implementers that, yes, we are facing this issue. And that's why as authors of 8733, we came fix it, I can ask them to share their experience on the mailing list as well. Maybe that would help in generating some discussion. because otherwise, people wanna just get done with session. Oh, we have John going. We have a feedback from the list from Boris who says that that sounds reasonable. Oh, go ahead. Sorry that I didn't put myself in the queue. I just in trying to, like, create some life on the floor at all here. I I'm I'm not by any means the most expert person in this room on the protocol. But, you know, I I thought you're case where it was persuasive, so I would be in favor of proceeding forward personally. It's just speaking with no hats on my head. Thank you. Next, Tungsten, So last and no slides, I guess. Could you join us? Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "Oh, great. So I I think first time we have no slides in our. Hi. My name is Sean Turner. No slides because it would be be one slide saying, like, hey. I'd like a working group last call. So I didn't think there was kinda much point to it. we have a draft. It's a 00 version that was actually submitted to the working group, I guess, in, like, June. But it's done. So I'm hoping that we can just go ahead and just do the working group last call and get it over with. I know there's a pecking order, and you guys have a a list of things that you wanna do, but I'm here to ask if we can maybe reprioritize these and just get this one done. The big changes to the last to the last version of the document really was trying to put in some implementation advice for what to do with TLS 1.3. when you have tails 1.2. So we think that makes it it makes it it's a much better document. It's just being like, if you were just gonna do TLS 1.3, it gives implementers a little bit more and information. So that's it. So I don't I don't know what the process is other than saying of, like, a workgroup last call. Thanks, Sean. So this is we would like, Julian and I discussed it, we do wanna move this forward. But at the same time, we wanna give working group a chance to let us know that If they have any concerns with it, otherwise, we would put this up on the queue as the next thing to working with PlusCall. So if anybody, especially the folks who might be going down in the queue, If you have any concerns, you can reach out to us. Otherwise, we are going ahead. Yeah. Great. Cool. And I guess the only thing I need to say is there's another there's another draft in in in NetComm, and this draft mirrors exactly that. the text there. So they're kind of, like, in lockstep. So I think that's a good thing. So that's allowing one to add. Thanks. what's the current status? It's -- So that one that one's through that one's through a second working group last just to go it out. So it's basically on its way to the ISG. Any moment in the minute I get off my butt and write some stuff. wanna go and do the right of form."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "Yeah. So I think, like, you know, if the document goes to ISC together, that's next Yeah. things easier as well. Right. Yeah. Cool. Alright. Thanks. Any other working group business? Anything else that folks wants to talk about we have 15 minutes. No. Enjoy your 15 minutes. Julian, do you have any last words? No. That works. As see someone joining the queue. I don't know if it's question, like, to draft. Yeah. but I think no audio coming. If use the chat. Use the mailing list. We are giving people their 15 minutes. Bye. Thank you, everyone. Hope to see you in Prague. 5 Yes. q, q, q, q, q, q, q, q, q, q, q, q, Okay. Thank you. the same time"
  }
]
