[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] I come on I converted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:52",
    "text": "so should we start or should we wait for me we we were waiting for melee but I I don\u0027t know how much faintly do you think leaves coming soon or should we just start so how are s timothy\u0027s it maybe I should wait two minutes for homework wow this is gonna be a cat moment so and and they\u0027ll be much more fun if you enjoy the well I\u0027m just gonna back bencher so it\u0027s kind of little unnerving to be in the front so we should probably we\u0027ll start with the administrivia is he gonna be here in a couple minutes we\u0027ll go ahead then so welcome to trill hi John wave to John on the on the monitor John Hudson\u0027s working on the monitor hi John anyway welcome to trill we\u0027ll go ahead John Donald is secretary and doing lots of our reviews for us I\u0027m sue Harris in case you\u0027re listening remotely on this recording later go ahead this is a note well can\u0027t read it we\u0027ve been this working groups been really good about putting inside PR together so thank you go ahead next doctor we were in our last run to the finish line so thank you all for reading the docs Thank You Fenway for working hard please help with joint review we\u0027ve got how many documents Donald will come to the list so guys we\u0027ve got a lot to do to get to the finish line everything\u0027s about there much of this has gone through two or three reps but we\u0027ve got to push through to get through a whole bunch in eight weeks so take a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:52",
    "text": "deep breath now Donald our thing is agenda bashing status then we need to hear about the smart nodes because that\u0027s important same way and Donald\u0027s got group keen and those are two that we\u0027ve got some technical moments to finish and then we\u0027ll wrap up okay do you wanna you know we can do this in a tag team if you want to try that or do you want to keep reading we have to our seats thank goodness the hi guys I it\u0027s hard to find this isn\u0027t it come on up to the front it\u0027s boring we\u0027ve had this is this is our last sitting around the table well in it sit up in front don\u0027t be shy we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna have a bit of fun we have to RFC\u0027s published the MTU yes and the ultimate forum for multi-level and our optimization went today woohoo that\u0027s it that\u0027s a really good one I\u0027ll go ahead we\u0027ve got two in publications requested state so Ali\u0027s got two new ones and McDonald\u0027s and I\u0027ve got the four of these drafts where we\u0027ve done Shepherd reports and I bet Donald I can get involved on this week so we\u0027ll see I may have to pay up with beer later that\u0027s a dress blush these are all pants working group let\u0027s call they just need Shepherd so if you see anything like this the ship will need the smart endnotes discussion today thing--we I think the p2m p BP didn\u0027t you release that today expiring but didn\u0027t you didn\u0027t you make some change yeah but you didn\u0027t he did the changes right well that\u0027s right and I just gave that lecture to Alex earlier so you know this end of the Carlos hi please confirm that you know send a message to him saying please I made the changes confirm the two like these because last time he confirmed and said no I didn\u0027t you know absolutely they weren\u0027t there is what he said yes did I miss anything else on the BFD okay this is a tag-team don\u0027t truck in working through plastic all those directory assisted in caps multi ecology and transport over MPLS so please send a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:56",
    "text": "comment in I think we\u0027re about to close directory in epson multi topology transport over MPLS just went in so you guys could remember just look at it write a little comment and we\u0027ll get through that I put in questions every time I put it so just look at the questions and send about ok these are the drafts not listed above that we\u0027re going to go through in the next eight weeks so we\u0027ve got the group king the single nicknamed the unique nickname Donald\u0027s got a respect a trill over IP oh yeah we were going to take that out of that that\u0027s a lot of the headache there and we\u0027re not going to get done unless we D function are we ok with that that the the O who gave us the excellent Magnus Magnus whistle whistle whistling whistle yeah so if we go through everything we\u0027re not going to make it so my Donald suggested taking out net because that\u0027s a lot of complexity and you can just say it won\u0027t work with that just out of scope but someone wants to attack it they can write an individual parent selection and now the trail gang om Aliyah just so that I\u0027ve gone through it line went through so I have to take the OEM and since everything\u0027s got to be revised datastore this one\u0027s closer to revised datastore but then I\u0027ve got to check with detect and howthey and so the angel come in through his revised data stores I\u0027m just gonna deprecated it and then revise like I did with BGP okay that may mean that the yang mom has come from me and actually offered me the other people because the changes are pretty yeah okay what else did I miss Donald we talked through all this oh yes the IDR draft is in working group last call you would all do me a big favor as the IDR chair if you just sign on to IDR and say I support this you know just skin on the ID arm a list and say I like this crap we need it on the idea list no one\u0027s objected but no one\u0027s really supported yeah I mean you probably know but I\u0027m basically this is to say you can transmit the trill link state information in BGP but useful for SD and other kinds of things like that and there\u0027s a lot of there\u0027s a lot of late "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:01",
    "text": "link state information so okay next one we have two drafts that we\u0027ve been talking about but we sort of threaded after some of the security group security and link security we\u0027re gonna drop Eastlake trilling security right Donald yeah and but the trill data encoding and the vendor Channel we talked about and split out from other drafts so those are to you we were thinking because Donald had taken them out of the security to make it cleaner those who are gonna try to adopt this next week and pushed it you want to talk yeah let\u0027s talk about them for a sec are they\u0027re pretty mature the vendor channel one is really just a simple way so that these are our bridge channel messages between our Burridge\u0027s as the way as a way where vendors can have their own to find their own by putting a vendor o UI in there so I figure you know in if you if the working group it\u0027s not continued then there\u0027s no it\u0027s probably harder to get standardized things through and it may be more beneficial to provide this escape valve for vendors it\u0027s very simple draft the originating coding is a little bit more complicated but it\u0027s very mature than around for a while it\u0027s basically more efficient encoding on the wire so I think that\u0027s in pretty good shape I\u0027m not sure about that so that\u0027s it oh so you know of the twos I think the bender channel is is simpler and easier and it dates from quite a while ago and at the time it was the chip vendors were saying that they didn\u0027t want to do it yet because they wanted to see how things were going with drill and stuff so as far as I know it hasn\u0027t been implemented in hardware so you ve to do usefully do it for most applications that drill would involve fast path implementation it\u0027s simple but so I don\u0027t know decide really quick what we do it or not and you know III think we should try to go for adoption this option fails its way it is okay so we\u0027ll look and see if there\u0027s any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "serious interest donal go back Thanks I want to underscore that all of these six graphs that we are listing there have to go through in the next six weeks so we\u0027re next or during that\u0027s right yeah so a sponsor anyway so we need to get this stuff through so from now to the end of December is at six weeks hey six or eight in six weeks is the best way to get all of this done so that we can go ahead and then spend January and February getting it through this ice Jean so we really need to have you know go home tell the folks we really need to have enough when we do the calls it\u0027s not like we\u0027ve done it in the past it\u0027ll be two weeks and if we don\u0027t get enough we\u0027ll have to go on without it I think there\u0027s a Lea\u0027s Dettol if if you go back to what I have one more no other way I\u0027m sorry my bad all the ones that are in working who\u0027d last call and that at least got seven of these that she could already have going forward and then we\u0027re going to add another six that\u0027s a real lot for her to get through so we\u0027ve got to push these working group calls so and that\u0027s small so folks I\u0027m gonna thousand I\u0027m probably gonna send you lots of notes like please review an answer we got our optimization I\u0027m sorry that\u0027s a cheer for all the hard work bit you put in so folks we really have six weeks and a lot of these these lit this last call for directory and tab assistant and monthly through quality will probably close this week transport is two weeks and then we have six weeks or go ahead but we have six weeks for all these other documents so we have six documents so we\u0027ll probably do a probably groups of three the only thing that may hang over into January\u0027s the game documents and that\u0027s because only I don\u0027t know if I can get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:02",
    "text": "stuff and they\u0027ll probably okay with that okay that that\u0027s do you think that\u0027s it yang is got some problems but okay okay that\u0027s it Donald then I think we\u0027re on for the next one so in this one thing Lee I really need to know what well we\u0027ll go through the slide and then I have other questions yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s resolving the last comments so that\u0027s so just a traveling step on the trellis might under node so we and we update a traveler to version to version zero since we\u0027re down so some animation force Martin so under no that linen table especially in the Acura operates and the secondary is increasingly refreshed and another table and then you know also suppose a fine current neighbor a while under station so this is a motivation for this matter and the note and history when you have presenter so smart I know the drafter unit right have home okay so my god I\u0027d have a meet him from 818 618 8 and 19 1 and 19 for 95 and 98 Michi so so confident was the adopter as work graph or group who were drafted in December 2014 Tarawa yeah it\u0027s a 2014 so it it was it is three years since it has been an adoption so the karna state has its waiting for right half oh okay so I had changes from the NASA president presentation the first one is that we clarified that a mother I know is the type of wood trail yes I asked portico others entry AHA no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:07",
    "text": "because the Trahan oh and has an image that camiseta and the canola a generator general gen generally be fragmented and trail yes is as is during the use the Pitons and the nose and the average so we moved the content of the trahana ronita and we can verify that the smarter handle is a paper trail yes isis portico so this is the pace don\u0027t ever say 81-71 one more it\u0027s i thought there was one more bad book page 3 look that\u0027s fine you\u0027re on the right page could open each for please it\u0027s like forth okay so why yes yes okay that was a good clarification that was needed in the draft thank you very much that\u0027s the one one of the ones we needed and that\u0027s good that\u0027s a good clarification thank you that was one of the comments that one of the reviewers had thank you okay so next up to send each other we clarified SATA only the port director really messy there is a winnable and the portrait directory is not a supporter for this manner and another two populated so a magnetic resonance and trace so this is just second deck notification so the reason is that the smart and another station cannot support the Assadi and the Kannada Center is at the SP so if we used the pusher key rectory there is some security issue and I\u0027m really in teacher for the I don\u0027t know that to deal with it\u0027s not a message so we single smart unknown know the only support her poor dear emissary excellent this was another one we needed to see yeah so next we plan waikinya specified that the Marquis untraced a solution to so the megaphone even assured in my Holman money homey own scenario and that was a third issue yeah good yeah so the auditions each other way we added a trio yes is it was a terminology section excellent okay so wonderful yeah so it is attached into the fourth version 6 right I think we\u0027re ready um let me ask you three questions okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:09",
    "text": "have you gone through all the reviewers comments and responded to them and I think we have a solid solve them like like do we when we said to me we you need to respond to Carlos with the comments did you go back to the original now that you\u0027ve released that and say I fixed it please verify please tell me that you agree to the fix okay yeah mmm I think Anna\u0027s the commenter was a Brenda outer yes Massa I have assembled an email to talk I\u0027m Afra we are this is her vitae version to version there are four or Jerry\u0027s right but there was one other and another comment that\u0027s okay I will double-check we just need to double check on that this week today tomorrow we should double check on that okay so that we\u0027ve sent it back because you you\u0027ve you\u0027ve done what we asked you last time thank you that was that was really good I don\u0027t recall anything else no I think good job that\u0027s a really good job you answered everything you did a thorough job really pleased that\u0027s it thank you we\u0027ll push for the I\u0027m gonna do all the checks in them will push for publication okay another one on your Thanksgiving [Laughter] [Music] [Laughter] okay so talk about the goop King draft which is work move draft and what needs to be done to finish things up there so just go over a little bit what it does so still Trent troll standardizes communication protocols that need security services sometimes encryption and authentication and for those to work you need to get keys distributed to the places so and particularly to meet modern security standards the keys need to be periodically we negotiated refresh you know you need some form of dynamic keying scheme I mean you can also support fixed keys but it\u0027s not if that\u0027s all your support you don\u0027t really meet modern criterion so most of the existing trills all existing troll security is unicast so it\u0027s got stuff so you can secure things point-to-point the trill over IP draft uses IPSec bichri - and there\u0027s also these are Birds channel "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:09",
    "text": "messages which are control messages that are not is is their eyes eyes has its own security features which are also of course available to troll but garbage control channel messages are a different kind of thing treci look like data messages but are actually control messages so those use DTLS and that\u0027s fine but they the thing is that both of these could be multicast you could have orbital messages that are sent to all the stations in a VLAN you can have trill data which is multicast data and so the if you have an IP network that supports native multicast and you\u0027re doing trill over IP in that network you\u0027d want to use that so that means some way to kind of secure these messages you know a multicast group so these are just a list of the ways you can do this sort of thing you can only see really a unicast so if you have point-to-point security you can just use a bunch of point-to-point links and send if there\u0027s a hundred things in the group you can send 100 copies well that\u0027s not really necessarily two grades from efficiency quite a few you can distribute a shared secret to the group so that\u0027s pretty efficient because now you can just send it once you the underlying multicast data distribution but using this one its group key to secure it there is the problem that other members of the group can generally forge the source address that doesn\u0027t include originator authentication if you use a shared group key you can use public key cryptography which will lets you solve that problem but it\u0027s very inefficient like orders of magnitude more inefficient than the shared group key and there\u0027s even more exotic things you might be able to do but are pretty complicated so the idea is that in this draft is to use the approach to a shared secret key so somehow you have to get the shared secret key distributed to the members of the group so they all have it and if there\u0027s a case where there are some messages where the fact that any member of the group could Forge remember a message showing a source address of any other member so you don\u0027t have like originator authentication in those those are fairly rare cases I think and in those cases you can still always fall back to doing serial unicast do serve a unicast at the point-to-point security you don\u0027t have any question because if you receive something securely over a point-to-point Channel it must have come from the other end so you know where the origin was so the existing graph displays a generic way to distribute keys to a group and it assumes that it\u0027ll be profiled for any particular use that profiling mostly includes how to determine which is the designated member of the group that\u0027s sending out the keys and controlling the keying for the group at any particular time and also the envelope so the the group de janeiro group keying protocol in the air that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:09",
    "text": "does not really specify any envelope so you need to like a PFD message should you need to specify how it\u0027s a envelope to address for a particular use so there are two profiles in the current draft one for the Arbor channel message case and one for the trill over IP case so it uses the pairwise keying it\u0027s in place to do secure distribution of the group key soon as you have do have pairwise security in place and yeah that\u0027s pretty much what it does so you can distribute a group key and it can be in use then you can distribute the next generation of group key and then after you\u0027ve gotten it distributed to all the stations you can then send out a message telling them to switch to using the newer key so you don\u0027t have to you can kind of minimize the problem of a period of time when you don\u0027t have a valid group key out there it also in the case where you don\u0027t have a valid key for any reason you can always say always fall back to serve a unicast even though it\u0027s not for a efficient so this is so this glue King thing is really just about keying the actual data for map is is a different question so for the Phil over IP it uses the IPSec data format enveloping and stuff and for the the our channel case it uses the DTLS data format so this is an example there\u0027s a designated node distributing kita the group members this is what the mesenteric messengers look like there\u0027s some sort of native point-to-point security envelope around the whole thing there\u0027s a minimum amount of headers outside then there\u0027s a user\u0027s key wrap and has the actual keying material and stuff inside this inner key wrap so proposed changes when as to split it into two graphs so the generic group keying mechanism will be in a separate graph that disk covers that and the trill specific profiling would be in a separate draft so there\u0027s two graphs and the only change to the generic group keying mechanism is supposed is to add agility for the key wrap algorithm currently uses AES key wrap there are may be other group key wraps algorithms in the future it has algorithm agility for other things but not for the actual key wrap algorithm currently so I think that would be making more acceptable security people and the profiling is complete for the Arbor Channel case the trill of our IPA is a little bit more work so let\u0027s finish that up so those are the proposed changes to the draft this is actually in more detail about the splitting two graphs should that doing that should make security review easier the security people won\u0027t be tripping over this troll specific stuff that may not know that much about and if there\u0027s any update needed to either part should be easier I actually did this I think it\u0027s likely "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:10",
    "text": "there will be a cha-cha key rap graph written very soon so there will be alternative to AES because cha cha it\u0027s more efficient in software so that you don\u0027t have hardware aes support there\u0027s a good reason to have an alternative so as they complete the trill over IP profiling so anyway so I plan to soak to unless there\u0027s some objection in the room here it\u0027s supposed a message if anybody objects to these things and assuming there was any objection do it and so my hope I\u0027d like to sort of close off on that issue since if you could send that request today yep and then if we could have just a two or three day of you know just a days yeah I think you should wait maybe 48 hours or 48 hours yeah they\u0027re you know end of the week but then if you could make those changes and we could start again things down on this is working six weeks of working group last calls hopefully we\u0027ll get everything through you know Ali it\u0027s got a lot of reading and this is a lot of work yes I just wanted to clarify because I\u0027m happy to push these work the drafts through I don\u0027t want you to think that I am saying I haven\u0027t asked other ideas 280 sponsor documents they\u0027re left because I don\u0027t think that the work is worth a while it\u0027s the reason that I\u0027m doing this push is because I feel that the working group does not have the energy that a lot of these documents are there everything we\u0027ve been pushing a number of documents through in the last couple of years but we need to just get these done I don\u0027t that having more time would cause them to be better or to have more energy for them to be completed I feel that what\u0027s really needed is the deadline it\u0027s not an estimation of the quality or the amount of work that you all have put in I really do appreciate that so I just want to be clear this isn\u0027t unhappiness the quality of the documents that have been coming through is excellent and I do usually have very few specificity comments I mean sometimes I catch stuff but the key message is it\u0027s good work but a lot of it just it just needs to get finished because of the stage where the working group is in the size and energy in the room so I just wanted to clarify that you know I really do appreciate the work you\u0027re doing and my push is to make sure that we capture all of that effort and energy and good ideas that are needed thank you okay and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:10",
    "text": "think that\u0027s the end of things again we could really use help help all the people get through the drafts I counted ten or so drafts after we added two so that we\u0027re trying to get all these through to RFC back out count ten with the group splitting ninety nine okay I miscounted one anyway that\u0027s it for today thank you very much for all the hard work thank you for the all smart end nodes work and the ARP optimization work it\u0027s really good we have another one okay so I think you\u0027ve gotten everything tied up on those and thank you I\u0027m having just sinned "
  }
]