[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "[Music] all righty it is the top of the hour we'll give another two minutes just to let people wander in it's not a huge amount of people around at the moment I am accepting volunteers for a note taker I am technically slightly sick so it'd be good if somebody else would um help out I will try and help out as [Music] well and oddly we seem divorced from the data tracker today so um the documents aren't available in the in Meo for some reason not sure why because I definitely uploaded some slides but so people planning on presenting will need to present themselves or have me do it uh from a slide deck just as a [Music] warning hey whiz um Thomas here I think could you present my PDF because my computer never works with MCO yeah grab them I will have to bug the tools team later as to why the documents aren't loading this morning it's common when they don't load like you upload them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "like at the same time as the meeting but usually they're much better if it's uploaded a long time ago and they definitely were so all right Thomas I have your slides all right so let's go ahead and get started um this is as you probably guessed the secure asset transfer protocol working group interim meeting on April 9th 2024 the day after an eclipse uh this is an official ATF working group meeting so we do follow the note well uh which means that you need to be careful about things you say with respect to IPR and things like that uh if you're unsure consult a lawyer uh working group information everybody attending here probably already knows all this we have three documents sort of inflate at the moment uh mailing list and all that stuff uh the agenda today um is fairly full um the introduction the last call responses are going to go pretty quickly um so that that's the end of the introduction um if anybody has additional things you want to discuss today uh we can do a quick any other business people want to bring up that's not on this agenda all right um I think Claire is about half here so do ahead and you know it's a small group do ahead and and unmute uh if I failed to see your hand in a in a Q fashion by the way um quick note about last call responses so two weeks ago we put out a call for four weeks ago we put out a call for last working group Last Call on the um the architecture document um I have reviewed those um I don't have a slide for this sorry um we reviewed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "those comments uh there was a good discussion about security considerations and whether um some additional work was needed there and we'll we can open the floor to talk about that in a minute but um given the lack of General responses there was really only two or three uh clar and I decided let's extend the call for another two weeks um what that really means is a couple of things one uh you know if anybody if you haven't had the chance to read it you know there's a little bit more time to do so and two if you have read it and you support its publication you should say that even if you have no other comments um having a document go forward that only has a couple of people saying they support it going forward really isn't enough we need more working group participants to be able to um to support it so uh please consider at least writing in and saying you know it's good from your point of view and it should go forward um having said that I think we'll need an update um with respect to the security related discussions um there is uh just a bit uh ietf history-wise it is common to put a decent security consideration section in the document um sometimes there is a separate document that discusses security security threat model um so that is entirely up to essentially the document authors of whether they would rather roll it in there or not um so I will leave that up to the group does anybody have comments or thoughts on the you know I know that that Thomas you actually or somebody rev the document with um some new sections about security consideration um I guess what I'm really wondering today is does anybody feel that that discussion is unresolved from their point of view I I I I don't feel comfortable with going ahead with the architecture document with the uh I with the security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "as it is now okay um thanks David um what do you feel is the is needed the most in in that regard you know I mean some additional text was put in I think you wanted to see something significant more explicit I well I'm not I'm not you know I don't feel I'm not I don't feel I'm an expert on this technology so I can't specify all the potential threats although even just looking at our message exchange protocol you see points at which their security but always I feel that experts could see uh many more and I many I think some some of the mitigations for those security threats probably would involve interaction between the gateways and I just uh you know it's just a feeling that we sort so have to consider this a great deal more before we say the architecture documents is complete okay that makes sense um I I will say that there are two different sides to the security threat issue right so this is the architecture document not the protocol document and there's a very different set of um of analysis that needs to happen there but um the architecture document certainly should have a decent enumeration of here are the weak points in the architecture that need to be fixed by the protocol or something like that um okay uh thank you David anybody else have comments all of this of course will go back to the list Thomas oh actually thank you David I actually agree 100% with David uh and also um you're right um where's there's actually two places where we need to talk about this so there's the architecture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "document and um we need to add like a security threats security and threats section towards the back just to convey to the reader that uh we are aware of the possible attacks uh that are actually uh stemming from the two-phase three-phase commit protocol I mean it's this is you know 40 years old now and so people are very aware about you know how you could disrupt a two-phase commit so that's one one Whatever SE section you know half a page of page in architecture now for the um satp core yeah I mean I agree with with David we we need to add stuff you know considerations threat considerations to the end of sat core because that is the protocol document and that's where like all this you know signatures uh over claims signature over receipts and all that stuff so so yeah um you know definitely we need help from people to to break break satb core please like you know go through it and um we we can talk about it you know later on when when I present the update but yeah agree absolutely all right thanks uh Thomas yeah so in particular um what what I'm hearing is that there's definitely um we need to spin on the architecture document for a little while longer and uh there's multiple people that believe that there are additional security considerations that are needed for that document and then of course there will be more for the core document which isn't yet near last call but it's it's closer so um I hear that loud and clear and I and Claire and I will talk about it my guess is um that the result of the last call Will essentially be not quite ready yet but we've identified additional things that are needed and we will um will put it you know back into a a a state of of not yet ready for publication to the ASG yet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "will go on to the core document all right seeing none uh Thomas uh it's up to you I will share your document sure thank you uh W go ahead and start talking for a minute yeah so uh uh quick update on satore so um Wes actually um submitted a number of very good comments and we're still going through it but um one of them was just simple um uh re relabeling renaming the apis because originally we had called you know three types of apis API type one type two type three but then when we were doing the network identifier document with wager we started saying uh what is it address type one address type two so the word type one type two type three was like going to be very confusing to people and so we said why why don't we just call it API 1 API 2 API 3 so it's just uh quick uh relabeling renaming of the apis number and number two our our our Focus for satp core is in fact the interaction you know through API 2 and so what we did was to move um the the entire discussion about you know API 1 and API 3 to the appendix um really because we don't want to lose the text and we don't want to lose all the work that's gone into it and so it's kind of in the appendix right now uh and the working group would need to figure out you know going forward uh what do we do with this do we have a separate draft on each of the apis um I mean I I personally believe we need to you know have somewhere maybe a separate document on API 1 and API 3 because uh that's that that needs to be standardized right um particularly API"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "API 1 because it's on the Gateway side uh API 3 is going to be difficult because for example if Gateway G2 was you know validating the sender the the originator and beneficiary you know identities be it you know x509 and VCS and so on it has to call out to some offet resource and that offet resource or service will all probably already have its own API definition like you know whether it's AWA open ID connect whether it's you know um the you know x509 U you know validation you know services so but but that's that's kind of you know a future work uh next next slide please can I stop you there for one question yeah please yeah any yeah so I mean that all of that makes sense the um the remaining question that I have is API 1 and three um and you may think of names that aren't you know numeric but we can't specify them now they're out of scope so are you wording the document in such a way that this is essentially you know future work um and most importantly API 2 which is really the core document will work regardless of whether there's standardization between the rest of the apis right that's right yes yes so so correct this is autoscope uh it's more like a reminder the call to folks here like help us you know deal with API 1 and API 3 because that's future work okay David do you have a comment yeah just I was just wondering a a question on diagram uh isn't the client on network well on the network I mean the implication is it's not from the diagram right so so the the client so there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "two versions of this diagram actually so there's the sender so there's the originat client so this is a human being driving you know an application and say an Enterprise application and it's talking to its you know Gateway whether it's a Gateway that it runs or it's you know run by a service provider like like Swift so it's it's it's a real application so therefore another version of this diagram is that there's the there's client one and client two you know so the there's the user a and user B and I think I think David you've probably seen this before user a and user B and they're both talking to their own gateways through API one and I think um remember Dennis presented you know this interesting diagram where in fact uh the expectation in the real world would be that uh there is a uh of band um sort of dialogue interaction going on between user a and user B to to essentially negotiate like I want to send you this asset of this class and so on and so on so so all of that happens out of band and once the application you know app one and app two agree about this then they invoke the gateways through API 1 and that's where satp sort of kicks in uh but yeah no I we could we could we could put another version of this where there are sort of app one and app two are you saying that someone who's not on saying net Network nw1 can access the Gateway uh uh uh we're saying that you can access G1 either directly um from app app one through API 1 to Gateway one uh uh or you can uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "send some kind of a local transaction on network one nw1 that would be detected and picked up by G1 so both both models occur to that's what what is happening today in out there but it's out of scope for satb so we we can't say you know we you know both modes there probably three or four different modes of how gateways yeah yeah so that could happen thank you who's this is nice who's who's who's the who's where's I drawing this that was mine I was I was just marking up the PDF slides oh awesome no this is this is good this is really what David is saying right the client actually is inside the network and we could rearrange to do that correct yeah yeah for for Simplicity we've just put it out say okay here is it's talking through api1 that's right yeah but but that's a good point we could change the diagram so that the client becomes inside the network um so th sorry for interrupting I disagree with the fact of putting the client inside the network it may not be the case at all there might be applications that actually are uh running a different completely different environment that may have an interaction with network one but they not necessarily be inside Network one well so there's so this is where we get into a confusion right because when when the network here is not necessarily the logical internet related Network it is the uh network with respect to the asset ownership Network which may or may not be overlaid onto an IP network uh we're we're duplicating the usage of the word network which is actually kind of a problem on that one should should should we call it just asset Network like like put the word a I don't want say a a as there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "in some slides in the past we use also the the word system there but uh it may be even more confusing but I don't know I mean there is something that definitely Network one manages the asset now whether the client is part of this asset Network or not I believe that it would be too constraining if we put the uh the app client up inside the network actually it works only if it is a DT and the client is some sort of smart contract eventually but it may not be the case at all so we can run a you know like a typically you have asset custodians that may managing the asset Network and the clients are in a different completely different network or system no no it's thank thank you Dennis no that's that's right this is this is the difficulty is we're trying to convey uh something that that is complex on the other side Just Between the client application and the interaction with with the asset Network or the Gateway both are both are possible both models and so you know um I don't know I mean Dennis if if we fix the diagram to include that green arrow um you know um yeah yeah that my definitely be the case I I think yeah let take this this problem to the list we are going to ran out of time and I want to give both Rama and Alexandre a last chance to comment but then we'll move on I think that we have a direction and a path forward and a discussion that needs to happen on the list which is the purpose of a meeting so Rama uh thanks V yeah I was actually going to say what something similar to what Dennis said the the way these networks are architectured your your clients are completely separable from the network which is really the asset management and transaction processing uh engine uh but yeah we can have the conversation later so I think the way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "this diagram structured is actually okay uh on the early question that uh Thomas was asking uh AP both API 1 and API 3 are exercised only in stage uh I mean API 1 is exercise in stage zero right and API 3 I'm not sure where it's exercise but it's probably uh somewhere outside so I think stage zero was anyway not meant to be within the scope right so I don't know if we need to do we need to even talk about it in the appendix or should we just create another draft uh Futures uh like you know we have other drafts that we' created for future consultation you should probably put it in that yeah what terrific I hear a volunteer for someone to write um a draft on stage zero well played Thomas uh yeah so yes I volunteer I volunteer for that sorry yeah I I yeah I take that yeah no because agree Dennis yeah y Rama and Dennis work together on that multiple authors is always a good thing but yes that's a future document for future uh Charter items Alexandre and then we'll move on to the next yeah most most of what I wanted to mention has already been said but essentially yeah it does make a difference whether client is inside the network or outside the network um but both should be possible um so we'll take that on the mailing list uh probably we can have a two options for the diagram one with the client asign one one outside yeah both options enable different use cases as Rama and Dennis said okay great uh you want to go to the next slide yes thanks Alex next actually this is just the the words of what I just said in you know verbally so next slide please uh yeah so the other change I'm I'm I'm reading I'm reading through the text that I wrote Whatever six months and I'm like who wrote this this is awful so um so I said I'm going to fix it so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "basically um there there was um multiple descriptions words for the same thing so I said let's let's just be very specific and so Gateway signature public key pair is mandator this is the key pair that is used by the gateway to sign claims and to sign receipts that are uh has obligation it could it could incur legal and financial obligation right so this is UN unque per Gateway so that's you have to have this mandatory second one that we assumed away of course in in and also in many other documents is this the Gateway may use a different key pair to establish a secure Channel such as a TLS um channel right uh and and because it's a the session Thomas I lost your audio you might mute and unmute Thomas no audio from you can you mute your microphone and then unmute it might be a me EO side otherwise it's a local side on your side uh oh Thomas crashed there we go he's back still don't hear you Thomas seems like you're trying to talk but I don't actually hear audio"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "you might completely reload the red yeah rejoin exactly okay can uh can you hear me now folks now you're good go go ahead okay yeah so so uh and the other uh remaining key pair is uh optional so if if a Gateway wants to use some Hardware device identity that's you know bound to the actual physical Hardware great it's optional but we want to put text there to recognize that some some of this heavyduty you know banking systems actually have this capability and then also optional maybe even you know contentious is that we've always worked with the assumption that that gateways and Gateway services are run you know by somebody just like you know routers are owned by isps and so it could be that there's some mechanism in the future in the Gateway where you can fetch you know do a get or read of the you know say x509 you know certificate of the owner the business owner of the Gateway so that you can you know you can see okay it's a it's a legitimate business it's got an Lei you know legal entity identifier number it's got a business number and so on and so on but but those the last two are like optional so if um if I'm missing anyone folks anything please let me know next slide please uh uh so this is just a quick you know text consisteny thing so this is version 19 of the flow diagram uh I'm going to update it to version 20 and let let people know and it's up on the on both GitHub repos now thank you rapael very diligent of you to actually make a copy but we're moving uh just the flow so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "basically the dotted red line for stage two just moves up by two flows so now sort of officially transfer commence and at commment is part of stage two whereas you know for the last couple of years we've just Loosely assigned it to stage one um yeah that that's that's my update um where it yeah thank you all right thanks uh one any have questions or comments otherwise we're a little over time but uh I'll remind everybody that this uh the the the active working group documents always take precedence TimeWise all right uh thank you Rafael I will go look at your I I'll go find your slides but in the meantime um Rama you have the next sure uh thanks v i I don't have anything to present I just wanted to give a quick uh update so I can do that BB so um if everybody remembers there was fair amount of uh back and forth on the mailing list uh in the last quarter of last year and and some in January uh around new use cases these are proposed by uh Peter chuni Lee and also by Victor jao and uh so uh after having a quick discussion with Thomas uh I have uh I've added some text to the uh use cases draft representing three specific just calling out three specific scenarios uh one of them being uh scenario around an um uh excising stock options which uh uh does not bring out a new flavor of satp but it it just illustrates how the flavors of satp that we have shown as can be used in the trade scenario or in the financial uh d versus payment scenario can also be applied for exising"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "stock options so it it's just a somewhat more complex derivative trading scenario and uh I think it does add some value to the uh to the use cases draft uh so that's one use case there's another one where uh we we had earlier talked about we had a use case around uh trade of uh digital art across networks and uh to that uh I added another use case uh involving the payment payments for or pay as you go for uh streaming services where the there's a Content streaming Network and there's a payments Network separate and uh we need some way of uh fulfilling uh the uh of ensuring that uh whatever content is bought on the content streaming network is paid for on the payments Network and that has happened in cordination so uh that's a use case for interoperation using satp MO as listed in the architecture draft uh and finally there was the use cases around uh the DNS records um uh which is proposal really to add some kind of or augment the EP or the extensible provisioning protocol uh which I I kind of realized somewhat relatedly but uh that uh use case which I think best you gave a lot of great comments and uh Victor also had responded on the on the mailing on the meaning uh list uh there the way we are pitching it as a as a use case because um uh as you guys discussed this uh this use case is uh can be quite complex and it one might uh upon reading uh think that this requires a complete overhaul of the DNS architecture or or the EP uh protocol as currently specified in the rscs but how we are framing it we can frame it is uh say is showing that uh just like the sappy protocol is really a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "provides support for other kinds of protocols which you know you have two networks or or two apps that are trying to negotiate something that negotiation sort of happens in stage zero and uh the part where the tokens have to be or or rather an asset has to be completely transferred from one n to another is what the two gateways are trying to fulfill that's happen in stages one through one onwards so we we're framing this as uh the EP if if the regist and the Registries actually wish to maintain uh DNS records on uh distributed ledgers then they can have a more secure uh and Safe Way of uh uh uh ensuring coordinated EP updates whenever uh a domain has to be transferred from the pview of one regist to another regist in a different network and uh if if you actually meet that scenario then sap is is quite is quite crucial to that so that's the way we are framing it so I will uh make some updates and I'll also uh send the notification the mailing list so I would like people to uh uh comment on that uh just see what you feel about the text if you feel that the use case are compelling uh if you feel that the use case actually detract from main purpose of satp then uh we probably should not have them but uh this is the update I want to give so three use cases all right thanks Rama um if anybody has questions please now is a good time um so I guess raama from a chair's perspective one piece of advice would be remember that the use case document is does not need a extreme level of detail right it doesn't need to solve the problem it's really uh the you know that the the the set protocol could possibly be used in these context so um with respect to Victor and my conversation about you know how how well that will work um it's just fine to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "not have to go into the level of detail that he and I were going into about whether or not it will work that's a future you know uh problem to be solved but I think you know that already so thanks yeah you're cling it as a as a motivating use Ju Just actually quick procedural question was I mean c can the use case document um you know proceed ahead into last call before architecture and and core gets to last call uh technically yes it can um so a couple of things one the use case document probably ought to reference the architecture um because it's sort of you know it's it's would be an isolation otherwise uh but yes so the ETF has a has Notions of uh holding public final publication until a uh until all the references have been handled so there are times where internet drafts have actually just sat around for over a year or even longer just waiting for the a document that they're referencing to be published so they end up being grouped together in the RFC editor stream um so that's well handled by by the ATF you know process entirely so don't worry about that um just put the reference in and that'll actually automatically trigger a hold okay [Music] thanks [Music] all right uh hearing nothing else uh Thomas you want to give us an update on the identifier design team update which I know probably doesn't have slides and you said well it would be 10 minutes either so great yes so uh I think um uh the the status um so so maybe about a month ago six weeks ago there was an email from wager that explained in in actual text on the email uh um the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "design the update to the design of the network identifier identifying scheme uh and so the next thing for us for way and I to do is to actually update the draft you know uh move the text from the mailing list to the draft and so that that's that's on up plates to do um one item that was still um open was that um for the type three address so this you know this is this is for um monolithic uh systems so um this refers to either databases or real time rtgs realtime gross settlement systems uh in particular in the banking sector to have the Bic number big number and so um in a different discussion a different Forum I actually asked um the folks from from Swift and a couple of banks there and the way they architected is that the big number is an institution address right so it's it's not tied to a particular end point or particular Gateway and so uh this for me remains sort of an open question we want to retain the Bic number or or you know the iso 220 number uh numbering which is which is less far less than 32 bytes uh which is what what we need and so the question is what um Preamble and what what postamble do we put for type three addresses so that it could be used by um by the the existing infrastructure the banking infrastructure that that's that's ongoing uh like we we have to talk and consult uh more people to to get just input and and just understanding uh but the for the type one address and type two address I think we are clear and it just now requires me and waya to find"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "time to um to update the draft all right that makes sense Thomas so it seems like um I'm trying to determine where we are path forward right right it seems like the design team to a large extent is done with respect to sort of coming up with the core structure and I would suggest that what you have be written up and it can go finally back to the working group as not a completed item but but you know you've you've work through the core issues and the core structures and then the working group can of course iterate um and decide you know how to handle some of these more nuanced problems at the working group level does that seem like a fair thing to do yes and I don't know if if um Dennis has put in a lot of time here because it gets even more complicated because there are structures such you know dids and someone that you know would need to be described but but yeah where that's kind of the plan you know going forward for the next like two months or three months is first thing is up update the draft and then you know have have it have the discussion again on you know on the mailing list well and and from my understanding of the of the space uh which I admit is limited and I'm sick so I'm not thinking super clearly but essentially you know you have have three starting identifier enumerated types with details behind them you know future types can be easily added and extended um and I would expect you know after the first document goes out with this typing kind of information in it you know future extension modules could Define new things where you know dids don't fit in the existing three types just bad example but new ones can new ones can be created in the future so yeah that's right and and and I know um we've we've written things as if it's a tlv but we actually want to do things in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "seore okay so this is another TVD the first thing you want to do is get agreement on the structure of the the the semantics of you know the addressing before we actually like transcribe it in like cabore format right okay great uh any questions to Thomas about the identifier design team update if not we will switch to Dennis then and the asset transfer description yes so to link it to the the architecture maybe we can bring the you remember the uh the API 3 thing so there is an access from the gateway to an external system in order for the gateway to be able to verify that all the things that have been negotiated all this information that is required could be somehow verified so the uh one thing that is essential from what all the discussion that we have here is to be able to retrieve definition of assets retrieve identifications of parties uh make sure that we can access keys or or other things that are necessary in order to be able to verify that uh uh the owners are those who actually pretend to be the owners and the gateways can really transfer the uh the assets and all of that so there is this notion of in the off net Resource as we see here there is this notion of Registries that uh we're discussing and there is a a draft document that maybe I can put the link into the chat here maybe you would be able to display that W oh yeah if you want to you want to display it so yeah go ahead or or actually yeah I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "know what I can I can share the screen or you can open yeah either way either way yeah please [Music] go yeah if if you could working on it that would be the one that looks like that you had the document right yes so if you go there's a sequence diagram down below that shows an example of um one of the resources that might be necessary uh not that one the the sequence one so one of the resources that are yeah that's it so you see the the the Third uh swim Lane here is the registry so the registry is the one of chain resource that might be accessed by the gateways in order to be able to fetch the definition of the asset so the asset profile this sequence diagram shows uh how this uh asset profile is registered and how the asset profile is used to issue instances of asset inside networks so there is what we call the the schema Authority which is the party organization or or whatever company that actually manages the definition of the asset profile so typically let's say that we are in a given jurisdiction and we have an authority that gives the right as we say the token U issuance uh authorization here to create assets for a provider in a given Network so the registry is used there to be able to capture that information saying that I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "am a provider and I have the authorization from a given Authority in my jurisdiction to create Assets in a given Network because we want all these things to be third party uh independently verifiable especially accessed by the gateways we have this notion of registry here so as part of the API 3 there would be a link between the Gateway and the registry for example to fetch asset profiles so in this document we give the overall structure of what are the asset profiles uh and how the registers could be used in order to store the information that is necessary for the gateways uh to execute the various transfer so if we have that there is what Rama also said it's about stage zero so during stage zero you most probably gateways would access information stored in Registries and they will negotiate either between uh client apps or uh before starting uh the uh the stage one in order to be able to access the various things so here's the profile here is the network I am accessing a specific asset as a Gateway so I can verify that the issuer of the asset is has the authorization to issue the asset on the specific Network etc etc so the structure that we are uh defining here in this document with with Thomas is what is the asset profile how it get stored what is the connection between the registry and you know the overall architecture of satp and this will all go at some stage in the API 3 um definition somehow I don't know thas if you want to jump in and say a few words about that yeah yeah I was about to type it's probably quicker if I say it verbally so so this is the scenario where as we have been describing in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "stage zero if Gateway 2 receives uh transfer proposal that has all these uh claims you know it's this asset ID it's this asset class it's from this you know originator and so on and so on uh Gateway 2 may be operating in a jurisdiction uh and and you know on behalf of a network that uh is that only deals with say regulated assets and so Gateway 2 might say okay I have to check this all the claims in this proposal of stage zero I have to check this and one of the items that needs to be checked is is the asset recognized and acceptable in the network 2 that runs in jurisdiction 2 and the way to do this one way to do this is for Gateway 2 to reach out and basically inquire or or do get or read from a registry somewhere that has the uh you know definition that of the asset which is what we've been calling you know the asset profile and that's a digitally signed document you know in cabore or Json that's signed by somebody which is it could be local government it could be a local Consortium and so th this is a good example of API 3 where the Gateway actually has to talk to a registry and so I think what what what we have as an opportunity is to Define uh the functions for the registry and also the API that the registry a registry would need to set up um you know stand up so that Gateway 2 can actually talk to it and and interestingly this is you know W is also interested in this because the you know the same problem is being discussed in the you know ethereum enter rise Alliance ea uh because they they kind of see well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "you know it's nice to talk about taxonomy of assets but but we need the infrastructure to validate some of the claims about a digital asset and so this is where where Dennis and I heading is that this diagram actually talks you know basically what I would call even before stage zero in our language this is this is the asset provider talking to the government saying okay you know we're going to be publishing the schema for you know digital assets tokens you know tokenized gold what whatever you want right and so um Dennis one of the things we could add perhaps later on in the document is an example of how Gateway 2 pings the registry absolutely so so there is pending to this action that we am to this document is how the Gateway interacts with the registry so that would definitely be something that it would be probably most probably necessary for stage zero because the gateways have to somehow access the register and verify some information be before they trigger uh stage one and and the other steps so this is definitely something that we need to complement that with with this now the other thing also is that typically the registry could be the place where we can store typically Network identifiers or other things um keeping in mind also that because of different uh jurisdictions there might be also different several Registries and not only one registry that captures all the information uh thanks quick question from from my side uh it might be helpful in this diagram to show sort of where the Gateway is I mean so I believe that the network block is essentially the Gateway at the same time is that correct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "no the network is actually as you see the in step five the network is is really nw1 for example if we relate that to the architecture document so okay this is whatever is necessary for someone to create Assets in a specific Network we need to identify what is the semantics of the asset somehow and having the definition of what is the structure of the asset in a registry um and then you would be able to issue whatever asset instance you want on a specific Network the thing is that we need somehow to have all this information verifiable by Third parties so it should be open and accessible that's the notion of registry basically that it captures all the uh the artifacts that are necessary for satp uh to work and the gateways to negotiate before executing the the transfer at least in a publicly verifiable Network right so yeah or for those who have credentials to access the registry under specific you know circumstances and with credentials then definitely there also might be the same architecture but with more uh uh restrictions on the accessibility of the regist of course okay anybody have questions for Dennis Rama uh Dennis a long time ago we were thinking about the registry as a dead registry weren't we are you still thinking that the the registry it's something that uh can host whatever artifacts are necessary for gateways so for example I mean if I link it to the previous discussion about the network IDs registry could be a perfect place where you can store the identification of networks for example so whether the network identifier could be um you know a did or something else it is something that could be defined on a specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "profile because then we can say okay this is an artifact that defines a network uh identifier for example so we can use this structure to to Define whatever assets are necessary for for sap to work if I understand your question yeah yeah I mean the reason I as the question was that I think U Thomas uh API 3 is supposed to hit the registry right yeah yes API 3 you said sorry say again yeah API 3 yeah so right now API 3 is is generic right but but yes one of the end points that a Gateway has to be able to talk to is a registry for the asset schemas okay so I was just wondering I mean if if the registry is if he just mandated that it' be a did registry could we just use the w3c specs and not have to create our would be wonderful if the world was that straightforward but if you talk to the you know EU Regulators they will say like what's the did registry so the registry is not necessarily A did registry it's a registry of the artifacts that are necessary for satp so typically an asset profile that we're going also to specify uh maybe in this document or a separate document is defines the structure maybe for example in ad Json LD uh on what is the what is the the asset uh definition and it might not be you know something related to a party like a did so it can doesn't have to be uh an identification of an organization or a person could be just a definition of the structure of an asset so understood I was just wondering if you could like piggyback on the definition of a verifiable credential schema and just sort of overload that as definition yeah it brings a lot a lot of complexity because of the way that the the Deeds are defined for verifiable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "credentials and here maybe uh we may be needing something which is more lean something um you know like a straight API where you can go and fetch data to be discussed okay we can bring this in the mail list of course sure thanks all right uh anybody else with last questions otherwise we have a few minutes left for Raphael which we should switch to all right thanks Dennis appreciate it Raphael do you want to share your own slides or do you want me to Paul did you have a question nope Raphael do you want me to show your slides or you want to do it let me see if I can show my screen okay you have asked to share it where is is the permission oh there it is should be yep I see the request can you folks see my screen yep yep you're good go for it thanks W everyone a quick update we've been working on uh multiple implementations of set B at this point um I'd like to thank for help on putting these sides together let's just dive into it so at hyperledger we have two different proof of concept implementations of setp setp Hermes and setp waver setp Hermes is implemented in typescript whereas Weaver is implemented in Rust it's currently being reviewed as a PO request so having different types of implementations is a good thing because now we uh limit the damage if one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "implementations fail it's a bit aing to the philosophy of having multiple implementations of watching notes um particularly rust is becoming a very popular language due to his to its memory safety features and very high performance um on the other hand typescript is very popular JavaScript is probably the most used language programming language in the world and has a vast developer basis so we believe that with both a wide spread language and a very robust newer language we can cover both type of uh potential users the ones that want to implement a faster PC and the ones who want to to be more cautious let's say so the architecture is relative simple we have the Cent application like we have on the setp core draft figure and then we have the API API 1 this API one translates requests from the client's business logic into Gateway well to Gateway specific request essentially although that's done at the back end so when we receive requests from API 1 we this is by the way setp Hermes the typescript implementation we have a bunch of modules for modularization and so on not particularly interesting to this to this group and then we have two core modules that implement the other API types API three we call it the adaptor layer and and then we have this Gateway orchestration layer which essentially translates api1 requests into Gateway specific requests and sends those requests to two other gateways in hyper ler cacti we can uh spawn nodes that have the setp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "implementations running on these nodes and we can also use The Ledger connector so uh between quotes for free we get the setp functionality and The Ledger connectivity fun functionality the connection to let's say core banking infrastructure financial services and so on can be implemented as as an adapter so we get some sort of P stex solution um this is a a diagram in more detail you can access I'll send the slides so although api1 is out of scope um we found necessary to Define this api1 because firstly if we want client applications to interact with gateways we definitely need standardizes standardize this sooner or later and secondly to conduct our own PLC and to evaluate it we need this API so the the first idea was to Define two sets of endpoints one for more Administration administrative type of uh endpoints and another one for transactions the transactions would the transaction endpoints would be transact cancel get the supported chains/ systems and get the list of routes for a specific transfer um I believe the the end Vision to this working group would be a network of gateways which can can rout transactions from one gateway to another Gateway using different different number of hops right um on the other hand we have the administration uh end points which comprises getting the status of the Gateway Health check and point continue or pausing a transaction and of course this will require a lot of discussions uh but the key Point here is that api1 API 2 does not depend at all on API 1 so the the key the key trick is translating API 1 request into API"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "2 um these pause and continue end points would require a change to the course um this is probably a discussion to have for the BL the line uh for the moment we support fabric bzu um evm based chains and in the longer term medium to long term we want to support Epsy and other blockchains who have more binding character let say currently we are ref factoring setp um we are planning to have um end to end working proof of concept by June where we have crash recovery as depicted on the draft on the crash recovery draft audit and compliance tools and this is uh this audit feature would depend heavily on what we have defined on stage zero and what are the needs of what we think is useful for the gateway to expose to to the outer World in terms of traceability um for for this specific implementation we also want to to develop uh set psdk which is basically api1 so client applications can integrate with with our protocol and then a couple of let's say more long-term Vision uh functionality such as automatic incident response detection and response so also to increase the security as was mentioned in this meeting uh this development is open source it's publicly available everyone can can see it and can have a discussion on it and contribute to it we have a small GitHub project where we show what's being currently developed and the contribution to this code base follows open source practice practices and follows the hyperledger guidelines which I think in philosophy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "are very aligned with the ITF uh a small a small detail and I'm almost finishing we we had a a a small difficulty in previous implementations previous versions of the implementation which was at some point nobody really knew which version of the of the protocol we were implementing so to to fix that we are now including uh some Flags which refers which are the drafts that are implemented or being implemented such that uh we know precisely what Kar re running so the current version that is being implemented is version two and when this version is stable and implemented we can update it to the latest version and that's all thank you for your attention feel free to ask me any any doubts on the millness excellent thanks um yeah so two really quick things but if anybody has questions now jump in the queue um yeah I mean versioning definitely needs to happen in the in the protocol definition itself otherwise you know you run into issues the one question I had was how closely were the what was the overlap between the teams that implemented the two different versions one of the things that we run into in the ATF all the time is um interpretation of a of a specification is is best uh to be determined when and like multiple completely different people are interpreting something so you have two implementations which is awesome I assume they speak together well um but was were people on the same were were there people involved that were on both teams I assume so so one well the setp her's implementation is led by Andre and myself and the the Weaver implementation is I would say led by Rama and his colleagues at IBM although I've provided some U some guidance on that implementation so I would say that is there is some overlap but the end of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "day they are independent teams independent implementations okay fantastic um Paul yeah I just have a closing remark if there's no more questions on this presentation uh let me go to Rama first and then you can have your closing remark uh we can discuss at length on the mailing list but I posted some links on the other implementation uh i' i' a brief presentation in ITF 118 uh the uh so Rafael is being modest I mean he he actually was a key uh Mentor for the implementer for the Weaver uh implementation as well there what we had were uh modules called relays within cacti which are very similar to how we have positioned the gateways so that's the kind of implementation it's somewh different from uh uh at least from a modular perspective it's a little different from what uh Rafa showed but uh it actually uh has the end to endend flavor of the protocol that we've been trying to uh draft inside okay thanks uh Paul uh closing comments I think we are going to close the meeting at this point so Paul our area director of okay yeah I'm speaking as the area director um I just wanted to notify people that U we're changing things a little bit up so satp doesn't technically fall under the security area um so it's um it's going back well it remains in the area where it is in art area um and so it will become uh the responsible ad will become or steel and I will still be listed as like a technical advisor so I will still keep an eye out on everybody and everything um but the the formal ad will become or steel and that's just nothing to do with setp specific it's just like um sort of trying to keep the um the ads uh within the area so that the scheduling for ITF meetings become easier yep uh as as thanks Paul greatly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "appreciate all of your help getting us here you were instrumental and making this working group even happen um so I will certainly talk with orius CLA and I both will I'm sure and um smooth transition basically upper level Management's changing you know the the pointy hat Paul is going to step aside and let Orie take over so all right thanks very much any final comments all right good meeting meeting all thanks very much I will I took some notes and I will post them shortly to the data tracker so thank you all and we'll talk to you again Claire and I'll work on scheduling another meeting in a month or so bye"
  }
]
