[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hey everybody despite the fact that we have enough space and no weird pillars in the middle of the room and all that this is IDR and we\u0027re going to start in just a minute or two so you know please start finding a place to sit if sitting is your thing bring your conversation to a close stuff like that I don\u0027t see clipboards on the desk so I hope that means that they\u0027re already circulating around yeah I guess there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "okay everybody I see sue coming back in the room things are circulating people have settled down let\u0027s get started the note well is the same note well that I projected last time it\u0027s still attending little eye chart sorry and you know as always by participating in the ITF you actually are sort of implicitly clicking on the the shrink-wrap having to do with intellectual property you may be walking into the room with if you want to walk out of the room and still have it be your intellectual property you might want to keep it inside your head instead of saying getting to the mic but don\u0027t believe me talk to your lawyer for the agenda bashing portion the only thing that I have to say is you know versus what the the published agenda is as we mentioned on Monday we\u0027ll have use extra time at the end of the agenda of which we have a notional 30 minutes for additional conversation about the PG pls update draft so that oh do we have a minute taker that\u0027s right here we\u0027d appreciate because some of this discussion may be free-flowing if you do part of the discussion go back and log on to the end of Padden check that see Linda and those of us who are trying to record your information have done a good job thank you yep and as always though actually this group is pretty good at it please do remember to state your name clearly if possible at the mic when you make comments that was sue Harris by the way so okay let me get the first slide up it looks like it\u0027s Mahesh all right so I\u0027m gonna talk about the BGP yang model and before I get started let me be clear I\u0027m not a BGP expert I\u0027m on the staff simply because my yang expertise so if you don\u0027t like the model the way it\u0027s written you can complain to me if you don\u0027t like BGP at the structure of it I\u0027ll ask one of the co-authors to pitch in alright so status with the 0-5 version of the draft we now have support for the routing management module and that outing policy module the RFC 83 49 brought us support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "for it and you will see great many pages in added to the to the draft for that there was a request to support TTL security I have added that as a feature we\u0027re not going to support it in the draft it allows for any implementation to do it by declaring the feature we did add support for BFT that not only the features statement but also for PFD configure client configuration for liveliness check when I started I think the exercise was leading to an explosion of modules managed to collapse that into three modules everything else now is a sub-module so it makes for easier reading alright so I\u0027m going to spend sorry Aysen know I know everybody might not want to stay around to the bitter end tomorrow so that routing policy module we\u0027re getting ready for to try and take it to at least there were a first working group last call and yang doctorate review so I\u0027d encourage everybody to read it I clarified a lot of the ways the recurse of Miss worked and the way I did it is I did it the way we map the open config model so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a bit biased the way I documented it but I\u0027d like everybody to review it thanks all right thanks for that desi all right so I\u0027m going to spend the rest of the time discussing issues and really trying to get a input on the draft as much as possible all right so the first issue that I\u0027ve documented is do we need action statements for something like clear bgp do note that there are no statistics in the model so you\u0027re not trying to clear any statistics will support statistics and then another draft what I have for right now documented that I we will add support for is global level player per address family and per neighbor so unless I hear otherwise that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to go with supporting in the model all right no comments so I\u0027ll move forward notifications so we will add support for notifications as they relate to the out updates and neighbor state change any comments and see Jeff actually had comments in the prior slide as well but for well as did this one so yes you do need to clear BGP in terms of being able to reset neighbors as well the clear routes is probably going to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "controversial just something because most people don\u0027t allow you to so when you get a little closer to the mic Jeff thank you certainly sorry is this better so actually wiping routes out from the ribs is somewhat controversial some implementations only allow you to do that as part of knocking at peering session over so that one probably needs be protected by a feature at best okay the statistics I think my comment there is that the stuff covered by the nips probably is worth putting into the base module and I\u0027d suggest that go in as part of the base rather than extensions a lot of implementations will have plenty of additional things to put in but the patient if they don\u0027t clear those okay so I\u0027ll talk to the Quartus to see what we can do to add support for that simple for FC 4273 mmm stuff next slide so terminology caveat notification for us means knock over the peering session but I don\u0027t you mean here for route updates what is meant in this context so at the keel can probably clarify or maybe soup can I think right so from a Yank perspective what it refers to is anytime that is changed to the route of entry in the model that might result in a notification okay you have a neighbor can\u0027t state change if you go from a particular state to another state these are notifications which can or cannot be turned off notice or the push notification Joe you go back and go back to the first issue nothing my brain was in idea our chair mode just restate what you had problems with yeah for issue number one so yes we do need things like clear PGP neighbor to reset during sessions no administrative reset appears we do what to prevent yes that\u0027s a that\u0027s a common function is that a common function that what we want in yeah and your answer is yes absolutely that\u0027s a common piece of our PC every one day this is this is a checking because that\u0027s a fairly substantial your clearing not the statistics but you\u0027re clearing the routes the right neighbor family the per address yeah okay and clearing statistics will be controversial from one implementation or another some never allow you to change those some do so that one might have been protected by feature so we\u0027re clearing statistics clearing routes is also very controversial to pick on a certain vendor that starts with a see they do have the ability in some cases to manually reset and throw away routes that have been learned from BGP yes other implementations all about you do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:16",
    "text": "that via policy yes and my question is are you\u0027re proposing that it\u0027s a good thing that we do and you would like to see the debate start I am saying that for the controversial things yang lets us protect those via feature ok so there could they have been and if they\u0027re confidential we can protect them and so will the condition and fit the features statement and you know a backdoor sly to for issues number two notifications for neighbor state change that makes sense those correspond to the 4273 traps that we have for that although there\u0027s some warnings and 4273 about noises and the state machine from backward transitions as we go through the state machine I would suggest taking the warning from that one the route update this one if that is actually a change of whatever you get a route update is this unconditional or is this by a subscription with a filter it would be unconditional from the perspective of the model of course if there\u0027s no one subscribe to that you don\u0027t I guess you don\u0027t get anything but from a model perspective a notification is generated so the problem with that is from the filtering mechanisms that net comfort defined this is so noisy you\u0027ll melt the router this is something that should only be able to be enabled by configuring a filter in some fashion and propagating down to the BTB module the direct analogy is turning on tracing for bgp updates and prefixes and usually and about four out of the five implementations of familiar with that will increase your CPU used to like no one hundred and fifteen percent of what you previously did I see it\u0027s not a not a good thing now have I my default so by the way just a not exactly a point of order but something this is good conversation and please continue having it it\u0027s fine to have it at the mic but a lot of it is also stuff that is highly appropriate for you know like actual document review and feedback that goes to the list because it\u0027s it\u0027s the kind of detail that gets lost even in good minutes yeah and in fairness I have not gotten around to reading the module and I\u0027m only responding here because it\u0027s being raised as an issue the screen works so I have a clarification on the previous slide again the clear BGP most useful form I have been using it for a long time it\u0027s actually with the little knob let\u0027s say with one limitation soft in which doesn\u0027t clear so to say but generates route refresh to appear and then I\u0027m synchronizing whatever I\u0027m getting again from the peer locally so do you have that concept here or it\u0027s foreign I CQ getting it yeah I\u0027ll be incorporated as part of the route "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "refresh RFC support from a modeling perspective all right moving on and I know this is hard to read but hopefully you can go back to the slides what I\u0027m showing is route metadata for local rib and the set of parameters if there\u0027s anything that you\u0027re missing feel free to comment on the mailing list or give me feedback bgp sound community type definition this is what we have if this is good enough let it be but if you want to further constrain it do let us know same thing for extended community types I don\u0027t have the whole printout here but it\u0027s in the draft issue 8 through 17 now we have placeholders for specific configuration the expectation is that each yang module for that for each one of these P is going to augment the BGP based model my very quick and the last two days just going through some of the draft says that there are some tasks that do it like ipv4 unicast l3 VPN is augmenting the base model but then we have a whole set of drafts that are not so just to point out to the authors some of them who are sitting here please make sure that your augmenting the base model Argus again this was highlighted some of this speaking as a core this was highlighted in best working group and I believe the working group chairs made are going to come back and ensure that this should be taken care of I\u0027m simply relaying what account highlight all right that\u0027s all I have thanks coach airhead Thank You mahesh for helping kara and I get the right gangster morning folks k Patel I\u0027m going to talk about the status of tunneling katstra so as part of the status update version 11 was published fairly recently in February and as part of version on as part of version 12 going forward we have we now have a new core through sri hari "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "from Juniper Eric Rosen has already retired who was the primary co-author on the draft the draft is in fairly stable state we have received numerous feedbacks from lots of folks including shiri we\u0027ve also received a feedback as part of chef Shepherd review from John Scudder the draft has changed and the text has been simplified the comments have been incorporated version 12 to be published soon and multiple partial implementations for this draft exists so maybe an implementation report going forward to document some of these things here are the high-level changes that are coming in from version 11 to 12 of course all the references to the tunnel types have been moved from informative to normative error handling section has been tightened up the language for a particular X\u0026Y kind of TLV ston little ways restricted to MPLS in GRE and MPLS in UDP and quite a lot of shirts have been replaced with must so that the implementation gets a lot more specific in that regard question yes this is Linda tumba from Huawei I have sent several number of emails asking to result some of the issue in this draft for example you have this introducer you have this remote endpoint tre sub theories and his stated can be inserted with every tre so if I have a route which you can go traverse like multiple egress ports when ports and I\u0027m not sure I cannot find anywhere in the document should I have like multiple remote and pointy always attach the route or should I have announced this three times for that update I send that question several times but nobody answered that question so I didn\u0027t get your complete question the error handling section now covers text fourths how the multiple same PL ways should be handled but if you send the question out again one more time with I\u0027m sure you get an answer now okay I hope so okay yeah so can I just interject a thing from the chair and or document Shepherd I get mixed up with these hats but I believe there\u0027s been sort of will it or will have been enough provisions to the draft that even though we completed one working group last call it\u0027s probably gonna be appropriate to take it through another one so you know definitely make sure that you get in your comments by then if not before and you know that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "as part of the working group last call we\u0027ll be tracking and making sure that we\u0027ve got you know issues closed one way or another okay that\u0027d be great a second issue I see that in the 5512 you have bgp speakers local endpoint address to be included in in a in the update and in this one doesn\u0027t mention that so i asked the question doesn\u0027t mean a third person like if between our two sending the route update if there\u0027s ex concern the same route update on behalf of our two whether that would be accepted or not it is not clearly stated in the document so that\u0027s one thing I thought removing the speaker\u0027s endpoint address may mean that but I can now find anywhere in the document to address that I also express that in the email nobody answered so we left it or possibly open but if you think there is any vulnerability issues or if you think that has any super say because typically the draft text doesn\u0027t prohibit an implementation from doing exactly what you say having said that if you see an issue with that or a concern with that now is a good time to highlight it to the work on a meaningless I do see issues with that I see additional function provided by that additional feature provide that but also associated with some of the problems with that so in the email and then they find that since this drug the author thinks maybe Eric was retiring so nobody care to answer this yeah person to take care of it review a review of that draft found some of these questions that Linda mentioned and we were looking at the - 12 draft how do you want us to handle questions are you in mid-flight of making some other edits should we refer to 12 do you want them private or on list I mean normally you know I always like on list stuff but if if you\u0027re in the middle of edit for next version how do you want to take the time I think the I think a particular way to handle it and from my perspective it\u0027d be super cool if we get it to that point is to publish version 12 with all the comments that we have received so far and we have an agreement on the comments and folks can take a jab at it and follow it up with subsequent comments if they have and we\u0027ll be more than happy to take a here\u0027s here\u0027s here\u0027s my suggestion is that like I said we we have you know we got through working group last call once and I\u0027m hoping that the authors and the group think that it\u0027s going to be appropriate to move to working group last call pretty promptly again yeah so that\u0027s exactly you know what you outlined is like you\u0027ve got a 12 almost ready to go put it out there and then it\u0027ll be a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:22",
    "text": "good time you know a good use of people\u0027s time to go and review at that point and let\u0027s just have the whole conversation on the list just to be clear John there\u0027s a - 12 out there right now okay sorry whatever you it sounds like you have something in your edit buffer ready to push out as that yes question 12 that incorporates all the comments that we so are you saying people should should review what\u0027s already published exactly okay sorry what is going to be published soon to be a user of the draft I also noticed that and this is where you prepare chair hat off individual contributor hat on I noticed there\u0027s a lot of things that wow that\u0027s a lot to implement are you going to segregate common versus base well okay so before I would like to have that conversation I I would like to give care the opportunity to finish his last two slides just in case it answers any of the other questions that are coming up to the mic if you\u0027re sure that you know your question isn\u0027t going to be answered if it\u0027s clarification about something that\u0027s already come up go ahead specifically on this light jeff has the shoulds replaced with mas every person in this room that cares about this draft needs to refer to those changes and double check things some of the changes in implications may surprise you sounds like a fair comment absolutely again as part of changes separate IANA registries have been now created to cover flag fields within end caps of tlvs this is just as a part of a good cleanup same for the label handling sub TLB field as well there is a modification to best part mechanism wherein a rule is been added which says hey if a path is considered paths to a path would be considered unreachable if tunnel and cap address is no longer reachable so this has to be some kind of an reach ability check that needs to be done the routing considerations section has been modified to ensure data forwarding prefers tunnel paths over a non tunnel path or or rather a next hop path for that particular path in which the tunneling and pay tribute was to seal which means if you receive this attribute please make sure to make use of it section 8.1 is modified to cover label stack for BG PLU as part of turn align caps finally added a section for IP n IP terminating into Worth and any minor Nets that needed to be fixed are fixed Robert hook so that\u0027s more general observation how about historically Erik "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "didn\u0027t want to add anything here for IPSec and DTLS because he didn\u0027t want to put crypto in BGP and that\u0027s fine right however there is use cases like you will see in next presentation we\u0027re just indication of that pier which is willing to established IPSec with someone else or DTLS for someone else it\u0027s useful right so the question is why don\u0027t you just address it here adding twinned pipes and be done with that in the same document so when we started off this draft the idea of this draft at least with the quarters that started of this effort was to replace five five one two and if you notice the old five I won\u0027t do it in carry an IPSec attribute it\u0027s done as part of a separate RFC so we say it as follow on once we have tunnel and caps in place and once we have an appropriate infrastructure in place we would go and cover the IPSec as part of the separate document just so happens someone has done it we already have something that\u0027s updating five five six six well that\u0027s your next presentation and the question there remains to be seen is is it updating or is it doing more or less I\u0027m simply saying we were going to take that effort after tunneling caps worse than this okay that assumes you actually are putting IPSec information to bgp but I\u0027m saying the subset of that it\u0027s also very useful I don\u0027t disagree so on my suggestion is again just like what I would love to do as part of finishing and working group class calling this dry is I mean anything that that needs to be changed fixed you know deleted whatever about the the base spec obviously has to be covered anything that\u0027s in there that\u0027s wrong obviously has to be covered if anything that looks like you know a new tunnel type or extension I I would love to see that come along as a follow-on draft just because I don\u0027t want to have this thing open for writing forever and it\u0027s designed as you know a modular and extensible framework so let\u0027s move this one forward and extend it and I think that what you\u0027re describing is a perfect I don\u0027t want to process more drafts than we have to you know let\u0027s not have a million drafts just for fun but on the other hand you know we got to sort of say you know close for writing now you know at some point so you know I\u0027m not saying absolutely not but I am saying let\u0027s let\u0027s not churn it infinitely yeah and from our perspective as quarters look we started off with a certain approach because of how the RFC\u0027s were laid out happy to consider it and cover it as part of this if the work is absolutely incremental and if that is what working group wants and I\u0027d like to respond to the question working group member sue brought up from the floor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:24",
    "text": "which was you know it\u0027s it\u0027s a big draft and you know kind of what what are we gonna do about the you know our implementation requirement I think I addressed this some on Monday but now that weíre talking about the specific draft I\u0027d like to address it again my feeling right now so sort of you know again this is towards the practicalities of do we keep this thing in revision mode for an eternity and you know try to you know flip over into a 3-digit you know draft number or do we just finish it probably if I you know we had to go back and do again I\u0027d say you know what would be awesome would be to do you know kind of the the skeleton part and in one document you know or maybe do it with you know just one exemplary atomic tunnel type and then do all the tunnel types in follow-ons because then it\u0027s clear that your your implementation piece has copper is covered but what we have is we have a document that\u0027s got six tunnel types call out in Section three plus you know several other modes called out in section three and my guess is that either no one or almost no one is going to go and you know implement all of those tunnel types in their first ship and if we insist on having every single tunnel type checked off in our implementation report this thing they stay and draft for a long time so my hope is that the working group is going to be satisfied by saying you know what we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna check off the you know sort of basic functionalities and say we implement at least one tunnel type and it seems to work and move forward on that basis it\u0027s not it\u0027s not perfect but I hope that sort of you know satisfies enough of the requirement so speaking as a co-author on the document and I\u0027m pretty sure I\u0027m speaking on behalf of all the other co-authors is as we start to take on version 12 and publish version 12 I am sure we will get feedback that means we will be editing the document and why we are editing the document it\u0027d be great if we can take that call because we have no problem splitting split splitting the documents but we if we do it we do it now rather than we don\u0027t take a call and year from now we take that call y-yeah so if you have input on that you know the Mike which I CAC going for would be great or you know to the list or the chairs soon rather than late AC Linda yeah I would really support bringing this to completion and one thing we had with the segment routing drafts in iGPS we had a specific piece it was actually an encoding of our SPE like ER o and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:26",
    "text": "those and we talked to among the I was the shepherd I talked to him on the co-authors and I said I know when nobody\u0027s implemented this are we ever going to implement it and they all said no probably not so we took it out so if there\u0027s anything in there you think nobody\u0027s ever gonna implement just take it out now that\u0027s a good suggestion this is Linda dumper so I support having those skeleton document explaining really well how do you update the route how do you go through the egress ports and how do you report and then potential problems of third party announced for you all those mechanism to be described well and then you may have may be appended to describe different kind of encapsulation because they are all can be treated the similar way except IPSec sridhara svami juniper just responding John\u0027s question I agree with what kr is saying maybe we put an additional timeline based on the feedback I don\u0027t know one month or some number of weeks after we can make a call on either way splitting now or should this how would you like that timeline to be if you had your choice oh you follow month out I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t hear once is good okay thanks very much Cooley so I\u0027m going to go ahead and publish version 12 and solicit comments thank you guys hello everyone topic here is to use IB chick PGP to ice Aikido the IP set configuration I think five minutes discussion is about do we want to put this into the current draft or the one-stop race as separated document for me I am fine with it either way I mean but this presentation about what it means so let\u0027s put that aside for a minute just focus on the air talking decide so probably I think probably it\u0027s pretty straight wood the problem I will try to solve is that in some large networks your big number of routers and then if you want to secure either power traffic or the traffic 850 million typically today you have to do is that you create a large number of IP second mesh tunnels between then sometimes you know to manager and the provision those pycnometer knows it cumbersome and it\u0027s a quite big overhead so we need a better solution to address such a problem so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:29",
    "text": "design considerations first my proposal here is not trying to be a solution for every use case out there like I said in the previous slides or I want to solve problem is that trance of the confusion and imagine problem of big number of tunnels second the solution should not trade-off of security we have moti tears in foreign slides and last is to avoid dream interviews so I will try to reuse exist protocol whenever possible I\u0027m not trying to compare analytical with a radically new Motoko here so the proposal is that we cannot extend the current tunnel encapsulation draft to add the IPSec part BGP is only used for the signals in certain opposite configuration but IP sector itself will be still signaled by the equity to itself so this draft does not introduce any change regarding I could be - there\u0027s only small amount change based on a ton in caption draft so here are the changes first we need a new theory for IPSec tunnel so I here proposed to use we use current look at the value of n o4 which is a liquid by the 5s disks to reuse that as a basic ESP tunnel mode because for a H mode it\u0027s rarely used and I think they\u0027re right now they\u0027ll change at least well from nice things to deprecate H mode so I propose that we only support is returnable a second is there can be new sub theory for public around instance so the populations for IPSec is where you the a piece of packets in capture IPSec packets there are instances for it in so which could be different from the pillow packets of the IPSec tonneau so today I know you many deployments people actually using the same or instance for both load and the tunnel packets but for secure isn\u0027t there should be possibility to separate this to so we need a separate top tier V to signal that and then there\u0027s a new sub theory for remote address prefix so in my piece of Caetano case there\u0027s the idea of the there\u0027s a concept of the trophy selector which defines what type of our source and destination traffic is allowed on a tunnel or the particular traders say so we need to signal that because that\u0027s quite important for the greedy IPSec tunnel since user may want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "to enforce what type Ralph or what type sauce is allowed to access the somewhere behind me so there are two so if I\u0027m to here it will rise for remote while for the local so those are all for receive point of view and condition yesterday with the robot I think the no one we could be optional could be other way to freedom by using recourse next I look up to achieve same purpose but I think a local band is that is necessary and also it reuse some existing sub terribly defining the counter craft for example remote endpoint which give you the IP sector nine point dress the color actually the color we use here to signal the large part of our preset confusion like for example your most importantly your crypto what crypto you want to enforce that the other end to use to reach you and some just a mother whatever either IPSec infusion you wish to map into this color actually severity of II and last real I also want to reuse the embedded label hindering sub here we because although IPSec tunnel is for IP tunnel payload but in case for example in unicast VPN address family there\u0027s a label there but for IPSec case because the during the icon of negotiation you are aware which private or distance that you are mapping to each so you don\u0027t necessarily need that service level in the updates to to talk is that so in the draft or I propose to use like value to of this embedded level so basically you know that they were in the update so here\u0027s a operational example so you have here example you have see two routers route one now to right suddenly I hand out one and southern PNC you can route to and the user want to enforce the traffic point we protected by the IPSec tunnel by two type of China say so red one and yellow one the red one using like a s 256 which are easy for mapping to color red and the yellow means it\u0027s using now in Commission and with only integrity protection Jasraj 256 which map to yellow color yellow so in this case given such requirements both R 1 R 2 or provision with the PKI keys and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:31",
    "text": "certificate for us AMCA so again here so this draft does not propose anything to for the authentication credential in BGP we leave that outside on purposely outside the documents because it with BK I can easily to achieve that scalable credential provision in the network so here those are two provisions certificate keys from same CA and are while we advise upland a in BGP which has a tunnel in custody attribute that contain IPSec theories so which contain two theories first why is our point with panel our are wise endpoint address the color will be red and sublet in the local perfect subject V so basically two verses in order for the source of her own subnet P to reach some net a behind me you need to use red configuration actually conversion to reach me as similar for theory 2 which is says most remote subnets C to reach a from the a you need to use color yellow as an IPSec configure except sedation then are two other also advised subnet B which has a 1-ton or encapsulate attribute that contains one IPSec theory with more than power be the are truth endpoint and colors of red and a in the local preciousness sub Theory so again so r2 will advance similar saying for some nasty so now with this for updates in pace so when I one received a packet from top and a test angel suffered B since BT update inclusive a also conclude a clue contains a IPSec tonneau encapsulate repute and there\u0027s no existing try to say that could use for the traffic so I will choose theory one because he will match the package source and destination address with the local prefix in the received updates and then here truth here v1 and years accurate to three steps eternal and also because the there\u0027s a there\u0027s a carriage built in the IPSec theory he will know what kind crypto overcome for eyepiece the confusion he should use to Estep Gitano so that they will config they were creating exactly to create his first try testing and the corresponding ESP transform the Kryptos and with a trophy selector that accordingly and then after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:34",
    "text": "the time is created I 1 R 2 now can for traffic between sublet a and B so what they try to say well and if next hour received another package from suffered a to this is something to see because in this case although I already have a try to say one but that one is only for to each other sublet a and B so that they cannot use that so I try to say so he need to create an just try to say for these packets same same same process happen in the previous but now because there\u0027s already I can say credit in previous step to the same pier so can you use that I can say to create a second child si with different crypto in this case North Christian with sha-256 and with a different set of chopsticks elector so now after these two steps our two can forward traffic between subnet a and sub let\u0027s see with the trial will try to sa to this way both r1 r2 does not have provision people in all those tunnels pretty pretend it\u0027s all packet triggered or dynamic okay summary so I think the benefit of this proposal is that it\u0027s typical the cap of the IPSec confliction from the key exchange and tunnel negotiation so which means it able to be leveraged post world of developments that can loud the boss IPSec side and be decide to evolve in independently second is by reusing IP equity - which is a field PO field proven mature protocol which make sure that exchange is secure and last we all need to do the limit change track B to be no change to activity - and and last is that we allow interpreter routers that are not supposed draft which allow gracefully transition this is Linda Dunbar I just put my hair the head of the iTunes that working group chair this particular IP sac configurations through controller has been discussed in the ITSM in the security area for over a year so there are lots of controversial is there and so I think this starting here will be better to align with what has being discussed in the security area to align with what they have done at least maybe bring it over there or align with there or wait until they finish and adopt yeah it comments over there a robot doctor while ago I think that is very different from my draft I mean you guys want to talk it directly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:34",
    "text": "from the controller while I also discuss the child relationship how the child sa being created association so that\u0027s one part so that\u0027s definitely need to be aligned okay so the intent is similar they have two cases and they actually they have three cases one is Ikey whens oculus was SD uncontrolled so those three cases so that need to be addressed so that\u0027s my first concern is the duplication of the discussion parallel discussion in security area and here second concern I have is for the traffic selection for IPSec traffic selection is not only based on destination like the route like you li PGP update you update your your routes it can be associated with source and destination and ports and many other parameters so that using PGP to to to advocate that propagate that the remote end doesn\u0027t really know the particular policy the policy has to be coming from the controller not from the peer third part is when you advertise the traffic the routes the local local device has to be able to be secured enough to authenticate the peer so the the IPSec introduced a whole different dimension because you\u0027re giving with the port facing the untrusted Network it\u0027s different from the other network we deal with where everything is in the walk-in garden yeah I think I said question one by one so first one is that like I said I\u0027m not trying to be a stn solution here and not everybody want to use a controller in the network and understand it pretty hard topically right now but not that it\u0027s not like everybody know what we\u0027re starting using controller in tomorrow so second my drafter really is just extension of a current canon captioned patient dropped within the idea to cover the IPSec tunnel case nothing was in that and the second and more that IPSec that traffic has protocol port range I\u0027ve been working I\u0027m secure for ten years now so I\u0027m aware that but here in specially in the network routing internationally use case people usually do not use protocol or put range here so that\u0027s why I want to simplify my draft that\u0027s wrong put too much into the watch change on the BGP robert hooke so it\u0027s not the question to you it\u0027s actually a general observation for the working group you brought it up that\u0027s why it comes now so you are asking for edition of the local critics and that\u0027s very useful but it\u0027s also applicable to all types as currently "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "defined in the tunnel and capsulation attribute because that\u0027s very useful information to have ability to specify from that source to the destination go through that end cap versus the other end cap so it is not in the base bag and I think that will be very useful to actually consider addition of that tiny bit of information to the base back yes I agree actually I won\u0027t ask opinio about that we should cover more tonal types you can Jeff as I have two comments about two and half comments first I do think this is very useful work configuration and use of IPSec tunnels has been somewhat painful and BGP before people have several ways of doing it and many of them are annoying which brings me to my two points point number one your you should add a operational consideration section to your draft talking about how issues that I ke now become part of your troubleshooting mechanism for BGP if Ike doesn\u0027t work your tunnel doesn\u0027t come up your route stop resolved and no this causes a lot of pain for the user that looks like a beach bee problem when it really is not yeah that\u0027s a good point the second one is your draft intentionally calls out for this in a single administrative domain which is a good clear use case lots of value there have you given thought to introduce a notion of this so so the reason I say this is the most fuzzy single discrete domain because I per second IDO syndication I mean sometimes hard to consistent addiction beckons across the mr. domain especially in this route interconnections case that\u0027s why I say is for the single the the place where this can be additionally useful and this is somewhat problematic in terms of how the T path attributes likely to be deployed for a short period of time having you know some general is PA and some generally is pzd will completely far ends of things trying to interconnect with each other and basically doing IPSec over the Internet is a thing that is already done today but again it\u0027s C prior comment it\u0027s a very difficult thing because coordinating things like the ike services across the internet is a tricky thing yeah I think I said nothing you to drop of technically nothing to prevent you to do that it\u0027s just I think what most people would do it but ok I can put some text to clarify that and I think it goes back to the core draft which is how is that attributed expected to propagate over the general internet right and so two things one is I\u0027d like to say we\u0027re cutting the line aftercare and the other is this is valuable conversation and I just I mean this is a general comment any time you make a comment at the mic actually is send a follow-up email because it\u0027s really hard for presenters who do not you know are not taking notes as they\u0027re presenting to remember all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:36",
    "text": "the comments and we try to get them in the minutes but send email thank you go ahead Stephanie kersky from Owens speaking as a best chair Mort small question to you John we have now four drafts spread of our idea on best talking about IPSec with envy turnaround caps my idea was to try to find just one solution if it\u0027s possible to cover all the cases I\u0027m not sure that it will be doable but yeah we need absolutely to set up the minimum set of building blocks that could be reused for the various use case after eyes just where is the home for his work do you do it in idea how do we do it in vests because I think area document maybe on VC has developed via secure VPN which is being able to secure all the service VPNs that we could ever invest using IPSec so yeah we\u0027re ISO home for this so I\u0027m not gonna try to answer from the chair but I think we should talk maybe after the meeting or you know something like that Sioux hairs individual contributor in this moment plus one on the last comment and a specific question for the presenter have you read draft the best evpn internets internet subnet for ting that is the secure VPN draft he had no heaven okay I would advise based on the work that was done there in best for a while that you read that they\u0027re looking at multiple domain you want to restrict your work and you clearly state that thank you and your draft that it\u0027s a single domain there\u0027s have both single domains and multi domains some of the things that are different with Linda\u0027s in my graph is we\u0027re looking at gaps in their draft okay and we\u0027re trying to work with them and work with the I to intercept I I would just note that it might be useful for you as an author um that\u0027s just a comment I have two questions the new subnet he\u0027ll be for remote address prefix and local address prefix we explain why you felt that was necessary in addition to the addresses because they might be suck this trophy select concept so with IPSec a user could specify which source and destination behind me are allowed over this particular tunnel it\u0027s not a basic protocol isn\u0027t it isn\u0027t that policy that you\u0027re putting when you get to prefix or or I\u0027m confused why it\u0027s just a list of subnets okay so you feel you need the subnet in order to do the appropriate IP set so if you\u0027re with my example I read the sequence you did the question the specific question is in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "order to do the IP sex stuff you feel you need the subnet it\u0027s mandatory okay yeah second when you re third excuse me when you\u0027re reusing the color have you thought about conflicts over color amongst people who are using this I mean you\u0027re defining color and policy equivalently and you\u0027re overlaying every time we overlaid things no somebody forgets you no no so when I say color it\u0027s it\u0027s a color sub TV right when you put this up a color table theory and and is the IP secretary that meets which means they have special meaning for us IPSec tunnel which is defined in my draft there\u0027s no I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a confusion there but there are many people in many ways are you going to lay out exactly how it\u0027s going to be no no I\u0027m not trying to define any colorful and what any other type of tano\u0027s laughs a you\u0027ve just let me repeat backs who understand it you\u0027ve said that it\u0027s only under the IPSec color and that\u0027s where it is be you\u0027ve said that you\u0027re gonna have multiple people using that IP upset color otherwise you wouldn\u0027t be using BGP and you\u0027re not gonna define how it\u0027s going to be working my comment then stands how are you gonna have people not clash no that\u0027s just I don\u0027t see how unless you specify color and you\u0027re overloading the color I think I asked my as you misunderstood your question that\u0027s all you sit a typo to know I said between I\u0027d be sick another type dunno if you say you\u0027re both using color there may be computer but is it it\u0027s like communities in BGP where the consulting exchangers agree on the color but my point is that when you put the colors of cherry and a nice IPSec Ratanakiri yes that\u0027s very her very specific meaning for IPSec it should not be any confusion there so guys this is gone back and forth a few times and I\u0027d like to suggest you like review the draft language and continue that way thank you ELISA Jesse Cisco even just the building up on the question that who made the security VPN I guess you haven\u0027t had a chance to read it right sorry secure a VPN Jeff I guess you haven\u0027t had a chance to read it okay because some of the material in here overlaps and would be good to you know to see what the overlap is and how we do it in that secondly with respect to the in here you\u0027re talking about discovering the endpoints and setting up the IPSec session via the IQ p2 and still we\u0027re gonna have the mesh mesh of IP to session among the peers I thought that you were talking about that is scale you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:36",
    "text": "want to I don\u0027t know but that is not a dress I\u0027m not trying to address the scope habit here I\u0027m going to try to scare off the confusion here okay then the other question have you had a chance to read 55 RFC 5566 yes so this is basically the RFC 55 66 with the instead of using 5512 we are using the tunnel attribute yeah more like that I think we I put more stuff there than five or six like that yeah all right one final question you\u0027re gonna you\u0027re sending a list of prefixes with this attribute of what follows gets mapped to this tunnel right you were saying so you know three fixes we were saying that yes these are the prefixes that you send these are the VPN traffic says no it\u0027s basically traffic selective IPSec dunno okay go ahead so when you create a pizza Colonel Lansing is mandatory do you really okay all right so just a quick note that in terms of the setting it up the security VPN talks about how to discover and set up the IP succession as well as how we can in for take their instead of using the I could beat you or we can instead of having a measure of the itv2 we can use one single point-to-multipoint signaling you guys I mean personally I try to avoid that I\u0027m saying that it\u0027s two parts I can I understand but what I\u0027m saying is both parts are covered you\u0027re covering one part of it and that\u0027s what I said there is an overlap that needs to be looked into right I think we\u0027ve heard several times now that you know both the authors and the chairs need to go and kind of untangle the overlapping things so point taken Kate Patel arcus the comment that Robert made about taking the list of prefixes and probably moving that TLB into the base draft happy to do that happy to work with you on that so no problem at all the other side comment I have I don\u0027t know who to probably target on this but a general comment that there are four different solutions none of their those solutions list out what route announcement rules should be across the AAAS or whether should this be at this attribute be leaked across yes willingly and willingly maybe it\u0027s wise to call out that at least in the draft yeah thank you thank you very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:57",
    "text": "okay so mercy is a first-time attendee and a first-time presenter an idea let\u0027s give her a nice warm welcome hello my name is Masha Zhang from Cisco so I\u0027m going to present a new draft BGP PFD sridham out this chapter was also presented at the working group yesterday problem statement PFD IFC v a2 enables routers to monitor data playing connectivity and detect boarding pass failure in BGP leverages on this specification by using EFT to enhance the faster convergence II today BGP neighbor session establishment is independent from the PFD session a PFD State because of that there are some possible failure scenarios when BTP interaction with PFD scenario a a PGP session may be established while EFT session is still down sanera PE articulated or poor-quality link may be lots in the corresponding PFD session going up and down frequently when PTP session is established so particularly for a BGP a typical a BGP peel can be multi hop away on those scenarios are likely to be observed the consequence of the impact will be the traffic being black hole raj in june and the network interruptions so we proposed a solution years bgp PFD straighten out this proposed draft that defines PTP street mode operation as preventing bgp section establishment on Tia speakers have a stable PFD session between them an LPG ppfd capability is defined for the PTP protocol Sangamon the definition of the snare BGP PFD capability are the kerb is TBD and the lens will be one octane the capability value contents of one octave PFD flags if the flux contains bit flux related to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:57",
    "text": "the PFD the most significant bit MSB is defined as a state of the street mode also called a speed operations are first rate amalgam a BGP speaker with PFD street and mode enabled must advertise the PTP PFD capability with a speed value set to 1 a BGP speaker which supports BGP PFD capability advertisement must exam BGP PFD capability received the form its peer only if both the local PGP speaker and its remotely to be peer have a PFD Street mode enabled then BGP session establishment will be prevented until it\u0027s if these sessions up if is appear has not advertised beach ppfd capability with street mode enabled then a BGP session should not be required prayer to the BGP session establishment conclusion we have identified a problem of BGP and the PFD interaction which could result in the return to in the network interruptions we propose the solution to the problem refers us a BGP PFD Street mode there the prevent the BGP session establishment until PFD session is up and stabilized it also enables a page of his speak to signal its peer additional be of the extension using an optional parameter PFD capability follow in the proposed the street mode operations we avoided a situation which results in the routing true and in minimized impact of networking interruptions and next steps just for the Rovira we are going to raise revise the backward compatibility section based on the IFC 5490 chain we are also going to add a new section to specify the detail on the bgp sessions stay the transaction into the scrubber check so the draft is a little bit vague about 12 the problem is so it says roughly this that there are some situations in which the beardy session doesn\u0027t get established well the bgp session does could you describe an example of such a situation and what it\u0027s due to well I mean the situation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "part of situation now come on to all the control protocol I think if you refer to the section 4 point wine of IFC 5 a 2 it also described the control protocols neighbor session establishment problem this is the commencing right so if you want using so we have to do the single no need to break the the locking issue of the reference again there are since an RFC number yeah the IFC 580 SEC shameful pundit yes Robert Rashad so this strict mode has been proposed in OSPF and and Averell groups as well for BFD but your slides said something interesting that you don\u0027t want to establish bgp session when the link quality is poor that sounds perfectly great except PFD today doesn\u0027t really determine link quality as such an encounter may mean different things for different people BFD today gives you ability to sign out the purists up or down right there are proposals in VFD to actually enhance BFD to do more than what is it actually designed for but I think there is a little bit of a gap if we are using the right tool to evaluate the link quality yeah this is just thank you this is just part of a scenario yeah I\u0027m the like for example people who I handle this case like PFT dampening or other saying so maybe if they stay to see you down but I mean this other so very briefly we\u0027re starting to run short on leading time so the line is cut after ridiger and please keep you know make your comment but keep them short Thank You Alexander Zima Yandex I understand the goal but I don\u0027t understand why you need to negotiate this their capability between peers why you don\u0027t why you can\u0027t just a figure Eight\u0027s locally video question so yeah you you are trying to not establish a BGP session before you have a BD session but if you have this information from one side well you can just stop establish a session is the upswing chance it will be fine so why do you need to negotiate right we need a signal yes okay also and you and you can correct them okay so the major issue is to avoid that the potential deadlock okay if you prevent you peer doesn\u0027t know or sometimes you hear maybe waiting for a session come up before they create the PFD session so deadlock situation coming they\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:00",
    "text": "never be able to step it should be a few new session many vendors already support strict mode including us there are situations in which you you you have it configured on both sides and normally you want to use it but you may have a situation like immediately after an upgrade or something where you don\u0027t want to use it one time when you come up and this way by signaling it you can handle those situations where you don\u0027t want to use it and they\u0027re also what pointed out there\u0027s been bugs where there\u0027s been a deadlock between different implementations of strict code okay or brittle arcus I actually like the document so I have no problems with that but I would be really interested in knowing exactly what Alexander asked why would you need capability you could hold the peering session at your end locally when you need it and 42 71 which is the base bgp specification actually as nice section of connection collision in built or define in there so at the worst both ends will keep on retrying that\u0027s about it but i really don\u0027t see the need of capability so if you take it out if you think that\u0027s the case then it makes it even more simple i think we need it Himanshu from Siena so this is good but I think this has a limited application in the sense that it doesn\u0027t take care of the route reflector clients so you have a you may be okay without processing establishment with the route reflector server in the client but between the two clients where there is no bgp session and you could have a bad connection and all that stuff so it real that part is missing here obviously for the sessions they are fine I\u0027m just saying that it it has the scope of that application is somewhat limited you are saying no I would like to draw your attention to draft bla bla bla RS BFD bla bla bla each draft ietf IDR RS PFD okay they did address is that it addresses exactly that use case for for secure for secure it addresses exactly the case you described okay jeff has speaking is EFT chair and also as a day-to-day BGP developer this is a real problem and as we sort of seen at the microphone people have different ideas about when BFD is used to protect a BGP session the fundamental issue is that at what point in the beach B state machine do you insist that BFD either "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "get started or to be up and stable before you do things and we do have day-to-day Interop problems not always necessarily for just bringing up the session but first things like no keep down type behaviors when the protocols actually do say the FDS down when do they allow to come back up this draft is a useful place for us to standardize a behavior that is not standardized either in BFD or in BGP and that does actually cause cause in draw problems Cisco and juniper for example and the keep down features do not interoperate and it causes problems so can I ask a clarifying question um several people have brought up at the mic oh we don\u0027t need a capability um so would you like to respond to that absolutely so the motivation here is that without some sort of signaling it was like again what part of the state machine do you bring it up if you do it at connect or no connect retry I pick your favorite piece of that state machine you don\u0027t necessarily know which behavior do you do do you do the one that you\u0027ve been doing for years or do you do the one that is tied into the new behavior at a single point that we can interoperate it so the signaling is a good place to say now that we know that we\u0027re going to look for the capability we could at least use that as a sinking point for the knowing solution Thank You Lydia for Deutsche Telekom and I\u0027m looking at the description of what you are trying to do and what you\u0027re doing I note when I advise my customers to establish PFD on bgp sessions my thinking and my goal is that they tear down the BGP when something bad happens what you are doing here is kind of the other end of a BGP session you only want to open it or delay the actual open until you know that the path is clean and I think there might be a different approach to deal with that situation I would think that it is not necessary that you delay trying to open the BGP you just have to delay actually using the announcements and potentially hold back on the announcements and I have the gut feeling that the deadlocking that has been talking about is be can be completely avoided if you take that approach yeah I would I would encourage you guys to discuss that further on the mailing list because we\u0027re out of time thank you thank you Alex you\u0027re next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:14",
    "text": "and just as alex is getting set up here i want to say i know that we promised a discussion on the BG pls bissell and anybody who\u0027s looking at their watch will see that we just aren\u0027t going to have time for that I\u0027m very sorry I encourage people who are interested in contributing to that to find Katyn and you know provide input in you know as time allows hello everyone my name is Alexandra Zenith Iveco yandex and today I\u0027m going to deliver to you I hope final update on bgp open policy drop so it was here for already three years there was a lot of changes mergers with other documents and again changes in the finality so on so on but the key principle was preserved unchanged so the root leaks are happening because of policy violations and the root cause of these violations is mistakes mistakes that amazed by network engineers that do not understand how to apply peering for a represent peering policy in their configuration so these draft just fuels this gap it provides a native way to represent your peering policy into the configuration so you\u0027re just sitting you\u0027re you\u0027re impulsive the configuration and after that every the filtering is done automatically so let\u0027s jump to the role specification as you see most of the roles are native if you are a customer your all\u0027s customer if you are a provider you\u0027re always provider but what is if you are route server you know form from the mathematical standpoint the answer is clear there is no difference between genetic change points that provides partial connectivity and Internet service provider that can also provide partial connectivity so I thought that everybody will be happy to they\u0027re out server is a provider and go on with this and I was wrong even people that were carefully reading the draft were confused and so the in the last version of the draft we changed it so if you are providing a router if your router you\u0027re always router if you are my interpreter your own Kauai interpreter so I hope these will solve the problem with uncleanness and uncertain I was really not happy dropping the idea math model but simplicity is the winner so with this I would like to ask for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:15",
    "text": "working group last call we have three open source implementations I would be glad to see other vendors during the party so that\u0027s all that\u0027s all any questions we will absolutely add that to our list of things to working group last call thanks very much for the concise update and yeah floor is open for questions but please keep them brief if you have them and in the meantime I will get the next slide set queued up okay okay seeing no questions thank you very much Alex lately is this your first presentation in IDR okay this is a very simple actually very simple after about a BGP for specification for a sorry six this is the background of this draft I must say actually in they are see I think it\u0027s five five seven seven seven five yeah have defined the BGP prospects occasion as I for the beach refers back and already defined in many many component types were they acted before IP prefix IP protocol and for some draft have defined they layer 2 VPN VLANs for the component types so for this draft have adjusted to defined to new component types were they seed of I sorry six so the first the first component I pays for the whole 128 bits of seed even the host eight we also use a pair of operator in the value 2 for the match rule in the operator type operator bytes we have seen the last less than greater than and the yuko and the value should be the whole seed 128 assist for together with the oak returns at the value we can indicate how about they are certain exactly in seed or a range of the city to match for the i 36 so this is very easy to understand together with the operator byte under the value of field and but for as we all know for this city is too long and for some scenarios we can just too much some bits or some feels about the seat because in the i sorry 6 network of programming we have seen that the seeds "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:15",
    "text": "of format should be locator from k ID and some arguments so we give another type come on and type 2 to match some field or some feats of this city to match such as we also use a pair of operator and the Vario to indicate the morrow so in the operator we defined the type field to indicate which children or which speeds who want to march so now it gives four bits for the in the future we may have very flexible extent so you know we just came 44 times first one is for the locator second is function ID and also some group together with function locator and a function or function arguments so for the very office we use seed and mosque two flexible two together indicate the value about there\u0027s some fielder\u0027s piece off the seat so together they say it\u0027s for the second component type so for this two times so it gives not only the whole 128 in situ margin but also some beads and feels too much okay so it\u0027s very easy to understand just to give two components for the newest re6 Network so sorry okay quick question why only sit and not let\u0027s say SRH presence why you don\u0027t want too much on the extension header type so if I see accessor header type anywhere in the packet I treat it differently let\u0027s say right yes yes but for this I think we can extend in other craft or something else but in this draft adjustor defined these two types yeah from Holly from our point of view because the s are actually the coulomb for the match but because of the I sorry see that can be used as a v6 the destination but it is a totally different from the ipv6 address so that\u0027s either we properly so type user can match the IP destination address of the ipv6 the packet the path a user can use that as a sorry succeed I\u0027m not sure let\u0027s go anywhere I\u0027m sorry for my ignorance I didn\u0027t read the draft so good question which field from the header you are going to compare with that is it against the IP header or or SR SR Heather it\u0027s actually for us our headers that destination address at that time and also for the seed or bonding seed but I think we can use as our policies first to end point so there\u0027s two types I think all can\u0027t be matched but if I received updates I know so if I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:18",
    "text": "received at us from the flows back how implementation should know what is your intention which which what you want too much on destination address or destination header or you should either yeah yeah any further questions or comments all right thank you very much we have two minutes left but that\u0027s just clearly not enough time to have a useful conversation about the BG pls miss I\u0027m again sorry about that encourage you to find k10 and talk to him about it thanks everybody this was I thought a you know very interactive interesting session see you next time blue sheets please "
  }
]