[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "good evening everyone hello Eric I guess it must be very early for you Ker not that early just 8m it's nice we'll give a few minutes for people to continue together I know some of the regular participants will be joining late because of a conflicting um call oriented around organizing the 119 meeting who are the two minut for anyone that's here um please share your video so we have as close to a rounded table meeting as we can get but do remember that this is being recorded and will be posted to YouTube we'll be famous"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "we are already right so it's exactly right an easy one I know I know but it's being late for me well famous in the ietf and famous might not [Laughter] be so the join rate is slowing as I mentioned we do have several people that um will be here but a little bit late because of a conflicting meeting thanks everyone for taking time out of their day to come um have this conversation and always um um helps the tools team with priority and we really appreciate the interest in watching what's happening having the opportunity to get realtime feedback on on what's going on I would like to introduce our new senior developer sanguna is based in New Zealand working with the ietf tools team um I'm sure when Jay has an opportunity to join you will also want to mention um some things and I think I'm going to go ahead and jump into the agenda at this point does anyone have any last minute agenda bashes everybody knows where the notes are they've seen the um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "framework for today's discussion is there anything missing in particular from that that we need to focus on all right so we'll jump in uh the first thing that I wanted to note um we are still working fervently on moving into the new it infrastructure as mentioned at the call last month we've shifted into a Sprint based mechanic for focusing progress and advancing our progress hello Michael um this is working out well for us on um accelerating the progress and focusing what we need to do but it is not making it easier to make a road map to completion available to to the community I'm still struggling with uh um how to build such a thing there's just too much unpredictability in front of us to to um put anything sensible together so far so I'm planning to continue what I have been doing sending periodic updates to tools discuss and Reporting and venues like this on the progress if anybody has any suggestions or complaints um please let me know about the visibility into what we're doing at a very high level we're still in approving stage we do have a few applications in production already author tools has been in production since late January the three major wikis have been in production on the new infrastructure since the very beginning of February um we've gotten very positive Community feedback on the behavior of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "those applications in production uh we're at a point for most of the rest of the applications of proving that we can get the databases and persistent storage in place um we are not yet to the point for the really difficult applications to move the data tracker and the primary ietf web server um we hope to get those to a point where we have versions of them in staging soon that we can start doing load testing on and making sure that the infrastructure is going to um provide the experience that uh the community is used to or preferably um uh even better experience than than what's currently deployed as I noted in the notes part of why we are um at this stage of the game and not having more things into production is is that we went down a path originally in December and early January um that involved um using fargate as the um fabric back backing kubernetes for the things that we were deploying into kubernetes and we learned some things and decided to change direction um and that direction change involveed reworking some of the infrastructure that we've been building to deploy adding a little bit of of time but it was a necessary change to make and a necessary thing to learn um and the last thing I have in this section is that the uh we're very rapidly approaching the part of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "calendar where changes to things like the data tracker will disrupt um the efficacy of I f119 and we will be being careful um not to do not to cause that kind of disruption as we're moving things going forward and that might mean a lot of things end up just moving forward into staging and having actual production deployment happened um immediately after the meeting um but would there are still several things in Flight that pations would not disturb the meeting at all such as moving the trust's website that will continue um in the meantime hello Jay um I gave a brief introduction to S at the beginning of the call if is there anything that you wanted to add to that okay thank you all right so that's the highlevel um dis description of the infrastructure transition I've got some more detail down in the FYI section of the notes on the individual services that are being transitioned um let's wait for that section and talk about the Individual Services I know Michael had asked a question in email that I handed had not answered yet that we can cover in the call but unless somebody has something they'd like to ask about the general um framework for the um infrastructure transition I'd like to move on to me Man 3 all right not hearing anything so this last weekend was a a very intense um flurry of activity uh we really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "thought that we were going to be um deploying mawi 3 up until um for those of us in North America midm morning on Sunday so about just the day before um we found a set of things that um in testing that showed that we needed to address um before we actually made the transition and in the process of of pulling at the threads that that exposed we found other things that we're addressing across the week this week uh the easiest one to understand um is that the mechanic that we use across our mailman 2 lists to allow someone who has a data tracker account who has posted an internet draft has um subscribed to on on some other mailman list to be able to post to any list and this the global wh list mechanic this is the thing that we count on to allow ads discusses to flow through to um any working group list for example just doesn't work in maan3 the underlying gearing did not make the transition into the mman 3 World um the developer that we have working at serus on this that's closely involved with the mailman 3 project is building out the extensions to mailman 3 that are needed they will end up back in the mailman 3 um sourc Tre um at at some point um we had some other smaller issues larger issues that we um are also working through just making sure that we have um um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "the plumbing through postfix and post confirm in mailman 3 correct um an actual full end end test of a message flowing from mailman 3 through post confirm as it does its rewriting half of its job um to to demonstrate before we make before we make the transition and I have a uh very active um session running with the developers at serus during the week this week um we'll be having a uh uh major checkpoint at the end of the week on Friday I had signal to the community that we were going to try to do this again next Monday I was reminded today that next Monday is a um Us hall holiday the Secretariat would not be around so I planning to nudge that forward to Tuesday morning instead of Monday morning so that we have um more people available as as the transition happens so all right anybody have any other questions about what was going on with mman 3 just two question Robert if you don't mind for my own migration of my own mailman list to to man three I notice a very um performance drop did you see the same thing happening or so I haven't seen performance tests so we've just been focusing on functionality tests Mark has Sirius has moved several other organizations through mman 2 to mailman 3 so that is correct we we have um well what's correct is we've moved a number"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "of organizations some very large indeed um there are different performance profiles uh but as Robert is saying we're not at that point at the moment we're functioning on the uh we're focusing on the functionality um translating the existing Plumbing over and we will be of course looking at the performance once we have got it wi and we expect a period of tuning on that one thank you so just as a a point of interest um as we were exploring the um thing that's going to come next which is the move of the entire male processing system um onto the new infrastructure fabric um some of the the Baseline parameters for for understanding this um we are running at just under 5 million messages a month being emitted by our current mail processing system so any other questions shall move [Music] on I'm sorry Mark I was saying um I can't hear Jay here could see his lips moving but couldn't hear uh your yeah your audio is not coming 3j the infinus two many mute buttons all right so the next item that we have to uh um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "call attention to is that there is a new IE website in production uh it made it into production yesterday that is the culmination of several months work um Cindy I don't think is on the call yeah she is there I am here my Internet is just a little bit wonky but yes uh thank you to everyone who helped with this you know Greg and casara and Robert and Liz um so happy that this is in production now does i.org work or just ww. i.org i.org should be taking you to ww.org if it's not then um we have a bug all right casara grab that one and and address it please y I will yeah looks like it doesn't work confusingly ww. i.org seems to actually set the uh location ID to ie.org so you think it thought it worked I think that's JavaScript but anyway you saw it work we'll follow up on it thank you all right the next item I've got I was hoping we'd have LS for we don't have lurs but I do see Roman um feet Clarity seems to have stalled and I believe that it is stalled primarily with the isg Roman does that match your perception of where we are with it this is the the banner that would be added to um internet drafts in the data tracker and rfc's in the data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "tracker uh I was under the impression that we resolved all of that is Greg here I think that there was still a an outstanding question about the um normative looking reference to um Warren's draft explaining that okay if that is the case then it is stalled with me I did not appreciate that there was something else to clarify I thought after we we got the second approval from all the stream managers that we were good to go Greg should we take that offline I mean do you know what what words we're talking about yeah I'm happy to I'll send you email okay I we can te it up worst case at the formal on Thursday okay with the all right thank you the next topic I have for discussion is um to note a uh conversation that's um really taken off on tools discuss um mostly because of an unintentional bug that came in with the uh release of feat RFC last month um the page for documents for draft like documents in the rfc's derived their um treatment from the way drafts were treated provide an link to reach the interested parties in the draft the draft Alias link for drafts was just document name at i.org and that slipped into document name at.org for rfc's so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "there are these links email links on the RFC pages that are showing up right now that look like you know RFC 8989 at i.org that wasn't intended we have a PR that's in progress it'll be part of the next release that's going to take that back to pointing at the draft string for the last draft um for the draft that um became an RFC if there was a draft and there would not be any link it all in the data tracker for the moment for RC's that didn't come from drafts and we're going to um let this conversation play out about where whether these aliases should exist and what domain they should have and all of these um there's a a long enrich thread that that has started around this so and if anyone has anything that they wanted to throw in here on the call that's fine but I think that that most of this discussion belongs on the list at this point all right from a FYI perspective I'm going to read through some of these um this time going fairly quickly we did deploy a postc confirm change that changed the envelope from for aliases um at the very end of January this seems to have made the draft and group alas is far more useful to people delivery into the major M silos appears to be mostly working at this point so a lot of the concerns with the the um um utility of these aliases seem to have been addressed with that particular"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:06",
    "text": "change author tools then that they I'm just going to start going through these and let people call out if they want to talk more about them um I don't know that there's really more to say than what was um written about author tools for analytics I know Michael you had asked a question about how we're deploying into the fabric and why we're ran into trouble um this is a artifact of that particular application it self- maintains it has um uh PHP it is a PHP application it has PHP code inside that upgrades itself and leaves artifacts around that need to be captured if you're going to deploy again as code and we will come back around to capturing that so that we can deploy that as code um going forward but for the short term we're moving into you know deploy once um Yang catalog is worth talking about a little bit here Eric [Music] um we have our instance of Y catalog up in digital ocean Joe Clark has spent quite a bit of time um addressing the uh gaps between what should have been just redeploy configuration of C as code from what we had from Pantheon that weren't act actually there um he's taken notes we will eventually move that back into a period where in into a state where we can try to deploy it again and have everything work straight off the bat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "there we we're still finding issues with it um the issue that been W reported with the tree display appears to be environment variables that aren't being set um we're going to go work on that when we get time to do so um this y catalog Remains Not um it has a lot in front of it um from the development team focusing on the infrastructure transition keeping the D data tracker going and a lot of the load has been landing on Joe and Joe notes that you know is uh to that is low and having other informed people coming in from the Yang catalog Community to help would be useful no Tak can Robert on this one it's a Pity because last week there was a big Cisco event right so when Joe and myself were buy full time I met Joe over there and we have no he did not talk about this to me so anyway I will try to Li yes with him this week awesome I think the code base is sound it's more the environment settings right to to boost R it correctly crossing fingers and it was interesting to note that Beno was surprised I read this email I was assuming he was in the loop and I should have checked so if B you read this um kind of my bad and it is 10 kilometers away from myself my place right so he can come to my home and hit me all right so um for the rest of the development projects um I will call out before we um run through these and ask"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "questions that velocity for bug fixes and um new features for the data tracker and other services is down we know it's down we're focusing on the it transition work um it will come back up after the it transition work um and you know I it would be nice if we could do both at once but we're pushing the resources to um the limit of our ability to push so Jennifer is there anything in particular on the data tracker that you want to call attention to um I think the main thing that just we've changed a few of the uh periodic tasks we updating things from running on Kon on the uh itfa to running as celery tasks and this is in preparation for operating in a cloudy environment um so um I think as far as I can tell the tasks are working as they did before but they are perturbed so if anything seems out of whack send us a note and these are things like draft expiration and the update of the um email thises and um the things that would typically happen overnight that you would see May being emitted for um one thing note is that over the weekend tasks that normally ran at midnight uh the last few days tasks that normally ran at midnight Pacific ran at midnight UTC um none of them should you know it will change the time of an email but I don't think any of the uh things that ran were sensitive to the time so we that should be back to status quo but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "yeah we've shifted it to um mirror Pacific until um we have made the transition into the new fabric so that we aren't having to make that adjustment when we're comparing old and new behavior in staging versus production but once we are in production we do intend to move for all of our services um for the machine's idea of time to become UTC so just universally across all of the applications um the presentation layer will still do things like what the data tracker does now present people in um um time information in their time zone of choice so um casar do you have anything that you want to highlight about the um bib XML author tools XML RFC wagon or anything else all right um Necker Ryan anything on your fronts that you'd like to call particular attention to all right may I may I assume that in I thing it was into Nick's Place the new R RPC editor is it RPC editor or RSC editor it it is intended to say RPC editor at the moment so we are as part of the RPC tools modernization project building an editor for the editors that work for the RPC to use we are keeping it in mind as a goal that this would eventually also become something useful for community members to use but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "right now we are focusing on the people that are working for the RPC use cases thank you all right checking zulip to make sure carsten says that he would like for us to mention issue um 1100 casar do you want to talk about that at all um I'll put a link to the issue I I think it's still in I don't think it's still complete to make a make a change because what I'm seeing is still under discussion what it what it should be for different references yeah so for for those that aren't familiar this particular issue is about the uh format of subseries references in rfc's going forward um we had a change that we made to XEL RSC that would wrap subseries with the subseries that aniron then all the constituent rfc's for that Subs series um with links in the wrapper to the subseries metadata page and then links for all the constituent rfc's to the rfc's um the rpc's has concerns about how this looks for subseries that only have one RFC in them and are working out requirements for what we should do um for the the different case a Subs series that a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "thing like a BCP or an STD that it only has one comprising RFC versus one that has a dozen um they're building out um the requirements for what they want to see and then we will reimplement yeah I think the the interesting observation here is that the the RBC work and and the xml2 RFC work are interl in in a way that can be moving very slowly um so maybe that's something that that requires some additional thinking going forward well at least it can move so yes yes I'm I'm I'm not complaining that much it's uh just I happen to have an RFC Tob that that is involved here yep okay I think we are to open discussion in any other business if anyone has anything that they would like to discuss that we haven't jumped into already then I believe that we're done thanks the last call before the good Sprint right that is correct yeah we'll have the the code Sprint um typically we cancel the um tools call that happens immediately after an ITF because of people's travel and that we've all been together I'm going to leave it scheduled for the moment but because of the transition work maybe there's a reason to get together and talk um but I'll give everyone a couple of weeks notice if we're going to cancel it so all right let me check the chat one last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "time all right thanks everyone and we'll see you online if not at um the the meeting we'll talk to you soon"
  }
]
