[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:01",
    "text": "The name of the cedar is Hun. Not that I know anything about drinking Sake david Oh, there is. Yeah. You said this is what tom talking about. Cool. You've got one two. I have one. There's much glasses. Well, the the tradition with with with these cups you you put the glass in in I'm not sure would the call cups of box. You put the glass in the wooden in the wooden holder. And then you pour the socket so it overflows the glass into the holder. I really shouldn't be speaking someone is Japanese should be explaining this. There. I thought it was one in. Alright. I'm gonna it's time. Gonna give that the note notepad open, I think. Hang notepad. Anybody wants to take notes with Brian. That's appreciated. A David since you always rewrite everything, I I write, What's the notepad we use here? Right. It's the... Hold on here. Because of the agenda easiest to get that's one of the agenda. Right? Okay. Me you can tear it off into new tab. Let's started typing one then. It's getting weird behavior. No"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "Alright. I'm gonna start with no well with for anybody who hasn't seen this yet? This week or you know, in their life, here it is. I'm supposed to what but you hang out and see it for a moment. Okay. Moments over. Also, I'll say, you know, code of conduct anti harassment procedures, all of that's referenced in here too. Be nice to people. Alright. They tell me to put this in there if you haven't scanned the qr code and logged in via your mobile device to be a participant. Please do. So that we don't get a closet next time, but I think the four of us could probably six of us in the room can probably fit in the closet. Just so you know, the session is being recorded and masks are required. Everyone's got one on. So it's good work. I'm sorry. What did you say about the Qr code logging in on No. That's for the people in the room. There's a Qr code on the qr. on the screen if somebody isn't talking, there's a Qr code to to sign you in. It's the blue sheet got it. But we logged in and connected online. So we're good. Yes. Is it it just logs you into a local version of Mid. So Yeah. Signed the blue code unquote. Right? Yep. Okay. Thanks. No problem. Thanks for asking clarifying question. Somebody's trying to go fast so that I can give you guys all the time, I can. Here's the agenda. I know that we wanna try and potentially bash this. I don't know how to solve that everybody wants to go first. There it is. You know what? I updated the agenda"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "in the actual agenda for the meeting, but I didn't update this slide So there's a slightly updated version on the actual meeting system, which includes time doing three presentations, but I didn't give him any more time. And other than that, I think it's the same. As a person who seems to have caused all this promotion. I would have no problem with batch fifty six sixty one come before P s layout. So I don't care? Is it Is that amenable... So the problem is david would prefer N s layout an rd may commit to go together. Any objections? Not heard, so we'll go with that. I do have a couple of chair things. So we designated experts need to be updated I think we may have handled most of that, but I will double check that maybe a note on the list, if you wanna be a designated expert for the Regis, feel free to volunteer. You wanna come just you know, Yeah. I think you actually may have actually put your name down already. That was Tom raising his hand. We also wanna start doing some weekly meetings to advance the best document We got not great response on the pole that was sent out. This is the best set of times out of the pole. There was a lot more times presented. If I should do a new poll, happy to do that. what do we need to do to kind of make this happen and get the biz doc But done."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "Sorry. So the time zone was eastern time sent out in the original email, not presented here. For myself say that I did this ways back, and I probably have new recurring meetings on my calendar, so I should check. Like I said, Sorry. I'm happy to redo the poll if if folks are interested it in are more willing to participate if I do a new poll. I don't need a new pull. I was just saying I should go double check. I don't have any new conflict. Okay. Well, if there's time, I will revisit this, otherwise, I'll put it to the list like I said, I I wanna try and get us moving so that we can get as far through the agenda as possible. Yeah. That's the end slide. Alright. Let me switch slides. Alright, Christ off you're up. Okay. Yes. So this is Me sure jump to the next slide instantly. Talking about the using the sc layout with Md, this has been going on for a while with a long break. So I initially started it with a simple informational draft that was using Nvme document that we didn't decide is up to standards and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "I think it was safe black back that make the comment that we really need to do to properly, and then it just late there for a couple years and then Last year, we actually started doing that proper work because people got interested in in a can So I'm curious once the notes, this was the earliest r you ever released. Sorry. The chair wants out this is the earliest R you ever released in May ten seventeen. Oh, yep. Typo. Typo that I actually like copied from my loss slide deck, so people didn't notice it. Last time I talked about this Most people in the middle ages couldn't read. True. Okay. So next slide and between the four editors that we have on their think we've passed a lot of this document and then we gotta good review from Dave nova that led to a new revision a couple weeks ago. Big change was this actually really moved to the standards track now. Off we had an tenant that we put in all the actual mapping into the document and I think we're basically ready for working group last call now. There's, like, two minor items. Next slide. One is that we really need to agree on a name, so the current name is pointed out by they novak doesn't really fit in very well for standard direct document, and Dave was nice enough to provide an alternative which know very happy with because we're not really talking about transports we're talking about a protocol. So my suggestion below was using the pro N P f to storage devices, Dave black was mostly but not quite happy with it and thought we should dropped the device because otherwise people would think It's an Ssd. I think if I can summarize dave correct while, I actually prefer the storage device term because that's a term from the end spec designating the devices that P s actually talks to. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "probably need to do a little poll what we're going forward with very quick edit. The other thing that Dave No noticed is that we don't have the proper Bc fourteen tech for the Bc fourteen terms in there. And that's because xml to r c v one that this draft has been is written in from back end the day doesn't even support it. Should probably be a quick conversion to either version two or a markdown based format, and I'm gonna look to that after this meeting, I didn't wanna do it just before the dead deadline. Perfect. Yeah. So I think the big controversial is the name right now and everything else. Feel free to report to me, but we're getting down to minor things. To do wanna do... Obviously, we'll wait for the next draft and then go to the list for a working group last call. Paul potentially, Does anybody have any issues with that? Can we just take the name off the table real quick. I think Dave wants to say something. Oh, okay. Name off the table right now. Chris Soft code. If if you strongly prefer to have devices in there, let's just do that. This... One with... This one word is not worth arguing over. Let's say I prefer it chrome might be too strongly worded. Okay. We will take number two. Let's stuart it. Our any further. Okay. Or Anything else? Alright. We'll take that to the list when the the next revision. And send a week or two I'll do new version with a new name and a new base format, and then we can't go through. Thanks Okay. Good. Big man."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "I just understands spanish expect to be going so quickly. Thanks. This... I I was asked to give them a quick update and and start the discussion for the Rd d make commit draft. Next slide. Okay. The slides not oh there we go. Do you like control? Know it's fine. There's only a couple slides. I don't really need control. So this is just an update to remind people that it specifies extensions to rf fifty forty there are three operations in this document. They provide enhanced placement semantics are already made a persistent media not just to memory, but through the bus, to a member of a block of system number where other non volatile rd made addressable devices. Can be used for peer devices actually, as well as memory. If they're addressable by the rd made, address space. It also provides remote content verification and a transactional operation. So it supports database style workloads, shared memory workloads, storage workloads, it's actually quite a versatile set of extension sample. I first published this with a set of earlier c authors back in February twenty sixteen, believe it or not. Seven years ago, it was updated in March. When not ten sixteen, twenty six seen much more modern than in the prior upper the prior. Absolutely. It was updated in March of twenty twenty where we discussed it, I'll talk about that discussion and just second. And again two months ago. Next slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "The proposal is to consider working group adoption. Twenty twenty, we discussed it and we had rough working group consensus. It was largely positive for adoption in the for working group. Todd that an rd made document is in Office four. But the storm rd Gdp groups were previously closed. Ts w g was viewed. As a very broad and non rd x per group nonetheless possible. But N manifest before seemed like the likely candidate because n manifest before itself could consume this protocol. Are experts for present, I'm knocking around the halls of the forward received some comments, no formal action was taken. A little while ago. I refreshed the draft, incorporating those comments and some others. Need some other updates. And I believe it's ready for consideration. I agree. So on the next slide, I'll just highlight a few points catching me between my bad. New deck. Oh, no. Oh, thank got. Still deck. Right. It's slide four... The second last one before the discussion There we go. If it's adopted, there are a few things to consider. Half the doc... Oh, this is the old version of the slides. I was just gonna say the scope and the schedule are probably most important. About half the document is informative. Chuck or made some comments on that. Others have noticed it. I don't know if that content still useful. It's been there since twenty sixteen. I can remove it. Could split it in another document, but we wanna figure it out whether it's relevant. The title is wrong. It needs a new title I propose already replacement extensions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "There are prototypes for this that have been done, but they're not publicly shared or terrible. I'm aware of them, but I can't really tell you what they are because they were done privately. I don't believe it's appropriate to include references this some have asked me for that. There's also a very similar protocol in the En trade Association for Rocky, a set of extensions for rocky and. It's actually standardized. That spec one point six was published last year. Unfortunately, the I spec is closed and available the members only. Actually is fairly expensive just to see it. However, the protocol on application sma are basically identical to this strap. I was involved in that document. So that's not an accident. An experimental linux prototype exists extends the self rocky driver Called. I don't know if these are relevant to this document or to. I just wanted to mention And finally, the software I linux S si driver has an implementation which this could be implemented in. It hasn't been done yet. The extensions up in done yet. But I spoke yesterday or this morning actually to Bernard Metz the. He's said Ibm Zurich. He's very interested in pursuing this work. So think the soft work would be relevant if if it's done soon. So that's all We should discuss whether we should adopt this as a working group. Crystal you're. Well, I just have one comment. If if you don't mind, I agree with the deductibles. But the question then is You mentioned this would be useful by N nfc for. It is gonna be used by N for will probably be through an extension to Rpc over Rd. So no. I don't think it would require that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Okay. Well you would you would in the alternative is that's by how this is spent extension would be used by before in another. And see four document. Sure. That that could be written. I think it would be speculative at this point, it would be one writer's opinion. But a very, very similar effort was done in the Smb three protocol. And it required no change to the Smb three protocol. Actually. To add what we call push. That was one of the prototypes that I'm talked about. Alright. Okay. We have. But I think once this is done, And then once it is... I I think it's fairly far along. It will be interested in using it. So we and that your how would be accommodated. But Yeah. I mean, I would I would love to have that discussion. I I'd be happy to put that on my agenda. For proposing a little bit of discussion in analysis before. That'd be good. County have great interest in the room here with person standing at the mic. To recognize this personal a week. You were you were the... I removed you from the queue. Yeah. Yeah. So... Yes. I I use for more group adoption and I guess, like Can someone turn on Chris mike Yep. Let's do that. Alright. So I absolutely support the working group adoption and well Inn four seems initially an working group as Tom"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "By default, I think this is where the remaining rd experts converge. So unless we have a real problem with the t we should do it. I would absolutely favor splitting up the informational parts can I just kinda quickly on the charter question? I actually reviewed the charter kinda right before the meeting the session today, and I do believe it it fits within for the charter, we might not have a milestone for it, but believe it fits in the chart. Perfect. So I I I think splitting out the informational part that gives a lot of history is probably something we should do before playing it into the working group. And I think before we go to working group last call, we need implementations and the software I is a good start and like, be happy to at least help out a little bit with it even if Bernard is way more qualified, of course. Great. Okay Traditionally, we wrote a problem statement document that contains most of that informative text I I could split it. I think it will look a little weird. But with a little bit of poly it might be it might be okay. And it's probably worth keeping for historical if nothing else purposes. Okay. David Black, you're next? Okay. Like chris talk my strongly supported the option here. I we need the forge of of things here is that of peace on on by the kind history. I think either for work is effectively been designated as would do whatever makes the work is needed on the high work for the cause will which make done working group. And precisely for for for the reason on that slide of Rd the rd expertise is here. And I don't think it's necessary."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "This be used four for the draft to be adopted to got progressed here. Much as it might be nice. Alright. I'm gonna run a hole, which is basically an adoption pull. We'll follow up on the list. But Sounds like we had supported the mic. Hey the paul disappeared before I could select. I didn't Why didn't doing well, I respond to to it. Yeah again. Alright. Let me see if I can do this quickly. That's been raise my hand. Okay. I raising my hand again. It ended. At the end session, button I screwed something up. But I don't know what Else to do to register my vote. This is about. Wrong Yeah we'll count you while, the chair see more, we'll count you as good dave. Either. Good one more time. Sorry, guys. Or having a technology problem. Okay. I'm put hitting raise in. Live results. This dismiss. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "Hey next, I'm gonna start pull up bureau version and just like, you know, stand up and tell me you can't do this. Otherwise, I'm saying, yes. Alright. I'm gonna take it that everybody wants to vote at this point has. And it will hide didn't sense okay. Yeah. About touch because Every time raise okay. Alright. That that looks positive. We'll take it to the list Okay. and do a confirmation, but I expect that that's that's looking good. Okay. Six positive. Okay, Dave. You're on. Okay. Well, This is the first slide and there no fancy graphics on this one. Anyway, Now, okay. So there are four documents. Involved this is. Effort. One is international. That has been a working group document for at least it's at least six months. Now the problem the good part is there's no objections issues that they I heard from anybody. The bad part is there's been no discussion of people are not really interested in this area, but we do have to address it. Especially given what's in Rf c's fifty six sixty one and eighty eight eighty one. Which is just not implemented not implemented about and we just can't go forward that. So the second document is R c fifty six sixty one bi For that, we've just completed it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "did the adoption call or we... I know exactly what what... It started in October and then for a while it was adapted, but we didn't have the right document posted now we've completed that. I think that's good. Then security, I don't know what that somehow got lost in the adoption processes. Process, and we need to fix that. Then is R c fifty six sixty two biz. And somehow that lost, we never really started the adoption process with that one. Okay Let's move on to the next slide. Okay. Let me explain in of why we had to do this? The problem was with R c thirty five thirty was not written the internet. Although we have we have a question from the that... Yeah. If you go back to previous slide. The first one? Yeah. It it it expired. Right? This this document. So basically, I I like to know, Right Like, what's the plan with this document? Coming. This is nobody's working on just getting you know, no not I finish? Let's am I finish first? What? Let me finish first then then then answer. So so this... No... No is working on it. It's not it's getting expired. And no there is no like, discussion or anything under this working was not interest interested. I understand this is really important. So I would like to get the view of this working like, what exactly the plan for this one. Because... Yep. Thank you. First of all, I'm working on it. As far as renewing it, refreshing it I was I was stopped by the fact that I don't know with the date when you're allowed to ...I know that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "that set several days ago, we stop there's the thing you would... And there's no indication anywhere when that ends. So I'm... Any... I mean, when the item meeting opus the submission process again open so you can submitted anytime during this week. Okay. I'll do I'll that Monday. No. Thank you. Then I hope that the... In the sections in slides three through five answer some of your other questions. Okay. Thank you. Okay. On the next slide. Okay. History three there was that the this this group was not really involved in the as international. Rc c thirty five thirty. And it was never implemented And If you if you look at read that detail, you see that It's done and it's basically not possible, useful implant. So We faced this problem for for v four d o, in R c thirty five thirty. Seven Seventy five thirty. Now, And since this is the same, all the implementations are the same it's best than a single document that applies to all of and this four minor versions. One thing that was pointed out by Nico Williams in in his supposed review is no guy guidance for international case insensitive process and handling. And that's one of the reason that documents is as large as is, anyway, let's move on to the next slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "So as far as the next steps, which is which is addresses the heads question. The document does designated you further. For the review. This probably things wrong with it. But is the little working group interest in in this area. And I can't magically created anything and neither it. So we just have to deal with that fact. Anyway, We had it earlier, we had a review by the in international commercialization team. And someone suggested that we just ask ask for some help and david Blacks suggested some people. And I sent an email, and that email was interpreted as a request for for for an early review. And when we got that review, it didn't... It did... We asked specifically about guidance about the but domain international has domain names and some changes that were necessary in that because it changes in in those documents. Never got that. And what we got is review by Nico which is basically although the the tagline line was This is on the right track. Really Was should I should done something entirely different. Applies to lot more file systems and treated the file system itself as as as as an entity on a par with the client and the server, and that was just not workable and I explained that to Nico. Anyway, We still need to get a meaningful review up from outside the group. Let's go on to the next slide. Lars is in you? Okay. Hey is. This is Lars. So so I think so the haiti needs to find somebody from art to work with you guys on this because what what's gonna happen if guys do this document isolation that's gonna go up to the."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "That review team that you don't like is gonna review it and you're gonna get a discussed on then you have to do the work. So so this... Is this is really hard to get right as you well know. Thanks for holding your pen for so long. I think we need to find, like, like, Nic was sort of assigned. I think it's an outside expert. Right? And and so gotta find some person like that again, because I think Nico disappeared from the Ihs in the meantime. But I think this needs to be written with with that team together with team and and some comprising needs to be found because otherwise, it's just not gonna go forward. Thanks. Okay. Thank you for that comment and I I hope that you and za had be able to find the right person. And I hope the right person exists. Okay. Stuff Yeah. So I finally found some time to look through that document and to be honest, it makes me a little unhappy. And part of that is just n if it's for always had a weird idea of how international could work in the environments it's in and has been focusing a lot on the wrong kinds of problems and I don't think the document substantially in truths on that while actually also creating interoperability problems. Right? So I I think we're much better trying to take a step back and figure out what the actual implementations do and how that how that maps to the text and the previous draft. And then the the other big problem I've with the document is that it's trying to cover four and ordered one in one document, which I think creates a lot more confusion than it solves. So I think you're quite time to write this down, but I'm not happy with the state of that document. Okay. Let me address the issue, but both minor versions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "All implemented there's no implementation I've session. Distinguishes which is making to be four zero and v four dot one. They're all the same. There are those who basically adapted adapt the the handling of I mean a nice session of if it's me through, essentially none do the same thing vc before to know. And the those that rely power system to do to do normalization independent found them comparison. They're the same in four. There is no difference. This is better I think. Whatever you think about the current document, better done Now we have a document for for for or Rf, fact seventy five thirty. Now one we'll just duplicate that one pop one would just duplicate that document for before that one, but there's no point in that. And the other is the issue that nik raised if you which is how can they handle an internet customization for where your case in that case case and sensitive. So Maybe we can just withdraw that. Okay. So Let's... Okay. I think that Let's just deal with the fact that there's been disagreement at that. Let's go on the next slide next. So do you have a comment? Hold on. Sorry. Dave, we have three people with comments."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "So ahead first? As I have So So the first one, I mean, do do you have, like, any kind of like, what kind of mini you review you want once in the next slide, maybe I can comment on up that one, but what's than the next slide. It's it's it's it's not about national session. It's okay. Okay. Alright. Yeah. Okay. So but I think that covered this one. Already. So the thing is, like, I think I think last pointed out like, I mean, we need to find somebody from the team they do the review. But the question was, like, did you Nico kind of, as you mentioned, nico kind of suggested like, we do something different. So what's the view on that one? I mean, I I what you said like you're working on changes? Like, is is that what you're working on or like Well, I'm just I'm just Currently, I'm I'm working on refreshing the document. And I I I don't I don't see major changes. I don't agree with the with crystal. About what major changes would be... Talking Was talking about, like, nico comment. Did you Did you address that one. There was there in discussion with the review team. And did you make a decision? On the working group decision, what to do with the previous reverse review? Because I mean, if... I'm going to find somebody new, like, And then there is already a review, which is not addressed and what's the point. Funding a new reviewer. So was it was Nichols review address somehow. Well, I addressed one of the points in that was was which was handling of of of case and sensitive international."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "I think I did that. The his difference of approach, I I know. Wasn't dressed in that. I just told told him then his approach did not make sense. And that was the one thing that the management of the at a group really. They thought nigga was crazy. I didn't think he was crazy, but I think what the you proposed was work Okay. Okay. So so that let me see. So then I understand. So at least we at this some previous comments, review comments so we can find a new one. And then I am come... I Want to come back to Christopher. You, I think you had a very good comment here. I was like, thinking like, if you're you'll be able to provide, like, a kind of a review of this current document, so that dave and us all kind of like, to discuss on that one. Would it be possible? Yeah. Okay. That's great. So if you they... Case would give some reviews and you work on it And then in the meantime, I'm trying to find from the suggestion review team. Makes sense? Makes perfect sense. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. I'm organizing the queue. Hold on. I I think I bounced david by that my system is working. David Black First Okay. So last time we had looking for an appropriate reviewer the answer turned out repeat resting. Not gonna make viruses and the x had search for a good good good review or any easy as because deep was very was very, very good. And so... I hope you have enough machinery. And leverage the see off what Nick I was trying to do because we did this one for last miss was because when the S r was going to Ie. It is cool idea for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "international flipped on N f s and nobody implemented it. That was the nest that I think eating my cell phone involved not k. Yeah. And I I think the root problem goes back to that and for that and that is the vast majority of N nsf server implementations do not implement internet international, at least for file names period, they export whatever international commercialization semantics underlying file system has. And if we fail to take account of that, that's just gonna get us into this endless with people that are trying to get international right like Nico, which in theory are very, very good points except for typical n nfl server implementations they are not applicable because There is no way the N nfl server can do this if the underlying fo doesn't do it, And point number two is that Yes, case insensitive n a servers where exports absolutely exist. But they're not really the case that matters. So while we should handle them, what what really matters for most existing and potential food future n users is an N nfl server that sits on a vaguely uni like file system that is case sensitive, and that doesn't do any normalization. And if we don't accept the fact that this is what actually matters and the next the probably nick's most important case is a false that could or could not be case insensitive and does Normalization and deep down in the fall that the n interface server doesn't have access to. I don't think we're gonna make any progress on this. Wait. So brian pla. N nfl servers since the dawn of time have failed to flee implement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "many semantics. Of the N enterprise protocol. You know, us, it worked and everything else didn't. So it's I don't think the protocol protocols is gonna solve the problem. We just need to the protocol is not gonna be but international translator. Maybe I misunderstood you. The server implementation is gonna to have to somehow make itself work with clients. So that it can actually perform. That's the history here. Yes. Yeah. We agree. Yes. And what I'm saying is in practice no matter what's in the spec what we have For most use cases, is just files and this ported over interface in pretending, we can do all kinds of international commercialization magic that might theory be very useful is not helpful because that's not what's gonna happen in practice no matter what we put in spec. It we'll accept the case. That we do have one instance with the file system that does normalization independent name matching. And the that's was I had to allow that since that was part of seventy five. I and I assume that it's the same for v four zero zero n four dot one. I think that's why we wrote or c seven five thirty. As we did and why adopted the same approach in this stack. Okay. I think Chris just gave me a quite way of saying now we understand why this document wasn't just adopted immediately. So we're gonna take this to the list for further discussion, and I would actually like to participate in that. Interesting. Okay. So I'm in the market for going to the list David Back have anything to add on? Or can we do it down list? I very quickly agree with where Chris office is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "digging which is fundamentally. You wanna let the the names in the underlying export file system show through and the less talking and interface does with those names the happier everyone's going to be in figuring out actually going on. Okay. I I can I don't know how and in Have language? You can say less dark, but I agree in the sentiment. Okay. So we're take it to the list And I apologize. I'm writing my notes here in the It approved notepad. It is still filling out what I typed five minutes ago on Christ former comment. So I will go into the minutes and dig out what happened. Okay we'll take list. What's next Okay. Sure. Okay. Five for and your time spot dave. Sorry? You have five minutes left to cover this. The rest of them. I guess I won't cover it. But anyway, Let me just focus on the main document which is Our c fifty six fifty one disc. Now the motivations there were address the rod reports. Including some that were rejected. And I think, you know, Tran had some problems with these being rejected, but there was necessary court rules that reject rejected them. But that doesn't mean that the work group is not free to change his mind. And and and that is the approach I I take. I take the current six. The big thing here in... It is to accommodate A lot of things that have history for wide documents. When is R, the already written R c eighty one seventy eight. Which is the new rules for minor versions and extensions. New national document that we just discussed and new security document which you won't have time to discuss."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "And also to get rid of other documents which jeff, would update Rf c fifty six sixty one eighty eighty one. For example, R c eighty four thirty four is a document which updates R fifty six sixty one, and that needs and in a that is not currently that but in later, updated document. Have to incorporate what that document said and use it to revise not only but substantially, but to revise the two chapters on on P. Anyway, let's... That... That's the motivation for wide why been spending a lot of my life on this document. Anyway, let's go ahead and next next slide. So We now have a dash zero zero which has just been just did. Which is just a which I've just submitted even after the just some confusion about the adoption call. So I changed a whole lot of stuff to address all the... Almost all the routed reports those do a few that. Left mostly related to P. And amazing changes to adapt to the new document straight. Most of those are done, but there's sun un unresolved that you wrote Security, which which relate to the the board line between document and secured document that I And their new append describing the progress of the work. Because this is This is I'm expecting this document to go on over time, and we need to keep track of what we've done and we haven't done what still needs to be decided or addressed. And those they're append append a and b. Which was okay. Let's not next next next let's slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "Okay. Now the then zero zero that just posted relative to the last you, which was dash or five and that one is also inspiring. I don't care. Anyway, corrections of typos, that somebody what number of people point out to me. Chunk lever ask that the discussion of the works pride perhaps makes more sense append as is in security. So I created append a and b, in z. Now I think as we work to work in in in the room meetings, will use those append as a guide and took where we are and where we have done. to And there was some dispute the chunk mess myself, but where you use the term encryption and confidential. I I made some changes toward using combination. I think we still don't fully agree on that. And I think one of the in in dash one o one will I expect some this further discussion between checked on myself probably on the list. About where will use one where is the other. Okay. That's let's go on to the next one more slide, and I think how much time do I have left? Forty five seconds. Forty five seconds. Okay. Maybe I'll do I'll rush through this. So I think there's some important that remain And these things that we'll be discussing in some of the weekly meetings. So turn I has disagreement about P has security benefit. I I think I do... I do this although I don't do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "in our... I do this in Rc c fifty six fifty one disc. Since N nsf security is an alternative that suggested by check was in his period. I don't think eve that would work very well because The security document is focused on the role of Rpc and how you use it And So I think I think that continues to put a bit point of controversy that will be discussed on the list. I think I I think now that That posted this document, And I hope... And also we may check may mind may not have and I may have disagreements about confidentiality confidential adverse encryption. Okay. Now this is the last slide, and I'm gonna have to that this what is the further work that needs to be done in on this document? I think the first point is chances of that were made they're summarized in the append. And I think I I I hope people will review that, look at the append and bringing issues to the list and we can address these and at at the at the interim meetings. And there are also some issues in appendix see. One is there some a lot of cases that just were the use of our twenty one nineteen terms is either they're unclear or wrong and is an issue with the handling of reports. Basically, it says you must... When you issue a request, you must not terminate that until you get a response Well, many clients including all the ones I know, an include Linux client"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "do not obey that. That must for good reason, because someone may hit control c and terminate the transaction. But I don't think you can have a issue of where it says you must not do a and everybody every implementation. Violet that must. And also I need as has mentioned in append is to update the discussion of directed delegation. Because think there are a lot of gaps in our which was discussed several ago. In our performance of directory operations, and this can be addressed by director evaluation, but for Derek Dell the basin. The allegation to be usable. So things have to be clarified, and I I will also discuss that on unless So I think that I think my time is up if if you have time look at the remaining six slides, but I My time is up. Okay. This is slide the summary. Yep. I know that the document was posted relatively recently. If I can get you know, kind of a quick informal poll, our folks intending to kind of review and look at what's there? Alright. That's not like a good sign. I'll bring this back up as a kinda talk at the end of the meeting about interim meetings. Alright. Moving on. Move on. Well, now try that to go to sleep. The meeting over is over. Off. Should be on, I think. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "The allegation state Ids can excite please? First published in thousand eighteen, kinda medium for what we're doing. Again, we had a break just because we did, We have an open source implementation of a client The reason why I'm pushing the agenda here is and next slide communicator once this to be an open standard before he will take it into the decline officially. And we were accepted for working group last call an Ia and that got derailed. fourteen team, So afterwards. By one individual. So I Next slide, please. So since one fourteen we've informed it's not ready, addressed major issues from David. Reviews. I... The major one is I split out the so weak cash consistency into a new document. And at this point, I want a solid plant enter Last call, because the either ready where we can identify why not. And That's that for this document, I believe. Okay. I'm gonna wanna do a quick poll who's actually read and done a review. Well, I I've read done a review. I haven't done it review since it changes and I I I will do that within the next few weeks, but My impression is not probably ready. Has anybody else? Yes. And can I get So Ti, mick Alright. So you got one I can't spell his last name? more bigger and then Rick Mc. Okay. Has read as well. These are on the mailing list they've given reviews. Alright. That's good enough. Alright. And know... What, I mean, obviously, we'll take this to list no other objections to a last call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "We'll take it to the list, but Sounds like it's in been reviewed Right. Thanks. What one was that? I'll just go with everyone. That was the... Okay. Alright. So This is reporting of errors via layout return So the problems thing, we we I actually introduced this in one fourteen, and we decided to I I asked you should I bring it into the Del and consensus was no... Let's present a new document. So here, I have the new document. And it's basically a way to allow the client to report back to the server why it hasn't done a file recovery on a file. Well the reason it hasn't is because there are errors present and it will allow us to smartly break the mirror. Next slide, please So the the way to do this is use lab return with an all zero anonymous state Id It's a simple extension, it doesn't break existing implementations because If they don't support it, they're gonna return bad state Id. Next slide, please. Is there another sign? Alright. And I've submitted it as a draft. I'm looking for become a working group document there's been again, two reviews on the mailing list from the same individuals I mentioned earlier. To this document. And I've I since updated that draft one zero to draft one, this morning. With their with my responses to the review comments. No wait. That was w c. Am alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:07",
    "text": "So paul if you support adopting this into the working group, Yeah. I... Well, okay. I just Vote yes. But I have one question about this. This does this apply to all map types, or is this only Oh, thank you, David. That's a good question. It only applies I actually have to revisit that. That was one of the the things that I believe T brought up and I can't recall what I responded to him. So I will go and address that issue. Okay. Right. So this question is not layout. There will be an issue before we go to live. Last call. Right. I mean, I'm really asking... I mean, it sounds like this is a great conversation. Yes. But I'm really asking, it sounds like there's motivation in the working group to actually resolve the issues and advance the document does anybody have any issues with that? And is it more than just you and Dave obviously, there's more reviews on the list. So that's positive. Anybody have any issues with adopting it within the working group. And the pull is up I'll give everybody, you know, a moment more. Staring at me. Okay. Last afternoon. There's a lot of clicking in between all this. Oh I'm saying. I'm clicking as fast as I can."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "Alright. So this is the layout week cash consistency. And again, It was part of the Delta. I David had review comment. It would be great to split them out. So I I did take that. And I... And it... This is the... I'm I messed up early. This is the one I've refresh this morning with the changes from Ti and rick where they had pointed out some some issues they wanted address about being clear what fields we would be returning and when it was applicable to use this new call. So And I I don't think anyone else looked at the documents since it's split I have from it. I I I should do that. From the state of what you just said, I'd like to do a last call on the list after we get a few more reviews. Okay. Best fair and not do the adoption quite yet. Yeah. I'm a I'll here with that. Well, it's already been adapted. Sorry. Last call. It's really working document. Yeah. Last call, since he's just done an update that address some issues. I'd like to see a review or two, and then we can do a working group on. Time with that. Okay. And I believe I'm done. I think so. Thank. Looks you do it for here. Yeah. I don't know. Alright. Good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "Can I see the next slider two? Okay. Let me sort of I'm channel my inner chuck. This is Brian Pla. Top paper just want to give an update to the group on Rpc tls implementation status. There was published for what was R c nine two eight nine. Work's been done in previously job clients Space server Linux client. And server and the Ng model module. Next, Yeah. So just some just a description of somebody implementation a Linux colonel security, community insisted on how to colonel handshake implementation be enough call wanted to minimize the kernel attack surface by running code in the context with lesser privilege, you can read this as well as I can. So the Linux stuff is working and running and they've made some security decisions on the implementation. Okay. Okay. The the lens client's implementation is it's still working progress near completion. And they're doing nvme over Tcp and possibly internal quick. Are you tracking... Do you still track quick? You know about Chuck doing this? I know. Okay. I I I was asking... Sorry ask lars about if you up to I know that the Microsoft quick stack can be running the kernel because it's running in Windows kernel. But and I know that some people have looked"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "running it inside Linux as well, but I don't know what the state is the t is. Okay. It might also be some from scratch we don't know, but they're doing in the current line. Okay. I one to possibly beans possibly in the future. Okay. Just descriptions of how you are can set up the Tl Tls stuff in Lu N nfl server. Next slide. Is it the last one? Yeah. And and then where you can pull the code down and a handshake agent and then coming soon and past tells. Chuck just wanted the say implementation of work is proceeding, wanna to let people know about it. Thanks. We have one more presentation, but I think we're actually gonna have a little bit of time for some of the topics that we thought we'd might be able to discuss at the end. So Just as a I've. Pushing you time. We verify slide deck for The last agenda is sequence Id calibration. From Yeah. Is he in use on. I this is consolidation I'm talking from I'm in Chance that. Check laptop. Oh right. So been slides You did post slides and I missed it?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:05",
    "text": "Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Do we get access to share the slides? Alright. I I turned on turn on slide control. For you? Yep. Okay. There is a list of slides where we are not able to see our slides. Who's sent? Okay. Hold on. I have him. Okay. Okay. Sorry about this. This is this is my fault. I missed them."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:09",
    "text": "Nice to have everybody watch me see how fast I can manipulate the data tracker? Just a few more clicks. Sorry. Expecting something from us. No. No I'll I'm doing it. Almost. Okay. Almost there isn't there enough. Let's refresh it again."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:12",
    "text": "Alright. When screw this up, it would be nice if it was a little bit easier to fix on the fly. Look for the future. They're not coming... So this is Maybe this is a question of to the folks who share more often the Powerpoint isn't getting converted on these share desktop. Yes. Yeah. We can do that. Yep. To share the screen. Okay. I love to do it myself. Go ahead. It's all yours. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:18",
    "text": "So be out. Too. Like to discuss about one of the error code error scenario in dot one. And its impact on the ongoing io operations as well as Us semantics So whenever whenever we see whenever the the the player detects sequence the reply will return percent of on data. To the request. So what request has to do is not very clearly defined in r. So what we have seen on the client side is try to destroy the session and this position. And what we have seen, you know, in some of the scenario than this what's happening, but we don't have a clear reason why the has happened. When this has happened, it was it was, you know, impacting the are operations and as well as the exactly semantics. Because the request on the at this slots. Not only the slot in which the has happened as being dropped and the new session is being established. So we would like to to at least mitigate some of this issue, you know, so that the other slots are not getting impacted. So we would like to propose two new operations from the request site. Which can actually try to, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "minimize the impact of the order request. Only to the particular slot. The issue has happened So for this, we are we are twenty two operations sequence query, and the C sequence query So this sequence query when the request it's order response from the reply. Request can send a sequence query operation to the to the reply. To check what is the sequence in... What is the sequence of particular slot in which response expected. And the reply can send the on and the request then the client, then actually decide, you know, better it can actually be able to advance this signal id to the sequence Id that of the server. And then proceed with our operation. Or it can also choose to drop and then re establish decision. But we will give this choice to the client, you know, to do that particular action. So the client is able to do the recovery by just advancing the sequence Id. And then proceeding. So this can actually minimize the impact on the io operations as well as the Ios us semantics So So these are the two operations which have interesting, we which we wish to be part of the next out. For that one. So the click query I can send the session Id and the slot Id in which the request is set up and that responder other client can send the session Id to id and the current sequence Id where it does. So where what is the current sequence Id of the particular slot. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "So after this handshake client can then decide request you can then decide, What action could be can be taken based on this. So we have added operations for both No. Friend channel and the back channel. For the for the four line? And so that both sessions, you know, can handle this in the manner, you know, where it can have a listen impact. And we have drafted the I in a way that this sequence up. This for the session, but this can happen for the sequence for even the client. So we have also added session as well as the client sequence Id you know, how to reduce that impact by having this query from the request. There's a question in the queue Tom? Yeah. My question is what caused a order sequence in the first place? Is it protocol problem? Or is it an implementation problem? I mean, Why why add operations to something that could be avoided in the first place. Yeah. So we had not seen the issue in the particular in our lab environment, but we have seen this in the production. So from the limited from the limited logs, what we see. Maybe we suspect that the there could be some network part station or or some something that issue which could have cost them disordered request Oh. Yes. I'm sorry. I interrupted. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. So we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "we are we... So it could be even a software bug But what we have seen is, you know, we don't... Even without any issue in the sequence Id checking or implementing. We do... We did see some disorder request. So in the so... But we do have an rf there says that that could be request, but we don't have explanation and the rf like, how do we really handle this Okay. That that's that's a good point. And that that, but that's that's not a protocol change. That's potentially just the document, something missing the document. Not I'm questioning if if we don't understand why the ordering occurred? I mean, ordering would indicate of fatal problem. Some you know, some request was lost on the reliable connection. That would be a really bad situation. Right? And so if the client is server out of sync, there's probably an implementation issue to me. And if there's a protocol issue, The last thing we wanna do is slab a new operation to fix it wanna get to the root plus. So I'm... I'm not sure I understand. I I I think I need to be convinced that there's a product something significantly wrong with the protocol before we extended it in a way that fixes a book. Well I don't know what that is based on what we've said so far. Yeah. We trying to understand that, but with the limited logs, we were not able to identify where exactly the problem was, but we we don't... We don't see a problem. Or a software drug in the server implementation. Not sure maybe he's there could be some issue on the client, which is you know, the sequence, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "yeah. The software cannot be rolled out yes. It it it it is a possibility But we would also want to find way by which you know, we can from this scenario but I I not and entirely, you know, confident that it is only a software bug. I think there there is... There is a... There may a scenario there is a order request as right? On a available reliable connection. Yeah. So we don't well. Yeah. Normally a disordered request should never happen. I mean, if if the client sent them an order, and the transport delivered them in order, then they darn well better be in order. So you know, there's I don't know what the recovery should be, it's an impossible the situation. So that's what kind of uses me. I I'd like to take a question from tom Hai So so regardless of of that fact the other point is that you're introducing new op codes on top of four dot one and not four point two. The operations that you're proposing are already occupied by other operations. So you'd have to go change this Yeah. Tom I think seventy two on the front forward request, I believe is not being used by four dot two. We checked the photo two voice. Please go to the end... I mean, this this go to the end of four dot two and start using it that's we've been tacking on operations at the end. I'd I'd like to see as not put him in the middle. If yes. Yes. Yes. We we checked that in the photo two. And then what I see is seventy two is seventy one is the last version on product two. And we added seventy two So oh Okay. I did you check"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "just the four the two document or did did you check existing extensions to for that too. So you'd have to... Okay. We have not extension. Okay. Okay. We have not seeing the extension maybe the release document is what we checked Maybe maybe we can we can also see the extensions and adjust to the operations accordingly, like, draft. Yeah. So there are the extended that are in that those slots Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So other rather been Yeah. Well point was, you will be we would have to have a mechanism in the scene, which states that you know how to handle business audit. Even it should even unlikely to happen, but you know, how can we reduce the impact and have a like I understand in sea which can? Yeah august. Hold. My"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:06",
    "text": "we done. We seem to lost everybody in the room. Well. Bye. Hello yeah. So we are able to here now. Well, the remote participants can hear each other, but we can't hear anything from the room. I wonder if they lost their network Hello. Hi. Is there a problem from our side or Is it a problem? Not able to see the chair."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:07",
    "text": "Yeah. The room seems to disappear the people in the room in New."
  }
]
