[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "Hello, welcome Good morning, good afternoon, good evening wherever you are. This is the man Working Group. We have a one-hour session, so we're going to get going The slide, just the session so we're going to get going. The slide just gives some details about the working group and the chairs We've got Ronald, Don in the room and we've got Donald online And we've also got Jim, our age online Just draw your attention to the Notewell slide Most of you will already have seen this, but we were told to give you a minute just to go over it. It talks about the policies and procedures, the IETF and the expected behavior itself were told to give you a minute just to go over it. It talks about the policies and procedures, the IETF, and the expected behavior, etc. If you have any, if you need any more information there's a lot of pointers on here to information And if you have a question about anything, please ask And we also bring your attention to the note really well about the behavior in the group, our anti-harassment procedures, and that we maintain an environment that's good for working friendly environment and again if you have any questions or issues, you can consult the documentation on this So, uh, some notes again, you've mostly all seen this, please sign into the Datatracker Just a note, this is a one-hour session"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "so this room, Anima, will be after this So I don't the Datatracker will take care of that, but anyways just a note If you're in the room, you can use the light client and you should use the client to get into the queue and please make sure your audio and your phones are off, etc So we have a fairly short agenda We've got the agenda bashings. We'll go over the mile milestones. We have a presentation on OLSR V2-12 tweet by christopher dearlove and another presentation on IPV addresses for ad hoc networks from fred templin and then we're reserved some time for charter revisions discussions and wrap up Thank you want to take this part? Okay Yeah, a brief update on where we are with some long-pending drafts that we have We have been making progress in the last few months And this is all about the credit-based flow control D-lap extensions two of the graphs which in fact just define the extension ID are now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "past IETF lost call and the other two of this cluster of four have just entered IETF class call so by next week or so they probably also make it true we haven't seen any comments yet And then there's a bunch of directorate reviews going on for these drafts as well but yeah there in the pipeline. What will follow? is of course the reviews by all ADs and we fully expect there to be some discusses and comments, but we deal with them as they come along I am the document shepherd for these drafts anyway Next Um drafts by Henning Rogge about physical layer based DELAP extensions that were adopted into the working group about five months ago or something something We really, really, really could use some reviews and comments on these i mean don has just commented on one of these i i i also have some comments in the works, but it would be really good if other working group participants would be able to have a look at these and state their opinion and suggest changes then we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "two related drafts beyond the two that are on the agenda and will be presented today There's this draft by David Lou and co-authors. That was presented, I think last summer in San Francisco since then there have been two updates However, when we asked for when we did the call for presentation, for this meeting, we did not receive a reaction from those guys AODV was presented in Brisbane by charles perkins And when we come to the charter update part of the session, we'll talk about that a little bit more Jim, you can end in the queue Yeah, I just wanted to clarify for the working group that the four documents that I have right now two of them, as you mentioned, have already finished last call and two are in last call I haven't moved them forward. I'm going to move them forward as a block of four because they're in interrelated. So I figured it was best to put them all through in one shot then the IESG reviewers will have some some background um so that's why you wouldn't seeing those two that have already gone through last call on the telechat yet. I just wanted to make that clear Okay, thank you. Yeah, that's perfectly fine And that's actually what we would we would that's our reference anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "anyway Is there another slide on Brostit? that's it that's it right Okay, so next up on the agenda, oh, if we have any note takers, please contribute to the notes We do have the closed captions, which we have been consulting heavily on for notes, etc. But please if you can contribute to the notes, that's great Okay, christopher janz, you have the floor Okay, this is a presentation on us short internet draft, which put together just covering a small gap in OLSRV2 used in certain ways ways Next slide, please So the motivation is one particular scenario which I'm about to which I'm about to the but it doesn't limited to use in that specific case. Next slide, please okay so the motivation is the case of a near static network where nodes are arriving, nodes departing, but nothing else is happening So fixed period messages might not be one way of doing that, might not be the best way to handle those One approach is backing off message into intervals which is not actually specifically just described in any draft, but it's, but because over the self parameters can be changed at any time is an option The motivation here is the more extreme case not having any periodic messages at all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "or only some periodic messages but that's merely the some motivating case. Next slide, please as I say, supposing any networks arriving or sending OLSRV2 is very much got the options of only sending messages responsive messages, as we call them, because the word reactive was taken in response to network changes. I mean, normally, those would be in a addition to periodic messages, maybe allowing longer periods. So that's, so responsive messages is not new And you could implement no periodic messages at all by just setting in it for the very long which is effectively infinite days message interval is if you want to actually implement it given an existing implementation of OLSRV2. Next slide, please So there are two effects we're talking about. Routers arriving, Routes departing We're assuming everything else is static for purposes of this example So what happens to? We're assuming everything else is static for purposes of this example. So what happens when if a new router turns up, we'll get an exchange of hello message in its neighbourhood, assuming everything's responsive and all neighbours we updated and all too hot neighbours will be updated Everything will work locally If a router leaves, maybe that router can send a hello message with no information in it with no neighbours to say it's going. If it doesn't, need that, and we can't rely on the data link layer because all we need is a binary, I'm not here So maybe the data link or the absence of it could do that for you or failing that you would actually still need tom strickx to having hello messages in order for locally OLSRV2 to work in this scenario. Next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "So we might still need periodic hello messages but TC messages are are getting slat ryan cross talk there from someone someone josh cohen, could you, yes thanks. So, T.C messages, and do we still need those? in this static scenario? And it's worth noting that T messages are the main barrier to the scalability of them scope still need those in this static scenario and it's worth noting that TC messages are the main barrier to the scalability of the scaleable the message is go up linearly with the number go up their constant locally, to any one node, but TC messages the bigger your network is, the more TC messages anyone node has to send So we'd like to not have to send them. So we could stop sending them in this scenario. But what happens? So routers will accumulate information about departed routers because nobody's told them they're going because they're not because they're not sending that information out. But, and there's not argument in the draft to say why this is the case. I'm just going to say it here that information doesn't do any harm because it's never used And the new router was send out TC messages specifically when it as it learns its neighbors as it sets up its NPRs and all the rest of that stuff. So remote routers will get to find out about new routes that are turning up but that doesn't work in reverse and that's the key point, the reason for this draft If a new router pops up, although remote routers may get to find out about the new router, the new router won't find out about anything in the network beyond its local neighbourhood, at least using the message that are advised in LSRV2 Permitted, you can send anything at any time. So we're talking about non-abakhine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "compatible changes. Next slide please. So one solution to the problem of not knowing what's going on globally is some sort of local database exchange, which has been proposed in the literature and there's a reference in the draft but that's not a backwardly compatible change, or at least in the sense we're talking about here and so that not part of this draft The general, the solution within the scope of using existing, messages, not creating new messages, which are local databases exchange would be, is that a router can is that a remote router could send a TC message when it learns that a new mooters popped up and how would it learn a new route? has popped up. That would be because it adds an advertising remote router two-pull to its set. So therefore, the proposal is that the that a remote router has the option of set sending a TC message when it when that scenario turns up and you'll notice I say may should shall in the draft there's a suggestion for when it may, when it should, and when it shall um may because it already may, because there's already permission for routers to send messages whenever they want to, but there's no suggestion that they should do so. Should? if you're heavily relying on responsive messages in your network that's the way you designed it then you should send messages in that case. And if you're fully following the approach of no period of message at all, then in order for the network to work, we're into a shall And that is, so the core of the proposal is just the normative part of the process is basically that last paragraph"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "well those last two paragraphs everything else that I've presented is motivation rather than normative text And so on to the next slide we which says I've basically presented where this is coming from and what it says as it says, there's a couple more slides that I decided to leave out for the reasons of time But we'll see how if people have any questions Yes, we have Julius in the queue Hi. So I think so the idea of having reactive features and the proactive protocol is a very old idea. The oldest normalized case of that I know are the reactive extensions to RIT. Remember RIT? This, probably the first Yeah. Before my time, yes, I know of it Okay, and that was deprecated because it didn't work very well and I know that a lot of people have tried doing things like that, trying to and the results have been that if you manage to get it work, it doesn't work very well. The problem is that if you're trying to be reactive in a proactive protocol, there is some point at which you are doing, you are going to do a path discovery and the path, in your case, it's going to be TC exchange, and you end up in actual networks finding out that the amount of traffic is larger than the amount of traffic you would have by being purely practical. Now, I'm not saying that you're not going to succeed. What I'm saying is that if you do succeed, I'm going to learn a lot. That this is not a trivial thing So I encourage you to try it out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "and uh i am definitely encourage you to try it out but I think that as long as we don't have any evidence that it actually can be made to work, I will I don't, I'm not sure that a normalization group is the right place to do those things of experiments unless we have good evidence that it actually can be made to work I think that's a fair comment I Unfortunately, my position in being able to carry out those experiments is essentially not there because I am no longer, I am now a retired person no longer working for BAC systems so I used to work. And you're in a great position to the because I am no longer I am I am I am now a retired person no longer working for the A system so I used to work and you're in a great position to do the experiments oh believe me what I want I'm making tentative inquiries but it's not really working to say what I'd like is access to the software. I wrote for my former employer to, that has. Sure, I understand but the point is the point is that if you manage to make it work I'm going to steal your ideas for Babel straight away and take it as a compliment right okay thanks for comments Okay, is that, is that it? The only thing sorry the only thing I would say is that I think the working group has a sort of, um, uh, options of saying yes, we'll adopt this and we'll consider it or we'll say no, no thanks, we don't need this week. It's uh, up to the working group and discussions up here and on the list as to whether it wants to take this any further or not. We'd like that take it to the list then and get comments and then we can consider the next action based on the comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Yes I think it would be fully covered by the current Charter to pick this up so that should not be uh reason not to do it because I would see this as all as RV2 maintenance and extensions and that's that's covered yes I would see this as ORAS RV2 maintenance and extensions and that's covered. Let's get some comments. It's another case like, is it 7466 or 7446? I forget which, too many numbers we'll take one more comment Let's do here just responding to the previous comment about trying to put some reactive behaviors in a primarily proactive routing protocol and how that was likely to pan out In my admittedly somewhat limited experience, that's going to be sent sensitively dependent upon the rate of topological change I've dealt with networks where the, you know, where the joins and the splits are quite infrequent and so there's maybe a little bit of flurry of traffic at that point but that's it and it doesn't create a big burden on those networks I think that the motivating scenario doesn't he joins and splits but the option and maybe it's a question of presentation of the option the option be something that might accelerate the formation of a less static and one that's still using periodic messages, but longer than, but longer ones anyway yeah okay Okay, could we get the next speaker? Fred?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "Hi, I'm Fred Tim templin from Boeing, and this is about IPV6 addresses for at Hockman networks. So before we get started, let me just first ask you to all imagine that we were all instantly trapped to the Northwest Territories with nothing but the closed that we're wearing on us and our cell phones There's no cell towers within hundreds of miles, but we should be able to form a little ad hoc network among ourselves just from our cell phones going device to device. So go to the next chart, please So with that, would look like in terms of a top topology is something like this where we have a partial mesh where nodes have neighbors node N2 in this example, for example, has neighbors with nodes n4 and 3 and n1 but then only has neighbors with nodes N2 and then 5 So we should be able to do multi-hop communication to keep all nodes within this mesh, or all of us, there in the Northwest Territories, able to be in communication with each other But the question is what kind of addresses do we put on our radio interfaces when we're in this ad hoc mode with ourselves? phones? R.C. 5889, recommends globally unique addresses and unique local addresses But the problem with that is that isolated ad hoc network coordinated provision is often not possible So when we go to the Northwest Territories, we don't have a DHCPV server with us and we don't have a router setting a router average advertisements without prefix information options that we can do stateless address auto configuration from. RC-50 5889 also explains why link local addresses are limited use it's because the ad hoc network interfaces multiple in nature. So look at that Node 2, for example We have a single interface, but three points to point links underneath it it's a multi link it's not just a single link. So what we really need is a new type of addresses called multi-link local addresses They have to be extremely high assurance of an ad hoc network unique They need to be self-generated by the node"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "or coordinated with the registration authority and the unique properties need to persist across network petitions and merges. Must be able to support localized multi- forwarding over multiple links, and we assign them to the ad hoc network interfaces as slash 128s no prefix just all all identifications Next chart, please So these MLAs are 128-bit identifier with well-formed IPV6 prefixes not also Next chart, please. So these MLAs are 128-bit identifiers with well-formed IPV-6 prefixes, and that also makes them valid IPV6 addresses The nodes assigned the MLAs to interfaces slash slash optimistic addresses, according to RFC 44 And you see in the figures to the right there, we've now assigned addresses to these interfaces that are all slash one 128's the nodes inject the MLAs into the ad hoc network routing protocols as host route Example routing protocols are the ones that come from this group. It supports ad hoc network local IPv6 multi hop routing and forwarding and it also applies equally for static networks that are not particularly mobile or wireless. That's why this has been targeted for six man instead of manage because it's for all ad hoc network types, not just mayonnaise Next chart So I've already covered this. I won't go into this chart again, so let's go to the next one So there's three different types of MLAs that we're looking at right now. The first one called type one starts with the prefix 2001 TBD colon-colon slash 28. And we want this to be an IPV6 prefix of 28 bits followed by 100 range bits. The 100 bits of randomness makes sure that collisions are extremely unlikely So IPv6 nodes can self-generate these addresses and assert them with an ad hoc local scope. And these names addresses should not appear in a global name service and there's an example of what one might look like. Next chart The next type 2 is 2 is called Orchid B2, which is overlay rotting cryptographic host identifier. And it's also known"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "in RC 7401 as the host identity tag It begins with the prefix 2001 colon 20 colon slash 28, followed by an orchid orchid-generated neural algorithm ID, and followed by a 96 96-bit encode hash of a context ID IPv6 nodes can again self-generate and assert these addresses without supporting infrastructure but with fewer random bits, 96 bits that are pseudo random. And it can serve as a node identifier about it also can appear in the global name service And here's an example of what one looks like. Next chart Now, the type 3 MLA is known as the hierarchical host identity tag or drip entity tag, an RFC 3 9374. This begins with the prefix to 2001 colon 30 colon slash 28 followed by a 28-bit hierarchy ID followed by a H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-Eat the prefix 2001-30 colon-colon slash 28, followed by a 28-bit hierarchy ID, followed by a H-HIT suite ID, and followed by a 64-bit orchid hash These kinds of addresses need to be registered with the registration authority before we use them AdHoc nodes can assert register type 3s as unique addresses with an ad hoc network. And these can serve as a note identified and again may also appear in the global name service And some advantages of this type of MLA is that supports attestations with nodes claimed address supports registration address-based authentication And again, here's another example of one. Next chart So what about the old site local prefix, FEC0 colon colon authentication. And again, here's another example of one. Next chart. So what about the old site local prefix, FEC 0-colon slash 10? RC 3879 formally deprecated site-local prefixes Implementation stopped supporting these addresses taken from that block So even today, 20 years after the deprecation input, implicit implementation still remembered that, and some of them just refused to use that address at all So the multilink local addressing scope now replaces the deprecated site local addressing scope. Next chart Assigning MLAs to ad hoc network interfaces as 120 a better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "use an optimistic dad And the nodes inject the MLAs into the ad hoc network routing protocol as host droughts. And this supports ad hoc network local IPV6 multi-hop routing and forwarding Next chart So what about ad hoc networks that connect to the internet? So what if that group is that went to the Northwest Terrier? someone had a Starlink link available with them. You can see that green node down on the lower right has a connection to the global internet So that node can serve as a proxy server to provide interming or continuous internet connectivity for the ad hoc network That node would delegate global unique addresses or unique local addresses by Slack or DHCPV But the ad hoc network nodes would assign those addresses to an overlay multilink network interface, an Omni interface instead of to the ad hoc interface itself And you can see in this example here, we have 2001 deviated address assigned by Node 3 to its Omni interface not to the ad hoc interface. And once we have that kind of an assignment, the ad hoc network traversal text says, the internet services via omnia encapsulation And we use IPv6 address selection rules to choose which address to use for global communications as opposed to management local communications. Next chart So the next thing for this draft, again, it's targeted for six mansions and applies for all ad hoc network types and not just mayonnaise we're looking for supporting comments on the six it's targeted for six-man since applies for all ad hoc network types and not just mayonnaise We're looking for supporting comments on the six-man list. We're also supporting comments on the mayonnaise all ad hoc network types and not just mayonnaise. We're looking for supporting comments on the six-man list, but also supporting comments on the man-a list itself would be helpful too. And then we have two other drafts that are related to this, but the main focus we want to have taken away from this draft is this need for the man-i local addresses, multi-link local addresses and the three candidate types that we have So that's what I have for charts Thank you. Any questions? We have Stewart in the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:06",
    "text": "So thanks, Fred. Obviously, what we've done over in the drip working group with the hierarchical host identity tag was primarily a intended for a different use case, but we always anticipated that it might find other uses and you know, glad to work with you and, you know, support this other use case just want to make sure that each identifier type gets used for the appropriate cases. So, you know, the hierarchical hit is quite different from the, from the hit different from the hit. You know, the hit, you just generate it yourself and nobody else has anything to say about it whereas the hierarchical hit was intended for a case where there is a registration process and, you know, you're hierarchical hit, you can only prove its validity if you have an endorsement from the hierarchy that said you really are, you know, in that branch of the tree a long long time ago I was involved in a in a boff remotely that persisted for several months as a email group and they were looking for a route ID. And I believe it may have been in the MANEMO Baf, but it may have even predated that anyway the idea was they wanted a identifier for a router that was distinct from the IP address, the locator that was a associated with each of its interfaces, because, you know, how do you pick? which interface is the one that you're going to use? to identify the router itself? as opposed to identifying that particular interface? and we felt at that time and like I say, it was a million years ago, that's something that has the properties of a host identity tag was appropriate because it does not imply any kind of topological aggregation And so that's, I think, the key issue to keep an eye on You know, where does topological aggregation matter? And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "where doesn't it? And when are you looking for? a locator and when are you looking for um uh identifier? Yeah, yeah in this case there we have the ad hoc network off in the wilderness with no cell towers We're strictly identifier based at that point, slash 128s And that address can serve as both the router ID and an interface identifier at the same time Okay, Julia I'm ashamed to say I haven't read the draft, but could you perhaps say a few words about why those things are not uLA I'm looking at the properties in slide three or four, and they appear to me to be just ULAs. So the thing about ULA is they have a subnet ID field and that subnet ID field is to provide a common subnet for knows that assigned addresses from the ULA prefix. So if I may interrupt, if that's okay you don't need if you're doing a pure mesh network, you don't need the, you can just consider that all 121 bits are the node identity consider the ULA space as a slash 7 seven, and then you just draw 121 random bits and the Manet protocols are quite able to deal without any explicit prefixes right but it's not obvious to me it all why the MLA space is useful here not that i'm opposed i'm just trying to understand right that that the problem with using uLAs in that way is it conflicts with the use of ULAs that would be more structured as there being a slash 64 prefix with ULAs. And by self-assigning these MLAs that don't use the ULA prefix but use a slash 128 with a well-formed IPV-6 prefix, we don't get into the problem of conflict with structured use coordinated use out of the ULAs that we might get another network. So are you worried about collisions?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "or are you worried about debugging issues? I'm worried about nodes that would think that they're in a ULA subnet when they're not Mm-hmm Okay, thank you. If I might add I think the issue here is you might be using ULAs in the over network, and if you're using if you're using them, if you're using those possibly conflicting ULAs in the radio network, how does the device? know what's what? That's a very good point. And that's kind of the use case I had in mind for the ULAs would be on the overlay But what really matters with an address is what interface you assign the address to. If you assign it to the radio interface, or if you were assign it to the overlay interface, that gives the context for where the address is to be interpreted Thank you, Fred If there's any other comments, please take them to the list And there's, look at the to be interpreted. Thank you, Fred. If there's any other comments, please take them to the list. And there's, there's, you look at the six-man list too All right, the next is the charter discussion I'll hand it over to Ronald Yes, thank you So I put together a proposed charter text or I should say first Donald put together a proposed charter text He posted this to the mailing list in the beginning of June. Unfortunately, there were no reactions There also was no reaction from me because I was otherwise engaged at the time but we discussed and I now did my homework and proposed the text I put every"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "paragraph, so to speak, on a different slide and I will walk you through them The first few should be non-contentions, I would think, but you never know And then we get to some things that might be contentioned or at least deserve some discussion, and I hope that we can start having this discussion in this session and obviously it will have to be continued on the main list. So here we go. Next slide please So this is a bit of introductory test that I remodeled a bit because I think there were lines in there that were created at the start of this working group and I think we silently passed over our 25th anniversary last year so this is just what we're doing standardization for Manet but also maintenance and extension of existing work that we have already done and this includes the routing protocol that was developed in this group, OlosRV2 V2, as well as Babel, because the intention is that as soon we have the new charter in place Babel will be closed down and Babel activities will be continued in the management working group under the new charter Next slide, please By the way, at any point that you feel that there's something you want to react to raise your hand and enter the queue This is a bit of old text that I kept"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "mainly to highlight the point that it doesn't have to be all wireless links, especially Babel is defined to support both wired and wireless infrastructure but I think that also support both wired and wireless infrastructure. But I think that OlosRV2 can handle this too. Next slide, please This is the text that was in the old chart on D-Lab the Denivik link exchange protocol, local protocol between your router and the radios that for the radios for some reason, got named modems I'm sure that christopher allen remember the discussion discussion and the idea is that that the routers can make better routing decisions if they have link correctly routing decisions if they have link characteristic information from these radios or modems At the beginning of the last charter, D-Lab was still work in progress, but since then it has been done and several extensions to D-Lap have been defined So now we're more or less in maintenance mode for D-Lab we have a few more extensions pending there might be some more coming in the future however I cannot think of another 100th DLAP extension It should be far less. So that will Peter out at some point, I think. Next slide, please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "So here is where we hopefully can have some discussion At the last meeting, charles perkins presented AODV again. This has been work that was originally done in this group At some point it was abandoned around 20 been a work that was originally done in this group. At some point it was abandoned around 2016. One of the reasons it was abandoned was because it was holding up the rechartering back then then it progressed life as a AD sponsored draft for a number of years and now the question is do we need to bring it back? Is there energy in the group to work on this? do we want this do we want the reactive protocol at all? Or do we just leave it B? Crystal? janz? christopher janz you were in the queue We lost you, Rick, go ahead then So I think AODVV AODX is Rick, go ahead then. So I think AODVV-AO-D-V-2, AODVX is a fascinating concept I would love to see it make progress I think the working group needs to ask questions about whether it needs a document editor because Charlie is making very slow progress with it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "and I mean he's quite retired now so you know some some fresh blood to help make progress on it would be important because the danger is it may go on to the Charter and then three years time we'll be having a recharter conversation and we haven't made progress so although I would like to see it done I think it needs input us from the working group as a whole to make it happen or it shouldn't be on the charter I tend to agree There's no point on pointing some shouldn't be on the Charter. I tend to agree. There's no point on pointing something on the Charter that nobody wants to work on christopher janz? you there now? Yes, I'm here Sorry, I felt to click the right buttons I was just going to say, in the draft, in the draft, shard, the main advantage of reactor solutions is low protocol overhead I would say potentially low protocol overhead It does depend entirely on the scenario, whether or not it is, with regard to the last comments, yes I haven't looked at the latest, Charlie's latest AODD draft, but certainly when it sort of fell off working group status, there was still two or three significant unanswered questions which would need to be addressed before you could I think you would need to address them before you really adopted it as well working group item because otherwise we'd be back around in the same circles again Yes, Julius? So I'm not going to speak about what we should adopt it. I just would like to object to one sentence in the proposed charter You say the main advantage of reactive solutions is low protocol overhead okay so that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "well, there's a discussion on that. There's a lot of literature in the subject and the results are in conclusion and I don't think that the charter should be making a stand in this discussion So I would suggest simply removing this sentence. It does not belong in the charter. And if you disagree, I suppose we could do something like the claimed advantage of reactive solutions. Very nice enough. I will remove it So I'm, I'm pretty deeply divided here. I have a strong interest in hybrid routing protocols. I don't know if anybody here remembers Zygmat Haas's zone routing protocols, ERP, things like that And Rick and I have had some discussions about casting all of this in a more formal probabilistic frame And there's if you're going to have a hybrid protocol, you need to have first a reactive and a proactive protocol. So I'm in, I'm in favor of keeping you know, reactive in play here within the working group Flipside, confession, I'm completely consumed with the drip work and do not know when I would be able to dedicate any energy to such an endeavor Okay, so you're not making a recommendation either way Okay christopher janz, you're done again I think that the basic RREC I think that the basic REC REP mechanism of AODV"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "is well understood and actually you don't need a fully defined AODV before you could create a hybrid protocol as an extension of OLSRV It's an area that in my previous employ and so there's limited what I can say about it, that we played around with on paper, but not necessarily any further There are one or two problems we encountered never cracked in trying to get to the best of both but I think that the key question as so indicated is effort because without effort you're going nowhere. By the really, I was, yeah Abdul Salam Yes. Well, I just want to say that I'm interested in this work, and I'm willing to give effort with our authors Good way, thank you Next slide, I guess I have is about multicast We also discussed this several times in previous meetings I think well, this is my opinion anyway but I'd least Rick has made statements to the same effect that if you have a homogeneous layer two or layer one technology you can do things to support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "multicast below the IP layer and then there's no real point in trying to do another layer of multicast routing at the IP layer However, this changes if you're using several of these layer two, layer one, technologies in combination or if you're federating different monies with different proprietary technologies and then you need some kind of overlay, if you will, overlay routing protocol to make this work so I'm not sure that we are going to define a standards track process here, but I think we should pursue this a little bit further and maybe do a requirements document or something, Julius so first I strongly support this and if I had infinite free time, I would start working on it straight away. Okay, unfortunately I cannot estimate when I will have infinite free time And to speak about the actual text, I think that the first sentence is too weak. Okay, you're saying that the problem is the amount of churn, but even in a static net text, I think that the first sentence is too weak. Okay, you're saying that the problem is the amount of churn, but even in a static network PIM is not going to work because it uses RPF and RPF doesn't work in mesh. And I, so I'll send you on the list suggested rework I think that here we can be much Yes mesh. And I'll send you on the list suggested rewarding. I think that here we can be much . Yes, text contributions are most welcome"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "Thank you Okay, this is just a blob about coordination with other working groups, which is almost verbatim copied from the current Charter, so that's not so important important So in my work, multicast over heterogene media is critically necessary and if there were at least three of me, then at least one of us would be working on this. There's not Rick So two quick points. The first point, um, echoing the previous comments about I'd love to work on this but we, I think it's important for thus of us who are long-term participants in Menei, we actually need to go out and find some more resources to help burn these cycles, because we understand that these topics are important My second point actually was on the multicast piece. Ronald, I think you touched on something quite elegant there with the hetero to help burn these cycles because we understand that these topics are important. My second point actually was on the multicast piece. Ronald, I think you touched on something quite elegant there with the heterogeneous multi-cast where the homogeneous islands of link layer technology are capable of handling multicast natively, there may be a middle way through this rather than trying to build another multicast overlay network protocol, but actually more of a sort of gatewaying protocol between islands of multicast capable mannays in a sort of beerish way That might be more achievable than starting with sparse mode or dense mode and trying to build something new which seems like a lot of work and quite researching"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Yes I can see that avoiding looping could be an issue, but that's not have that discussion now Next slide, please And this is the last slide Here I enumerated a number of potential work items without claiming completeness So if you have other ideas here let us know know Julius So I'm not sure how you define extensions, but if you're going to put it explicitly in that charter, I would feel more comfortable if whenever you say extensions, you would add ant maintenance just in case somebody tells us that's not an extension sorry can you say again I missed what you said. So every time you say some, you say X extensions, I would say suggest changing it to X extension and maintenance. And maintenance, yeah fair enough okay in case somebody decides to say you cannot work on that because it's not strictly in extension Sure Abdul Salam Yes, Ricardo multi-cast solutions for many it says here, Dr the point says it says that it's based on it heterogeneous wireless technology But what about, let's say,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "if it's not based on heterogeneous wireless technology? we need at least a solution or a standard we agree roni even if it's not heterogeneous. At least we have for many minutes say we need at least a solution or a standard we agree roni even if it's not heterogeneous, at least we have for many multi-cast protocols or as before we're already standard a simple multicast solution but for let's say either if it's proactive or reactive, at least we have a multicast protocol for many but here if we just say based on heterogeneous maybe it's not I think it's not a good start We just say we need now a solution for multicast, and we start with it. But, and also, regarding the other items or even how to cooperate with other working groups I see that it's better that, let's say, usual man it is an old working group but the other groups were restart from maybe cooperating with this group So it's usually a case by case, or let's say, I see some working group, they start with case study or with a topology, and they start working on protocols which is related to our protocols so we can work similarly case by case, let's say if you say, as you said here, let's say multicasts solution based on heterogens, we can say a protocol, such protocol, which is based on such case or such application"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "And then we can have that kind of protocol or the authors or effort on application. And then we can have that kind of protocol of authors or who are effort on that case. They can cooperate with the other working groups. But if we just say generally, now let's say we have OLSR version 2, okay, it's a generally working on many, it can be worked on many cases, but why don't we have some kind of group checking it, how it works on let's say, the satellite case study And we have already a group in IETF working on a satellite protocols. And also we have other cases that say like the R-O-A-L, you know, or the law low-power, so that's another special case for... Sorry to interrupt you, but we're almost out of time okay thank you. So I hear what you're saying can you take this to the list maybe so that we remember all the points that you made? Yeah I won't have time to answer all of these things now, but let's, uh, if you, can send an email, then we will at least have a let's let's if you can send an email then we will at least have all your points on the mailing list So we have less than three minutes left Is there anything you want to say? to wrap up? Well, maybe just if Jim has anything to say we got a couple minutes and then we have to switch rooms. A reminder that where anima is in here right after us so we're gonna clean it clear out pretty quickly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "Don, no, I don't really have any anything more to add other than what I've already stated, which is in all order to re-charter, there needs to be you know, obviously technical work to do, but then you need the bodies to actually do the work. And what I've heard in the session so far is that there are some people that are willing, but pretty much everybody is unable So that's a little discouraging but again, let's just work on the charter to get it to where you think but then we need to make a decision as to whether it but again, let's just work on the charter to get it to where you think, but then we need to make a decision as to whether the recharter is worthwhile if there's literally nobody to work on those items items On the Charlie's work, I mean, I'm not going to recharter a working group to work on a document that only jon peterson is actually working on That there are other avenues for that that Charlie needs to continue to work obviously if there are other people in the working group that are actually going to commit to the work, then that's a different conversation Right. Okay Well, I think that pretty well uh is it we've got enema people coming in the room, and we're going to be clearing out. So thank you very much. If there's anything else, please take it to the list Have a good day. Thank you, Chad you bye bye Thank you"
  }
]
