[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "foreign can you guys hear me yes I can hear you I can hear you okay thank you so we are still um waiting for my co-chair Daniela I think he should be join us very soon so but I think it's time now oh Daniela is coming hi Daniela hello Daniela okay I think Daniel might might have some issue regarding the yes I did but I solved them okay okay that's good so I think it's time now so let's get started okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "so hello everyone welcome to the ITF IV intermitting I think uh it's a virtual meeting and uh good morning good afternoon and good evening for everybody I think it might be a challenging time for some of you guys to participate in our today's meeting but we are glad that you all make it on time so thank you everyone and again I would like to remind everyone that Please be aware that this session is being recorded and for note 12 I I think uh still I would like to remind everyone that uh Please be aware that when you contribute uh you are expected to follow the ITF processes and the IPR policies and if not not familiar with the the the the slide you can take a look at this slide and a couple of documents in the in this slide and for our today's meeting I believe we will have an hour and a half and this online meeting and for the mini attacker we hope we would have some volunteer to help taking the minutes and then you will win a lot of things from the working group and also here it gives a link of our uh this meeting material for today and you can check with that and the working group status here I would like to uh um convert to the working group that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "have created a new IV GitHub Organization for the working group collaboration I think once we have decided the way to go the working group items in car is encouraged to be maintained on the IV GitHub organization and for your collaboration and for the also for the issue tracker and also I think uh once we have decided uh to uh do some work in IV which might be a network inventory related then we should have the weekly call for the delighting discussion in IV working group the discussion should happen in Iris so this is to be done for the chairs to create the IV vehicle for your design team discussion so if you have some favorite slot to discuss then just let us know so that we can send the meeting invitation or you it's okay that if you would like the same slot as the C Camp design team discussion so just let the chairs know and also in the near future there might be one or more intermittings for us to accelerate the working group process and the intention is to not to get the so there is no need to worry about the work being slowed so the here is the slide of our today's agenda I think uh we will present the result of the polling which happened in the past three weeks about the uh where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "forward with the network inventory model and we will have 20 minutes for the discussion and then I think boo will have a presentation about the proposal on inventory Commodore in terms of network inventory and Then followed by Italo about the uh that young data model for the network Hardware inventory and then I think my result will have a presentation about the asset lifecycle management and operations problem statement the chairs think that this work might not be tightly very tightly related related to the uh the current focus of IV now but still it's a very it's a very interesting work to explore so we will have 10 minutes to discuss it and finally we hopefully we will have 30 minutes for the open discussion and the wrap up is there any agenda version for our today's meeting I think if there is no then and here we will present about the result of the poll for the network inventory based model uh so for um I think uh as the working group might I think you should all know that and uh so in the past three weeks we were having a polling on the mailing list which is about how to move forward how to move forward with the network inventory core model and the options include any of the network inventory related drafts that has been presented in the itf-117 meeting at San Francisco"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "and here the we read a poll and with three options for the working group to choose their their favorite one and option one is to adopt the secam hardware Network Hardware inventory draft in IV and involved to become the network inventory based model and option two is to adopt the uh Ops area the network Inventory management Dropped In your I don't know if you I'm having problems hearing you or the problem is on your side can anyone speak up to check if uh the problem is on the chiffon side of mine I think okay because I can I can hear you well let's try to chat with that otherwise I can move forward I just needed to share the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "okay likely I have a backup history yeah [Music] and I will share the screen it says all the slots for the requested media are already taken um I need to stop her presentation [Music] rebook slides share screen and oh you're back yeah I try to Recon connect it seems that I I would dropped okay okay so in order to save time maybe I can continue sharing the slides Sure Shot I'm sharing the agenda Paul for Network inventory yeah yeah that's right yeah so I'm so I I'm trying to uh say that in the last three weeks we were having a poll on the mailing list and there are three options and option one and option two uh regarding to adopt uh the existing drafts in currently uh in other working groups I think is in sea camp and in Ops"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "area working group we would like to ask for the working group preference about adopt them in Ivy and involved to become the network inventory based model and for option three uh in case none of them the working group think that none of them is good enough the chairs might like write a zero zero version including just the table of content and we would like to be covered in each session and which will then be handed over to Apple of others to bring it to the working group adoption and next slide please yes and I I think that we do have a lot of folks have met very excellent comments and Trigger very good discussion on the mailing list we have around 25 people indicated their preference and here we would like to thank you everyone for participating in the uh in the poll however I would say that the result turns out to be very divided and it seems that the working group has a split the preference of different options and we have a fair amount of people support option one and a majority of them I think actually supposed to use the module structure of the first draft as a starting point and then incorporate other additional paths to become the network inventory based model and some folks directly indicated indicate to reuse the valid aspects in the second draft which the chair thing might be a little confusing and close to option three or option 4 which I will explain later and also we have some other viewpoints I think it's from they are from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "authors and contributors of the first draft uh the indicator to use a mod a modular approach which allows us to publish a hardware inventory module first and then with a one or more augmentation module models that cover others which is in the IV status scope your voice is now a pretty long I don't know if you are far from the me Mike uh is it okay now is okay now yep yep okay pretty low okay I will try to be louder I think I'm close to the mic already yeah next slide please and we also have the other half prefers the option three option four and and we have some some folks also invoice their support of both option two and option three and some viewpoints are a differ slightly from what the chairs has proposed I think Alex had met a comment which is about with you to say that I guess this makes me a proponent of option three but with the caveat that this would not need to restart from scratch really an option 4 that says merge for overall structure and common paths which in this case is possible and split the remaining difference so I I think uh let's say it's an option for temporary so do we have a fair amount people with option one while the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "half prefer option three and option four and it seems that in the end it seems that the boundaries among the different options has blurred right there doesn't seem to have so much difference now between option one and option three or four as a result previously for example even we go with option one or two at the starting point we can update it and might still take valid aspects from the other draft that's which is actually a combination of both but I think we might decide whether we want a merged effort or a modular approach so here I would like to emphasize that this is not about any decision making of This chair's presentation I know that we are still having the following up presentation from the authors of the drafts so for this part the chairs try to have the working group identify the divergency among different opinions and hopefully to help steer the working group into agreement and next slide please and also we have some questions derived from the the polling uh it's a under very top wind is the separate evolution of hardware and additional inventory in different drafts is this something the working group wants to pursue I think the the authors will have uh will still have to present this part and this is something the chairs would like the working group to consider and if we decide to go with the option three options file to send more to existing drafts if this is the right way to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "list I already see there there was a proposal on the mailing list Tuesday we pick up when leading wonder and operator from each documents to talk from its drafts to document the merged word together does this make sense to you or if or you have any other suggestions or you can voice and also there is another question I think has already been uh also be touched by the working group showed the equipment room be included in the network inventory based model I think Alex has met some comments and suggestions and the working group should consider this because I think the equipment room is about the location information is in the IV charter school that showed this location information be included in the network inventory based module or it should be included in another separate model next slide please oh yes I I think uh there is still another technical proposal and met by Alex and to say that for example one could start with the second Hardware inventory draft modify it to remove the network Hardware inventory container and splitting the remaining module into for equipment room and network elements both of which will now be top level containers remaining modifications can be met from there and really the uh we would uh and I think the working group don't have to be struggling with the exact option of this choice but just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "consider this proposal whether it's Max sense to you okay okay I think um then you know do you have some some others others into ad here no no so like what one thing that I wanted to add which is I mean which I added a as a bullet point in one of the previous slides is the fact that uh the fact that we were pulling the one draft or the other it it doesn't mean it didn't mean that uh the draft were was ready to be adopted and then uh sent to the HG for publication I mean in both cases we were trying to understand which was uh the draft if any that was a meeting most of our requirements and that was easier to to use as the foundation for for our work so um that that that's why in the end the difference between option one three or four is extremely extremely negligible uh whether we we we we decided to go for option one option three or option four uh the result is a is basically is basically the same another thing is that we we will now listen to the three different presentations from from different uh authors and we will try to answer the questions that we raised here at the end of the session we have uh half an hour for uh for open discussion so ideally a successful meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "is is a meeting that allows us uh answering these uh the the the the three questions that that you see here if if we concluded the meeting with with an answer to this question I think we can be we can be happy and we have uh uh pretty simple decision to to to make to to to progress the work yes if no one has any other questions so we can start with the day presentations yes I think the first presentation is uh would you like to share the slides Daniela I would like me to share for the author probably let me see if it works on my side so apologize for my bad audio before I just config out the reading exact ly just create map uh it should be this one yes yeah you can see it now thank you bow is presenting right yeah thank you uh hello everyone this is for and I'm here to represent uh present this network inventory match model on behalf of the authors so next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "us so the authors actually we also commented on the IV polling that we still believe that our like proposal from this draft has [Music] something as foundation for like hardware and software together inventory so this slide is about what we have discussed with the sea Camp authors on some like merging efforts so at ietf 117 we received some good useful comments such as like that most people don't like uh RC 8345 topology augmentation and removing some non-inventory attributes so after uh revising our model on the September secam inventory weekly call we try to discuss VC Camp author to see whether our cases use cases can be incorporated into c-camp inventory model so we had to in this discussion and actually you can access the discussion where the GitHub link above and we and here I'm thanks everyone who for good discussion from the the contributors and authors of the second inventory of the draft and from the discussion on the discussion we discussed the use cases and the term definition and also the the candidate merging models but from discussion we found that although our revised model and the ccamp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "inventory model looks quite similar but our goals were quite different the second authors it seems actually they prefer a hard-only model at present but we the authors we expect a more generic inventory model with hardware and software together so next slide please so here is a like the model we proposed on the left is the the previous model and from this model we try to remove RFC 8345 dependencies and some unnecessary inventory attributes and on the right it's a new model here in this model we try to like use Network elements same as ccam inventory authors we we try to use Network elements to represent both physical and virtual devices and also the components represents both hardware and software components we use a similar like uh same iitf Hardware definition and also some some attributes from ITF system and but we extend the iitf hardware class with some software class components so that's uh the model we proposed and this model we we proposed we can uh based on the discussion on the last ITF meeting most folks feel that license should be optional not be the core core part of the network inventory so we we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "also agree with that next slide please so it seems that cop quite obvious that that it seems that our model and second inventory model can be merged but actually from like from discussion we feel like it's it it seems not works so uh so we try to see whether we can merge through the augmentation approaches as the most uh most of us feel that the second Hardware inventory can be the base Network inventory model so here we're trying to see whether from this base model can achieve uh what the generic inventory model and let's see from the let's begin with the option two uh I think these two options actually they came from the italos uh 117 presentation so here I I divide it into two types and the option two in Italian's previous suggestion that like separate physical Network element and virtual Network element they have different components list but we can see that this approach has too many duplication nodes and actually in implementation virtual devices actually use same inventory attributes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "as physical devices for better for same your users experience and for as option one this is a difference between the the authors of the two drafts like from the second authors it suggested that the common inventory model can be obtained through simple augmentation uh just based on the hardware only inventory but I don't think this works because if we want to like uh augment uh had a model we cannot change the definition of network element in current uh see can be inventory model the network element actually they defined as a physical device so that's a issue I think we we need to discuss how to resolve this and next slide please uh this slide is still like to give a better comparison so that we can see why I I think that Hardware Network inventory cannot be like be augmented into a general Network inventory actually this will be resulting two inventory model not a common inventory model uh here I I made some more modification to the second inventory model to to to make uh more straightforward comparison the purpose of change actually is to reflect definition consistency"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "uh although ccamp inventory model doesn't like explicit said that Network elements is physical but actually in the the draft it says so so I I made this change that in the second inventory the the Network element is defined as devices installed on one or several chassis so that's a reason I I I I think this is a physical Network inventory so from my perspective I think the like ITF Hardware the component cost has been be restricted to Hardware class so this Hardware model cannot be like be augmented to uh a generic platform model like open config did right it's the open config platform model cannot be like just extended the hardware model to to be uh a hardware and software together model you can see that it changed the type of the component to the union so then to support software and Hardware together and similar so similarly I think because of the network elements defining ccamp is a physical one we cannot like through augmentation that just adding a is virtual uh leave to make the network element can support both physical and virtual so that's a the issue I I said I see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "so next slide piece so from my uh my perspective I think if still the I they want a core Network inventory model that it's about uh like the devices and also uh Hardware software uh licenses for devices can be physical or virtual then we still need a merged draft in that way we can have a consistent terms for the network inventory and also the network element whether the network element represent a physical device or virtual device and also in that word draft can provide extension guide guidance on on other inventory items like whether the size or racks at the location is also Network inventory so next slide please this is a separate uh one that I think also related with inventory because uh I see that in secam inventory model there is a inventory topology model it's a hardware inventory topology model so I I I suggest we can define a separate ITF inventory topology module that this module can just be designed to like to to fulfill the mapping and correct correlation purpose for example for sap the attribute such as Port inventory reference and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "interface name and to associate like the port location capacity of the port and a node can also be used to define cluster device and this model can also support some logical inventory such as some some routine protocols or some policies so this is another thing next slide please so here's uh something we proposed to the working group I think this uh our proposal is quite relevant with the chairs questions so uh we don't have like strong preference that whether like uh have a hardware only model or like software and Hardware together uh but we still think hardware and software uh within a generic model is our presentation by the way don't like we agree I agree with Hardware only because I discuss with the authors and I agree that requirements is it there so so I I I I can say there's some requirements for the hardware only but uh still I I see that networking management model is also a way to go but it's not based on Hardware inventory but a separate module that need to be defined and option two is that we Define a common core Network management model that's something uh we we can discuss after the the three presentations and here I give a link to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "the like proposed the the core Network inventory module and this has been discussing zika Moser so you can have a reference uh use this reference here and another proposal is that we can define a separate draft of network inventory model for mapping and correlation requirements so thanks everyone this is the end of my presentation there are some questions so what I really like the idea of having a separate draft for uh the mapping and the correlation of inventory and topology this is uh this is absolutely one of uh the items in our in our Charter but I think is a good candidate for a separate draft to be to to for us to work at the second stage regarding the core Network model the two options uh probably it would be good to discuss about that after release and uh uh to retailers proposal I guess okay which I pull up immediately thanks thanks a lot boo hi everybody can you hear me yes perfect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "okay how we think we can use the draft the second draft as a starting point for the base inventory model and the two more to ever as this Castle de middle is some modular approach towards modularizing the the the the resolution next slide please okay some paraphrasing of the question that has been raised by the by the chairs is about whether uh the split between other and soft other rolling another plus after use cases is something you want to pursue and whether it makes sense to start focusing on hardware and then software as an addition on top of it and the second question was about the point touched by the human room whether they are connected and whether they should be part of the core model or addresses on top next slider our answers okay next slide okay oh yeah on the on the first question the answer is yes sir and for the splitting between other and software is not a trivial and that's why we have some slizer we try to go into more details about how this could be done for the connection between a camera room and inventory we think they are connected but for the second question core model versus additional model uh it's a bit complex answer so we will go with some more detailed answers in the next slides okay then when we look at try and try to combine hardware and software I think Hub also showed there are many ways for example we can have a physical and virtual Network elements in the same list or in a different list we can have hardware and software components in the same list or in different lists and if you want to be extreme you can also have the inventory of the licensee can be in a separate list or in the same list as the address of the components in these slides we made assumption that we follow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "the approach in the wzwb draft so we try to see whether we can modularize even if there we want to have a physical investment requirements in the same list address of the components in the same list and they seem everybody agrees on having uh the licenses as a separating list these are the Assumption in these slides and we need maybe to get confirmation that is the direction the working group also go versus other options next slider by the way these are the the most complex assumptions so so if some of these assumptions is not validated the the modularization will be easier so if you want to split between other software and licensee what we can do we can start with the base inventory model uh that covers only the other use cases based on what we have in the second rafter uh there was a clear indication that if the the the top level container needs to be renamed as Network inventory to have a broader scope than just hardware and what we need to do is to make the list of components more generic so the definition of the component list should be more generalized that it will it will be able to cope with the software components and not only with other components even use of the components are not defined in this document and then we can have a separated document which is a separate module sorry which is based on the software which is adding software inventory on top of it then which can be used together with a base inventory when we have our use cases to support other parts of the use cases and this model can be um follow the approach on the wjwb and then we can Define the attributes and in the entities that are needed for software inventory and then another augmentation for the license system and also licenses proposed in wcwb so we can have we can take we can cherry picking from that list how to do licenses and then we separate modules"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "people can address different type of use cases are there early other plus software other licensee or other plus software plus licenses next slide please it's just a matter okay uh the the okay in order to make the um the definition of the component list the more generic we can for example adopt the approach to define the class no more as a hardware type other identity Union so as proposing it out WWB the attributes as we said as was said are more or less the same so we can take as the basis what we have in a draft in the second draft the list of network elements will be part of the of the core of the base inventory model uh for the for the overarching network inventory container I have another slide so we can discuss later on next line and the software inventory can be just an augmentation in a different module what what you need to augment for example is an attribute that indicates a network element is virtual rather than physical and you may have a new uh identities to represent the software components because and then we can have also our augmentation on the choice of component class where you can describe all the attributes which are specific for different uh software component types that will means that if you implement a Target software you have to implement the two modules next slide and the same for the licenses the license will be augmented under the top container Network inventory this means that if you don't support license you don't implement this model and you can combine this model only with other or we bought ardony software and the the attributes can be taken from we have already the the wjwb draft is proposing some as a starting point we can use that one next one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "okay for the for the human room okay we also in the second discussion that we we discovered that the Kimber rooms is a little bit too restrictive so the proposal here is to generalize the concept of the of the human rooms and they find a more genetic concept like site the akime room is just a type of site and by uh but we can in future Define a new type of site by extending uh the the type we may we are also thinking that size can be recursive for example a campus is a site which contains buildings and a building can be another type of site which contains gimbers and so on and this list of sites based on the discussion and the proposal from Alice it seems a common agreement that it will be good to have in a separating module because also in this case we in discover there are some cases where people where there are there is a requirement to report the site in some cases where reporting the size is not required having a separate modules will allow the modularity to support or not the reporting or the sites on the use Case by use cases basis and you can combine this with only Hardware with Hardware software really Sciences is a very flexible combination and we propose it to keep the common root container rather than putting a licensing Network elements and and the camera rooms and sites as a stop level container the for there was no strong opinion when we discussed Fitness last week in the informal call but actually there is a slight Advantage if you have a common container if you want to retrieve all the information in your network you can you just do a single rest conf get operation on the top level container and get everything in one operation rather than in three different operations so next slide okay this will be how the augmentation for the metric for the electro Academy location can look like you have a list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "of sites and okay the common attributes for the size will be on this side and then you have a site class for which we can at this moment time we have defined only the key room and what is specific to the camera room will now go under the human room specific information that like the list of racks and the list of shelves which is a camera technology size specific next slide and so basically the the the this is graphical representation uh from the two models that we have a cap Network inventory and an event that we have today on the table we can split into four models one network inventory base model which three augmentation one for network communication one for networking licenses and one for software uh inventory and we can piggyback you can cherry pick from the two models in particular on the core model we can look at the as a Next Step uh article by artificiency if there is some attributes that we can copy from the WWB draft internet documentary next slide okay now Ivy proposed the four four modules for getting the the fifth module that was about the the association with inventory we the question is how many documents uh we can have two documents and one for the base model and any location or another draft for the staff and the second document for software license inventory or can go with four documents so we can be very moderating one draft for each module which becomes maybe five documents if you consider also the topology in navigation to work apology and the idea is not one draft because one draft we are we are mixing items which are more mature with item which are less mature it doesn't look uh um an effective time effective way to organize the documentation next one and the next step is basically two up to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "to once we agreed how many drafts and which content and how to modify we can do the update and I don't see any reason why we cannot adopt all the drafts how many do the video side together as a working group documents and then after we have this as a starting point one important characteristic to make sure that the modernization works is to have edited review of every single attribute in the network element list identifies there are articles which apply only to physical Network elements attributes which applies only to Virtual Network elements and that you will supply to both physical and virtual Network elements and I think this is something to do on um attribute by attribute case and the last one is to do exactly the same for the address of the components as we have said we want to have a common list we have to make sure that we know what attribute supplier is to Hardware components what applies only to software what applies to both hardware and software components okay that's all okay so before we jump into the questions I I wanted this so you were proposing these are the four which are the four modules that you are uh the green the one in the right one yes the blue one are the current one Okay so basically it it would be a sort of split that's I I don't these are six modules this is what I don't get it from oh okay the one on the left are the two existing one yes the one on the left the blue one are the existing one the green one are the new proposed modules yes which is Network inventory licenses Network Elemental location and software inventory okay uh we had people in the cube Marisol is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "the first one please the nursery which name did he say yours perfect thank you for the presentation I have one commander and I will reiterate in my presentation as well but uh I understood on the purpose of the ID working group it was to take basic modules for covering inventory and um that's why as well we have been a bit with dmlmo we have been out of the discussions but if my feedback on on this proposal if we consider licensing as part of another and I I believe it should be another basic another module right not basically but another question there's another module because we have use cases where we don't have licenses there's places where we have licenses right that's why having a modular approach means you can use it for this as we propose since day one on the mlmo it should be good to have the learning from our model right and we we propose a a module specifically for licenses that way the way we are not with the feedback of the Opera working group we are not calling licenses anymore we are call it entitlement yes to cover as well the the open source discussions that were putting in place there but uh I I would like uh you know if we consider at all licenses for the first approach of the ivy working group to include uh the reference from the dmlmo we have active okay uh yeah okay sorry okay if there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "something in the LMO that we I think we need to consider that I fully agree yeah I mean in that case the the that the draft would be for sure the best starting point for their licenses uh module the licenses work next one Alex I have two quick comments or a lot of questions uh first question concerns um the location information I'm wondering actually so I I yeah I'm completely as you know I'm completely for for separating it so I think this is good but I'm wondering actually um why would we still be augmenting Network inventory I think actually the location is something that can be kept separate I mean of course you want to cross-reference uh you want them to be able to to cross reference but I don't I don't see any reason why your location should be included in an inventory maybe there's a design detail but I think I I just want to um yeah bring this up here and ask for that on on the record and um and so that's so that's my first my first common question the second one concerns um actually the the top level container and I think it's it it's good to rename it to the the field of inventory is a lot more uh General and so forth however I my question is actually why not go a step further and get rid of the container and tear entirely I'm not sure if it is actually needed I think we can do without it again maybe design detail but I just wanted to bring this up here and and hear your your reaction well yes if you get rid of the of the top level container I think the first answer the first question is become the answer because the network element location will be a top level container"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "by himself so yeah I think uh the the reason why I I where is Live preference for the top level container is really the fact that with the top level container you cannot drive everything in a single operation rather because if you look at the oh if you implement everything you will have a three top level containers you will have the network elements the natural camera location and the licenses and if you want to retrieve everything you need to do three three Gat operation with the top level container you can do that with only one get operation that's that's but and other than that I don't see any major difference between having or not having a top level container myself okay all right maybe further discussion yeah I have some yeah there's some some yeah so that's the pro so so thank you I think there are also some cons but all right okay um [Music] sorry Alex I just wanted to make a comment if we go for the top level container that the name is a super generic it's a network inventory we need to be super careful to clear this data what's in scope and what is not because if you read the ITF Network inventory you might think that it includes a software licenses locations Etc so we need to be super careful in uh and super precise in defining what it what's what's in it and what is not sorry one question here sorry one question actually on this one also is so yeah so clearly so if the only use case is Network inventory then okay fine and maybe but I'm always concerned with basically expanding on the instance name because every instance now gets this gets uh needs to have this this prefix at least in the XML rendering um the other thing is there are maybe other use cases which are which want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "use this inventory model but which are not inventory per se so for instance when we talk about Network digital twin right that would be able to operate on that as well but that would be yeah I'm not sure if we would say the digital twin works on an inventory because it would need things like s attacks for instance but I do think actually would be in scope in terms of the use cases being addressed here anyway maybe maybe further discussion on this but I just wanted to mention this here thank you thank you Alex uh Italo do you want to reply every move to the next question uh I think we can I think it's a detailer I think we can also change later on if you think we don't need a top level container uh yeah okay Bo you're next yes uh hello thinking the the base iatf Network inventory is still is a hardware only one in the content yes but the the the definition will be generalized such that other type of components are the type of network elements can be supported by extensions so you mean the network element definition will be changed yes yes definitely yes but how can you see that that is a I mean how can you still call that a hardware only in that way because you you you you your augmented into a software Network inventory in that way like if the base in network element already can support physical device and virtual devices so rather there you don't need to augment right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "yes but you don't know whether you need additional information for the virtual Network elements that's why I'm saying and so so you know for example if you have a network inventor without the software Network inventory that have only all the devices are physical if you have both Network and software then you know that you have a mix of virtual and physical devices and then you know you will you will need to have an attribute that distinguishes the amount that you I I still don't agree with you on this definition because I I don't think like using a simple augmentation will like change the network element definition that's not I I mean you divide it into four Parts but the I I don't still don't think the software Network inventory is the right way to go why because you see you only you you just said that Network inventory is already a generic one the network element can be a a physical one and a virtual one in that way it's already there so how can you augment it but but let's let's look at at a case why okay Network element where they find 20 years ago were physical Network elements were only physical and people invented a virtual Network element to do the same so I I don't I don't from I don't see from the the use case part I just see from the like the model design the modeling you can see the slide it's an attribute that says the network element is virtual which and I think if other we can also have a type and then we can say okay this is the there are different type of network element and we can export we can find the physical and then you can have a different type of network elements of the network inventory I mean there is always a way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "to extend otherwise it means that we cannot do anything until we Define all the types I mean putting everything together is is a way not to publish anything because there is always something new to be added as I always continue to be added flexible you can always add so so why do we need to to understand the requirements uh and and and and complete the work before doing the first step I don't understand probably one thing that would would help would be to Define what is a software it is just a virtual node or it includes also something else and because if it's just a virtual node it's probably one type uh uh or or or or or better one type of node if it's something more maybe you need something something different but let's let's move on with the with the queue we still have uh uh uh Olga and Rob uh hi thanks everybody I have two comments uh and one related both are related to the some parts of the discussions that we already had the first one is about the the top level component that if you are talking about a virtual Network functions versus physical Network functions I do believe having some kind of uh Common Core model there that incorporates the two that could be added through augmentation is better than starting from physical only because these are the kind of two different things especially if you think in terms of how you are presenting them and you know how they're related they could exist one beside the other and in some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "cases you may want even to abstract them so you don't care whether they're with virtual or physical if we are talking about software again and and they agree with them well in terms of software versus virtual Network function there may be need for augmentation there but that doesn't mean that the top level one is just uh physical it could be physical or virtual next comment is similar to Alex's about the location you know having location augmenting physical inventory I would say I'm not saying that it's not the the best way I think we need more discussions how to model the locations in terms of how it relates to Paul topology how we will kind of connect to the digital map and how will it will be used in digital so by augmenting sorry to tell you is to amend the network inventory yeah and and that is not augmented physical I mean it's but you were saying that your proposal is to have a focus on the hardware uh physical entertainment and Hardware but the definition will be General I mean it's like a it's like a type you know you have a type and then you say okay you have any derived for example you can say the network element is physical then I know all the details other other identities can be added in the future and then when you have a new a new type of network element is just a matter of defining a new a new identity and then we are going from specific and augmenting you are not going generic like other standards would go you are going from mentosi perspective which is uh older than the kind of seed perspective or Etsy perspective or an F perspective that is talking about generic things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "like resources and then they could either be physical or logical or virtual you know so you are going from if you say that the top level is physical then it is specific the top level is Network inventory and can contain physical and logical elements but and there is this physical you are not augmenting it with physical i o you are just augmenting it with so you suggest to have a fourth a fifth model with the other specific augmentations rather than putting there so maybe maybe I didn't understand and it's also based on both comment like you know I is proposing that the top level one includes both physical and virtual or are you proposing to augment physical with uh virtual and software I understood it was the lottery Italo yes yes yes but yeah okay well the idea was not to have another augmentation since Hardware is always acquired but if if you think it's more modular to have an argumentation we can also go with another augmentation I think yeah yeah do we have requirements where we want to manage inventor without Hardware components and afterwards with only virtual Network elements the question is also if from ITF Network inventory you remove Elemental location um licenses software devices Hardware devices what is left to there there will be the list of network elements and the list of components and but no no no type I mean there will be just a basic entity for the type of network element for the type of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "component and then you can have the other inventory where you define the hardware components and eventually other specific augmentations and there will be the softening language refinance software components yeah well you have something which is not implementable as a loan exactly yeah but if people want to do so so so so fine grain I personally don't have so much so much opposition and just that the discussion I had was was that the other is always present okay so let's let's move to to Robert Robert please uh so just because a contributor I'll try and keep my comments very quick because I'm conscious of time moving uh forward I think for me one thing that I'm hearing these discussion is there's some confusion about terminology in terms of uh what does physical versus Hardware mean does that include virtual devices and things and also what is meant by software again does that political devices I think it'd be useful if we build a list of terminology and make sure we'll talk about the same thing I'm saying um items so that'd be helpful in terms of discussion um the other aspect of this I think is interesting is you look at the open conflict model which I appreciate it's a device level model not a network level model they have a lot of flexibility as to how components are put together and how you sort of have components of sub-components both at the hardware level you can you can do it down to uh like the list the RPS and the line cards under a network device but the same at the software level you can also list those software packages and sub packages and things as well so in that model suddenly they allow some flexibility to allow these components to be delivered each other I can't imagine why you'd have Hardware under software in that case in terms of like software packages so so I think that's worth thinking and also the other thing generally I think it's worth thinking about is how much flexibility do we have with these models in terms of how these things are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "um how fixed they are in this structure which may sort of limit how they're used uh finally in terms of uh how we sort of structure these models I personally like to see a very simple base model in a draft because I think that's easy to Define uh maybe covers some terminology and things like that and then I would like to see the other models being defined in separate drafts and either augmenting or potentially sitting in separate top level trees as appropriate sure fine uh working group contributors so I I think I can understand the requirements that uh for the hardware owning use cases from the operator's perspective but I I'm thinking that have you uh ever considered the uh filter magnesium like the top XPath or subtree filter that used to get the hardware only data instead of uh instead of moduleing the software and Hardware separately you can still model them together by use some filter mechanism to fill out the hardware only that I think that might be okay for the hardware only cases thank you I would say that the technically it works but um I I would say that we are more ready we are at the more advanced stage if we tackle just the the hardware part first and then we go the documentation later from a technical point of view I agree with you I don't see any big difference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "but I mean given that from another point of view we already have a lot of good material and we are in uh let me say in a good position probably just from a practical point of view keeping the two things separated would allow us having the network inventory part uh ready quicker this is just a my thought Tony please is your turn I guess you're speaking because I see you are not muted but we can't hear you hello now it works sorry miraka takes a long time to get turned on let me turn on the mic um I don't understand why um so Tony Lee Juniper Networks I'd like to bring up a new topic um I'm interested in doing power management of hardware and it seems like this uh something that could be easily augmented into the models that you're building um how should I go about doing this I think you can easily create a new module that augments uh the base I agree we are augmentation applies to both hardware and software blah blah blah but yes that depends on this is also in liner with the discussion that Alex and I had a while back on the billion list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "basically for for the green networking part there is a portion of it which is basically what you can read on on the data sheets which can easily be added as an augmentation to the network inventory the the top the top material here would you agree there's a lot of stuff that we want to do that's actually Dynamic being able to read power util active power utilization would be helpful and then also being able to power things on and off would be helpful [Music] well things are like actual power consumption I'm not sure that's that's inventory inventory again the very first thing that we needed to do is uh is some some terminology and scoping on what is inventory what is not we came into a some sort of agreement on the mailing list if I'm not mistaken that eventually is what you can read the on on a data sheet but I mean that was just at the very early stages of our discussion that can be that can be changed but just just to give some some scope to the discussion so we have a 15 minutes left and we have one presentation uh to go so ideally we if it works for you I would go with uh these two comments five minutes if you can squeeze your presentation to five minutes marisola that would be great and then five minutes for wrap up so marisola please perfect I don't see the slides yet um okay yeah so you're in the queue I thought you were the you were the comment oh okay I I just wanted to reply"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "to Tony we have been augmenting our the mlmo to report on Powerman power measurements dynamically as he said it might be good to have a call with him because I think it's really interesting for us as well that makes sense but then it goes outside the scope of licenses yes yes the mlmo needs to be breaking into broken into licenses plus something else and This falls into something else okay fine so I see no one else in the queue I'll stop the sharing and the pull up your slides thank you I I will thank you um thank you Daniel and the working group I would like to be a quick our invention in the name of the authors was to reiterate our um proposal to bring it to um Ivy working group right and um bring Almo as the new draft we presented in from a previous IDF and as well Our intention to move dmlmo which it was a compromising the framework plus the data models to make it only with the data models to be the Malmo as we propose and we will incorporate already the feedback that we got as well after that meeting highlighting the feedback from more as well if you go to next slide okay and you might remember this is like from previous IDF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "meetings and many of the points that has been highlighted already here on the session we have been somehow addressing that's why we believe it will be good to keep as a reference uh the the draft as well from the best practices and if you see on the diagram of the life cycle management we have been looking at a different states and what we could consider part of the discussion that has been here on the inventory the location that's the placement of that Hardware or software it is one of the use cases we are looking for on the uh our premise statement proposal entitlement and we call uh we don't call it Hardware or software as we call it is an asset and we highlighted that an asset it is any hardware or software even a component right and even the association of those components that my bring another asset and with an extent to the concept of a service when there is a kind of a solution built from that Network offering right but our purpose on Almo is basically the the use um since uh we know what we have to um to get into our Network and the next step is how we are going to use it we have to associate the license or an entitlement we have to enable certain features we are using those capabilities uh as part of this life cycle uh that is bringing as well that Dynamic concept that the uh Tony mentioned uh that could be a use case on the power management measurements as well but this is part of the concept from almond uh we are not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "looking at the inventory itself as we can consume and we prove and I want to make another call out to the um appendix be part of the of the draft where we give a practical example and thank you to janlin blood for uh the exercise that we did on the augmentation we can augment adding modules that will add attributes on top of what we could consider a hardware based module or a software-based module or as we were proposing initially an asset based module we can augment adding you know licenses as is this proposing the DML draft if you go to next slide Manila and I just want to highlight the the what is important to consider as part of the work of IB working group and I mentioned about asset right we try to combine the concept of fireworks software uh for even for Hardware also well being virtual or physical and even a service there is an easy extension of the attributes that we want to extend from the basic module and the augmentation on or the consumption of those modules that will be part of a basic inventory it is possible within the the mlmo and some practice that could be taken for a new process I believe that might be part of the outcome of the ivy working group um with the uh reducing the word that we also have done and I mentioned before we don't refer based on the feedback we got"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "in the officer working group we don't reverse refer anymore to license but to entitlement right and we be defined in in our model as well but we believe we have a good base model being an independent module into the the mlmo for entitlement reference um you can go to next slide this is our proposal for our next IDF right in the meeting to work on the coming weeks but we will release a new version of Almo based on the IV working group and a new version for a data model for Almo based on the dmlmo and that already is is theirs but this will be as part of our proposal for the next IDF session we would like to come with the collaboration from the teams as well and this is kind of how we started a couple of years ago ago with the mlmo and the main characteristics that we have been working on since then and hopefully you have the the summary of what we are also trying to achieve for next ideas to present a more solid Proposal with a better description on the use cases as well on the Almo and this is the new version for the data models on Almo for IB working group we will try to collaborate still to the other working groups but making sure that we have a something work through this team as part of the use case that could be derived of the inventory work with that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "um we have complete the presentation let me know if you have any questions I'm good with that thank you thank you so let me uh let me share one slide that you have already seen now and just to share some thoughts with you with you this is not uh uh any any decision is being taken now but if if we assume that we have the the the split into these four uh modules which by the way would be five because the fifth would be the mapping of the inventory against the uh the topology but I mean I think everyone agrees that that is something that can come at a later stage if we use a split like this one probably we can adopt all the all the three drafts and every simple mapping against these modules the the second draft could be used as uh the uh the network inventory starting from the hardware use cases including what is Hardware from the opsa draft the software part of the opsa draft uh remaining in the draft that could be adopted as the software Network inventory the licenses for the licenses part we could adopt"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "the Almo draft I don't know if I mean as Marisol said that there is more than licenses in in Almo uh uh I don't know if that could be split or we change licenses into something that is something more if I currently on the student entitlement is a licenses plus something more for example uh the power consumption thing would fall into uh into entitlements if yes we just call the the this module here ITF entitlements Network inventory and we are done and the probably a new document the fourth the fourth document would be a brand new one at cover and the network element location and the fifth for the mapping against the topology if no one has a big concerns against the split I think that the the the the way is pretty straightforward and we can adopt all the documents and reshuffle the content according to this drawing probably the only thing that remains to be discussed is the the issue that Bo and Italo were discussing before on the top level uh uh module we still have three minutes and any reaction to this proposal and Rob to start with I think then you know we might did not have a very free discussion today because of the limiting of time so do you think it makes sense uh for us to tactic to the mailing list to continue our discussion and I think any uh agreement might should be reached over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "the mailing list and of course of course I just wanted to collect real-time feedbacks to these uh again not not any proposal is is allowed thinking uh being shared with the working group prob sure sure yeah I sort of agree with you I think I think it'd be a good idea to for you to write that proposal down on the list so it's sort of clear what's been proposed here to get reaction I did wonder though whether doing a non my orders gone with a non-indictive show of hands to see what uh people think this is the right direction now might be interesting but it's I have it's like a non-binding vote Maybe yes in the in the meanwhile do we have anyone's anyone else that wants to share so short and stool title um uh I agree with daniela's mapping proposal he we have three four five I promise that the sooner or later I will have a bad idea not this time okay okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "so we have 14 to four five okay uh any one of the six that were against it would like to say something now in any case that we are continuing the discussion on the main list we will articulate we will put down uh uh the proposal and then we we can have a a better discussion there but if someone wants to say why not now probably it it could have please Alex [Music] I I put no I I didn't know exactly I think I agree with the overall uh philosophy but what you're doing here I don't uh I'm not sure I'm bored with some of the details like what I mentioned right the element uh location I still think should be separate it should not be augmenting Network inventory again there are details but I think uh that is missing the thing where I said just as it is depicted here right now um I said we need to have a little further discussion okay well [Music] can you hear me yeah I mean still the this mapping doesn't clear to me because the I don't know what the network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "inventory is and like what the network elementing is because if I can not uh understand what's uh this like this mapping means reason why I still needs more like term clearly precise term definition to make a decision yeah please oh okay so we are past the the end of the meeting uh I think that the next step Fang and I will meet uh we'll uh write down a proposal on uh on how to proceed and we will uh continue from there thanks a lot to everyone for participation under the good comments and uh let's continue the discussion on the mailing list thank you thank you"
  }
]
