[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "okay is everybody settled in so this is the working group chairs forum the the pink half of the working group chairs forum team at the top just realized that I forgot to upload the chair slides so music so we\u0027re going to start with this this is an IETF meeting this is a note well so anything all of the standard rules of the note will apply you all are working group chairs or leadership of some for some form or another so I\u0027m sure you understand the note well the next thing is administrative so the agenda no no no not the education so this is a agenda for the working group chair forum for today is there any agenda bashing okay with that Heather are you ready there you are and then I\u0027m gonna miss you guys but but hey guess what [Applause] do we need to turn the mic and no microphone how\u0027s that okay um you all may have heard that I\u0027m working on changing the RFC format is this a surprise to anybody in this room you\u0027re lyin okay so as a reminder primary goals xml is the under changing underlying format means you don\u0027t edit the document once it\u0027s published it doesn\u0027t mean that the vocabulary doesn\u0027t ever change ever again the outputs will be text PDF a3 which is an archival target and HTML there will be SVG no there won\u0027t be color because color is stinkin hard and non ASCII characters will be allowed all of this has been described in sort of the first rendition of set of requirements documents from like RFC 791 2 7 9 9 8 or something like that we know that what\u0027s in those documents may not survive reality so there will be those documents for all of them um I would love to get those done before the end of the year we\u0027ll see how that goes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "now several moving parts need to align but the RFC production center is working very hard to make sure that they are ready by the end of August of this year to be published v3 documents there\u0027s there\u0027s still a little bit of question well the tools be quite ready and of course the end end process at this point you can submit v3 XML into the data tracker and you know how many of them there are 11 I think that\u0027s right 11 it\u0027s a small number now that said we are also going to be converting v2 to v3 we\u0027re going to be able to do all these things but the you all have to be ready for it the iesg has to be ready for it the RPC has to be ready for it so and and I I still we can get by the end of August we\u0027ll see how it goes expect several months of debugging expect documents to take longer to get published because the RFC editor is going to be spending a lot of quality time staring at this and we expect you all to be spending some quality time staring at the various outputs as well there are a couple of URLs up there one is sort of the just the high-level checklist of what things do we need to do and when do we expect to have them done by for implementing from the RFC editors perspective and another thing and this is though if you get nothing else out of me talking to you today the FAQ XML to RFC v3 HTML go there bookmark it make sure your folks have seen it because it\u0027s going to answer a lot of questions about how do i do or what what does this mean or so on and so forth and that will be a not not to get into any other discussions it will be a living document the way living documents are intended so as we get more questions we will be updating this but that\u0027s that\u0027s probably one of the best resources we\u0027re putting out right now tell people know what to do in that FAQ some of the highlights basics how to create a draft using references because guess what the RSC editor we really care about those references use how to use lists some finer points about C data as special characters and just new and B 3 how do I do the following thing Krista stuff right now the RPC is actively training converting v2 files to be three files asking people for input on that the files are being reviewed by tools developers and by volunteers on the XML to RFC dev list the RPC will be sharing files with authors that they\u0027ve said you know you seem friendly and willing to work with us so please help us review "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "these things they won\u0027t get published as v3 but but help us kick the tires on what the process we think will look like so if you you may hear from sandy and Alice and crew as they they ask for specific help a little more just additional information what are we going to expect in all 48 because when we get to the point where we\u0027re ready to say we are switching over what\u0027s in the off 48 queue as V 2 will be converted to V 3 files the RPC will do that the authors that had perhaps already approved their document you know maybe 2 out of 3 authors have approved it\u0027s not 3 off 48 yet with all the approvals they\u0027re going to asked be asked to review it again and redo their approvals to make sure that we\u0027ve got this right and then as I mentioned where we\u0027re aiming to be ready to get this done by the 28th of August the one other point I threw in here so as I mentioned this is going to mean documents take longer to get published there\u0027s three where we used to be looking at the text format now we\u0027re looking at okay but this the HTML right is the text right is the PDF right is the new XML right so there\u0027s definitely gonna be more work there and because the gods are very unkind cluster 238 it\u0027s going to release about the same time so we are absolutely expecting to miss the service level agreement we are working on getting what does that mean documented working with the LLC board as the consort of the holders of the contract to make sure that the contracts exceptions are discussed and if they are granted that the it\u0027s granted with limits and documented etc and I think that was it for me Heather Jim can you hear me almost kind of you can always try the one closer that\u0027s better do we know yet when we\u0027re going to be able to put v3 documents with things like SVG on the data tracker and actually see them that way that\u0027s a really good question I don\u0027t know this is Marie you said you\u0027re going to be staring at this other parties will be studying this we as raindrip chairs have an opportunity to stare at this as well what would you like us to look for anything in particular I think one of the key things would be looking at the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:06",
    "text": "output is the output what you expect to see there\u0027s there\u0027s new ways to do things like lists and tables do those things look like you would expect them to look other questions comments I\u0027m looking at sandy and Alice in the back did I did I lie at any point am I good okay Benedict so I know in the past you\u0027ve talked about having us try to look at the actual external sources because that\u0027s the authoritative copy yes but then we\u0027re gonna have you the new generated HTML mm-hmm does it make sense to also look at the raw HTML as opposed to loading it up in a browser or other rendering environment if you if you\u0027d like bonus points and gold stars sure but that was never in my head for y\u0027all to have to do at least from my perspective and perhaps it\u0027s a bit naive with the HTML it\u0027s what you see that\u0027s going to be particularly important with that because the it\u0027s the XML that\u0027s it\u0027s like the normative language and being transformed and everything so any other questions for me okay thank you very much I believe the agenda next just put the agenda back up okay I\u0027m buds team was it Melinda or Pete Oh Barry Oh Barry\u0027s gonna go first okay yeah this would be very quick I spoke with y\u0027all IETF 104 try to remember which number is which and I wanted to just give a quick follow-up on that about behavior of behavior in your working groups and our request to you to help us make it better so the message we want to give you is that the the message we want to give the community is that the IETF community as a whole does not accept insulting abusive unprofessional behavior that sort of thing and we expect to be treated respectfully even during strong disagreement we would like you as working group chose to help the iesg get that message to the community and be more alert to that kind of behavior be more quick to react to it and more firm in reacting to it phase it out if it happens on the mailing list start with a private conversation move to a public conversation if that\u0027s necessary but it\u0027s also important to make sure that the community knows that something\u0027s being done and that this behavior is not part of what the community accepts so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:07",
    "text": "we\u0027re behind you we will help you with it we\u0027d like you to be very active in in pushing this down to the community and if needed we are looking at ways to get some resources for techniques to help you and that sort of thing so this isn\u0027t the last word you\u0027re going to hear from the iesg about it but now you\u0027re going to hear some stuff from the Ombuds team so Melinda said that she will what her two cents in as we go along here so I expect many of you are aware that some of the ietf nameless discussion has generated heat in addition to light and some of that heat is a little hot so we\u0027ve been talking for some time about what you all can do to help we the Ombuds team and some folks from the isg had a meeting on Wednesday know Monday Monday Monday at lunch thank you it\u0027s such a long week the other Wednesday with some folks and we\u0027re looking to bring in other resources professional resources to sort of help with this we understand that none of us in leadership and none of you as chairs in general have been hired on the basis of your wonderful and incredible HR management abilities we are all in the same boat we learn as we go some of us have more experience some less but we want to start to give you some ideas some hints about how to go forward and how to manage your groups that will help this along and as you have questions bring them up and you can do that on the working group chairs list you can do that directly to the Ombuds team if it\u0027s touchier you can certainly do that with your AEDs and your ADEs are learning along with you do not feel like you\u0027re cut off in space here as the poor little person who doesn\u0027t know so Barry mentioned this business about on list off list kinds of things there are techniques that you can use that will help this along the main problem that I\u0027ve seen so far is a lot of inconsistency which is people start acting a little rambunctious and it gets let go and then it gets let go a little further and then chair whoever panic sets in oh my god I have to do something about this this has gotten out of hand and then the action start to look arbitrary so you want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "start those conversations as someone is getting a little heated maybe awfulest drop a note say let\u0027s just make sure to keep this in check and one of the nice things you can do is get that person on board with you we want to show other folks in the group especially the new folks that this is not the way to go it would be ever so nice if you a person who did this little offense would post and say you know what I got a little heated there sorry about that let\u0027s try that again without as much rambunctiousness you can do that it\u0027s also very important to do the same kinds of things in your working group sessions we consistently see chairs who sit up at the table and are not paying attention to what\u0027s going on at the mics it\u0027s well they\u0027re having a conversation I\u0027ll let it go until it gets out of control and generally speaking you have a second chair you can whisper to your second chair could you go whisper in that person\u0027s ear maybe next time they get to the mic they should calm it down a bit you need to do active management in the room you need to do active management on the list and it\u0027s hard and like I said we\u0027re gonna try and come up with more ideas tools Pacheco chair of the network coding research group where we had a major problem of violence that was actually directed that the chairs and the participants we tried to take it offline we try to get it off list we try to get it off or persons the problem is the lists are not the only ways that people use to get to us there is also the LinkedIn there\u0027s Facebook there\u0027s all kinds of other ways that this is the person who has the bad behavior may use all kinds of other things I have absolutely to thank the people in the IETF who actually helped us because I wasn\u0027t point there was threats of violence and the Boston Police was involved and I agreed that there is a lot of things that you should do but I think we\u0027re basically nonviolent people and when people start having bad behavior we\u0027ll let it go because we do not want to confront the person and I don\u0027t know if there are ways to do that in our case it really got bad and it\u0027s actually the fun you think that you know when we were in the middle of it which was last year we were told that it was not the first time which I found was amazing because I thought we were so you know out of it but I would say I agree with all with what you said but I think I don\u0027t know how that can be done but sometimes within the group you will not have the resources because we\u0027re involved we know the person in our case we knew the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:11",
    "text": "person from other activities I think I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s a way to have some kind of link in between the groups when you start having someone who is completely out of it but for us we tried everything you said we confronted the person we confronted the person personally we confronted the person via Skype we confronted the person and actually every time it was getting worst so this is my comment I think everything you said I think works well if you think that people are fairly rational right in our case we were dealing with somebody who was completely irrational and and I think this is a excellent point and something that we should all keep in mind there is no time at which it\u0027s too early to escalate okay right that you know the ADEs are there we are we as the Ombuds team are here and they\u0027re escalating to quickly can\u0027t happen right someone someone does something and it gets to us and we say you know what not time to escalate yet no big deal with that but yeah having the ability to have the community certainly asking questions of other chairs on the working group chairs list is fine but that one sounds like and eventually you got to you just had to escalate all the way up and I think no one should be worried about doing that no one should feel like they have to do any of this on their own that\u0027s that that\u0027s the worst possible outcome we do need to act as a community so yeah I don\u0027t want to minimize exactly what you were talking about by saying they\u0027re all these little tools that\u0027s for the general case and we all know that we I mean we have hit multiple of those cases on although physical violence is really rare to be threatened but thankfully but yeah it has to be dealt with quickly jeff has so I want us to share some experience from other mailing list context that I have done moderated other listened various forms within the people that are very hot-headed hungry hot topics and it\u0027s been my experience that when things have started you know heating up past a certain point the feedback cycle of it being semi real-time is what tends to cause things to go a little bit crazy you know everybody that is running a mailing list any of your their chairs have you know log in for a mailman to be able to manage your mail lists have minimally a tool on there that\u0027s called emergency moderation you can click this button and every bit of mail to the list just stops you you can at that point control which ones actually go through and if necessary you can selectively moderate people this is not saying your job is to censor the people but just simply by introducing that delay and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "responses things sometimes can get better on their own Suresh mentioned directly that he did this as a chair with one working group and the effective tool for him was he turned on moderation completely and then went to the individuals and said I\u0027m moderating this do you really want me to post this as is and he said he got a pretty good response of a lot of people saying no that\u0027s okay and this is the thing I mean I think most of the participants are rational and will respond well and some of them will continue to be hot-headed and will need to deal with them in a different way but yeah I moderating the list you are completely empowered to do one of the other things you should note that you are completely empowered to do is during a working group session refuse the mic to someone if someone is getting out of control you can have them sit down and say that\u0027s it you\u0027re not getting up to the mic again and that\u0027s a 24 18 you can refuse them the floor perfectly reasonable if they\u0027re getting out of control Benedick I was also talking to Suresh and just to point out that the caveat to that is that it only stops traffic to the list so if a message is sent to the list and the other person they\u0027re being hot-headed with the individual the single copy still goes to the other individual and it\u0027s just be aware of that you know yes this is a very effective tool but there\u0027s a caveat right and mentioning to the person who got cc\u0027d by the way the it didn\u0027t make it to the list of perhaps responding is not the best plan yeah and this is Barry just pointing out you can also moderate individuals as well as doing the emergency moderation of the whole lists so when Melinda and I were talking we thought this would be sort of freeform do you have any questions of approaches do you want to talk about particular instances name names don\u0027t name names whatever you like but we are being recorded and we are being you know we are being NIDA code and all that stuff one thing I want to highlight is it it\u0027s okay for people to be angry and it\u0027s okay for them to express that anger that doesn\u0027t need to be stopped that\u0027s when they\u0027re abusive and hostile and causing other people to be abusive and hostile because we know that participants do model other participants behavior that there needs to be an intervention so it\u0027s not the anger and I you know I think that a lot of people here are actually capable and do frequently express anger in a very straightforward way and that\u0027s that\u0027s good so one point of clarification Jones cutter um seriously you mentioned that you can refuse somebody to the floor and and not necessarily looking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "for answer to this or anything but I just want to point out that it\u0027s it\u0027s all very well to say that you know we have the formal authority to do that but probably most of us certainly I have encountered more than once the case where some of these filibustering and won\u0027t sit down and you know sometimes it you know turns into a shouting match between the chair and the person who\u0027s filibustering I wonder if it might help to have a mic cut button although you know it\u0027s it\u0027s tempting to always have a technological solution to a human problem so I an earlier conversation reminded me of this you should have come if you are finding contentious meetings right that you\u0027re running contentious meetings you should have the conversation with your ad upfront right you aren\u0027t power to do that but you need absolute unequivocal backup from your ad to pull that off so when you say John sit down you\u0027re done at the mic and the person keeps going and you say it the second time by the third time your ad should be standing up and going this is John\u0027s call he is chairing this meeting you need to sit down now and if that person is you know sufficiently disruptive well yeah well you know there is the point where someone becomes so recalcitrant that outside means need to be taken hopefully we never get there and the meeting venues have security staff but but I mean and and this is again you know to nooria\u0027s point yeah people go over the top and and we have to deal with that with security staff with police with whatever for the most part luckily that\u0027s not gonna be the case and and the comment can be you need to sit down until you know you\u0027re not being abusive anymore and we can talk after the meeting about this or whatever and also try and keep your cool about it because it gets harder and harder the more amped up you get so with respect to moderating specific users understanding making to the emergency moderation thing we have somewhere in the RFC 2007 is on a list did that change recently so what\u0027s the difference between that process and what you just described where you can actually flag I\u0027m gonna moderate that person wondering the whole list is probably something you can get away with in a crisis but if moderating one person we have a process for that to take steps to get to so what\u0027s due no no the the steps for moderating one person what moderating is not a problem at all because that person\u0027s posts are still being made now you want to cut that person off and say you are not posting anymore don\u0027t care what that\u0027s the distinction okay then you have to start the process but that process for the chair to do for 30 days is actually relatively simple oh yeah there\u0027s notifications and that\u0027s it I\u0027m wondering if it\u0027s like I don\u0027t know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:13",
    "text": "appealable that I cut you off because you\u0027re disrupting a conversation and but I didn\u0027t run through that process so not not for the instant moderation I\u0027m gonna put you in the queue and I will look at the post before it goes no okay that\u0027s not a problem Collin Parkins just on the the meeting management side I\u0027ve seen working groups that have post the meeting and taken a 10-minute break carefully so it on the meeting management\u0027s I\u0027ve seen working groups take a pause and take a 10-minute break in the middle to let things come down which is sometimes a good approach alright thank you very much since there\u0027s nobody in the queue we will move on thank you guys so next you will all have seen a question Michele posts the mailing list and she\u0027s going to come and gather some real-time be back on or not now for something much more fun working yes I\u0027m Rochelle cotton I\u0027m with Diana and yes I did post a question to the list we did get a suggestion about having a maybe a short little video directed at a working group chair on helpful hints for how to do something related to your Ana considerations and it got us thinking a little bit more we wanted to open up the discussion to you all and not necessarily get the feedback today but at least get you thinking as you review documents in your working group especially new ones coming in is there any type of resource any type of material maybe it is a short little video maybe it\u0027s something else that would help you either you and your in your position as working group chair or something you can say to one of your authors go watch this go look at this we do have RFC 8126 it is a beast maybe it\u0027s dissecting some of that into some more useful material breaking it down into little pieces one thing that we we do that we\u0027re trying to actually have done earlier in the process is when we get last call announcements that is often the first time we\u0027re looking at documents and in those documents there could be a request for some parameters in an expert review registry and so at that time we initiate the expert review and sometimes it\u0027s a little bit late "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:14",
    "text": "sometimes maybe there\u0027s no expert for that registry and so it takes time to get the expert aside and then get the request to them sometimes the experts can take a little while so we\u0027ve been trying to figure out how we can try to move that a little bit of review earlier into the process if you have any any ideas on that we would love to hear them also many of you deal with requesting early allocation of code points for the most part that\u0027s been working well but if you still have questions about that or there\u0027s something we can do better again we\u0027d like that feedback just looking at my notes here I think that\u0027s mostly at Barry and I are working on an update to 8126 to add in a few things and fix a couple areas in there so if there\u0027s something that you feel like is violently missing from there we would also like to hear that so either in person here or if you want to go back and think about it and as you\u0027re working please send us email or to the working group chairs list where we\u0027re just happy to listen so we can kind of focus our energy on getting something that\u0027s useful for you guys I\u0027m sure that noticeable follow-up was just really made only list which is much as we respect to value the work of Ayana many considerations are often one of the last things the authors get to so what I was going to suggest on the squish cream in here was in the same way that we have templates for for draft write-ups if there are common cases are the common cases Ayana sees where if the authors were just used this text every time I Anna wouldn\u0027t have to spend time parsing Putt Putt parson but the author what the author meant with this interesting choice of words so like templates yeah but templates mean the thinking is look if the author Isaac if lots of runs using a clever with a brand new registry go read 8126 and and stop complaining however they just want to do something routine just out ketta point if you had a template what might you might start seeing the template takes coming back every time and it\u0027s one glance okay I okay the I interview is exactly the author wanted as opposed to oh you left that name in the registry or wait a minute you need to so if you have common cases where you\u0027re wasting time on simple stuff and you provide some templates so the cut and paste cut case fill in the blanks that might have that might speed things up everybody and I should mention that in RFC 8126 there is a link to another document that actually has some template type style information that document is fairly hidden on our website "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:16",
    "text": "because we didn\u0027t have a really great place to put it but it but it in group chairs wiki could be a good home for the relevant content down in the suggestion box this is bad let me ask all of you are how many of you regularly use the working group chairs wiki for something so unfortunately few and that\u0027s yeah please more just one let\u0027s go what David said but what actually happens is the author has 30 minutes to a submission deadline and tries to fill in the INR considerations and typically what they do is they find in RFC that that registers something similar and copy it over right which means they they often propagate bad practices that exist first and what deadlines are you referring to the internet draft submission deadlines and then I never touched again okay we we see the document most often during IETF last call yes and there\u0027s lots of time before that yes so having having just shipped another document DNA considerations coming back from the EAD I think it would be nice to have a few samples I\u0027m not talking about templates samples of any reservations that are good to copy so if a particular registry like media types had a pointer to two registrations that are good to copy okay thank you so so Michelle we talked about this this is Dave waltemeyer we talked about this briefly earlier in the week you know I\u0027m a programmer I think about things and design patterns you know a lot of the IANA registrations you know tend to follow some fairly common you know patterns it might be useful to organize templates and some some guidance around you know developing an Diana registry and to follow certain common patterns you know things like this is a register that\u0027s how you do a registry of registries this is how you do a simple indexed registry you know that that has a name and an index number you know you know things that that are sort of repeating concepts that exist in a lot of a lot of drafts we might even be able to you know take a look at you do it do a brief survey and see where there\u0027s a lot of commonality across you know drafts and try to develop a shortlist of design patterns to focus on first and in in that document that I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:17",
    "text": "mentioned that\u0027s linked from 8126 we do have some of those very frequently used samples you know often there a number column a description column and a reference or some some variation of that so we can look at that more and see how we can present it the other way and incidentally I was looking at 8126 the other day and I couldn\u0027t find that so there you can find the example a there\u0027s a link in there yeah yeah yeah so anything we could do to make that more obvious really helpful yeah great thank you this is Robert sparks I\u0027m going to bring the conversation back to the point that you made about trying to push recognizing that expert review needs to happen impossibly initiating that expert review earlier in the process I wonder if it would be possible to develop a culture in working groups across working groups where there\u0027s an expectation on authors to put in there I in a consideration section even if they are pasting it in at the very last minute before the draft submission an explicit statement about whether or not the registry they\u0027re touching needs expert review so we train them train the individual authors to learn how to know whether or not an expert review needs to happen so that they know how to put this in it\u0027s in and it can you know we can I don\u0027t want to dive too deep in and the mechanics the draft would need to have something where he didn\u0027t end up lying around in the RSC at the end so it could be in in the you know RFC editor please remove this kind of kind of bracket but we just set the expectation that when these drafts come in when they\u0027re you know when when they\u0027re submitted is working group drafts anything anytime it\u0027s touching a registry there is a sentence in there that the author populates saying this requires expert reviewer does not require expert review so definitely a kind of a culture change there on what we expect authors to be doing may think a little bit about whether there\u0027s some type of resource we could provide that working group chairs could point authors to and say hey before you are asking me to do a final review if your document touches any I Anna stuff go look at this or watch this or read this and that would be maybe one of those check marks on there Robert what would be the difference in what happens if the author does that the would learn ahead of time there is a barrier to having my RSC published that that you know he might not otherwise have learned until the thing was in the is G\u0027s hand and he is G member figured it out the chair who might not have been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:18",
    "text": "paying attention might see this line in this thing you know don\u0027t address the mission and say oh well I should cue that up and be watching for the point maybe I can kick this expert review off like right before working group last call or during working group last call or if it looks like it\u0027s something gnarly I can get an early review so that make sure that our groups not going completely into a place we\u0027re going to have to crawl out of layer John Scudder so to the earlier comment that you know stuff gets pasted in 30 minutes before the the deadline and then never touched again if it\u0027s never touched again that means that the document shepard is also kind of calling it in because there\u0027s like a specific thing in the document shepard guidelines that says you know the document shepherd has reviewed the Ayana section and you know thinks that it\u0027s not broken so you know number one i guess you know for us we should probably make sure that our document shepherds are actually reviewing those ino sections i personally when acting as document shepherd have pretty much completely rewritten more than one of those i\u0027m afraid and and i think something you would you know earlier you were talking about trading materials templates where do we link those from etc and it might be productive to stick a link right there in the document shepherd template that says over here is where the templates are just in case you need to rewrite somebody\u0027s i anna section rate i\u0027m also a mini type of viewer there are plenty of terrible examples of what you should submit so please don\u0027t copy those the problem is of course someone writing up a template doesn\u0027t know if what they\u0027re looking at is a bad example things change over time of what we\u0027re prepared to accept the role or not so anything we can do to arrange to encourage authors to approach reviewers early and say designated experts for the other des in the room first can you identify that who a reviewer should be and secondly what you please take an early look at this because if I can avoid a round trip with you because all round trips sometimes take a while you should try to avoid those so yeah I definitely encourage that anything we can do to smooth that process out we get a lot at a crap and the might and then mind types reviewers and we have to do two or three round trips we know to add on what Marie said we also offer early review at any point in time too you don\u0027t have to wait till last call to review a document so if as working your chairs you see a document and you\u0027re like oh my gosh this section is absolutely awful and you know you can also tell them hey go contact Diana and and they\u0027re gonna help you to improve your section one thing I do notice at IETF meetings is that we are getting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:19",
    "text": "more authors coming to us at the table to say this is what I want to do how do I do it and when their document goes through there\u0027s a lot less pain because they\u0027ve already done it the right way from the very beginning so you can always tell them to contact us early and we can help too Brian Rosen - two things by far the most common I an action is added add a value to a registry we could automate that right you know what the shape of the registry is so you know what the values are so you could put up we could put something in XML RFC which is an add a value function that you know pull down what registry you\u0027re doing and you know fill it all in all right so so so so clearly there are registers for which that wouldn\u0027t work but the night 90% would help a lot I I will I will spend time with you on that because I I\u0027ve done this not in isolation that\u0027s right on on expert review possibly what we need is a small amount more formalism maybe an expert ends with some token just the URI is good enough on a tool and that token can be included in the draft which is I Anna\u0027s indication that expert review has already been done where we\u0027re working on that barber start so while we\u0027re on the topic of expert review but coming at it from the other side of things you know you and I have traded emails where I actually try and come from broadband forum and try to get I ana stuff and it\u0027s takes forever you know fortunately I know that it\u0027s going to take forever so I start several months in advance so when it takes a month and a half to finally get an expert review but I\u0027m wondering him has there been any progress on what all has to trigger an expert review because we discussed you know if I just want to change the URL that my registered item is pointing to if it says this is you know this registry requires expert review then changing the URL requires expert review and if that expert is going to take four weeks to take a look at that new URL then it\u0027s four weeks to change a URL and I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s been any progress on trying to maybe get when people say we\u0027re creating a new registry and it requires expert review can there be some limiting of you know maybe these things if they\u0027re changed don\u0027t require expert review or things like that I think that\u0027s perfectly acceptable acceptable to put in as instructions to the expert i I don\u0027t see we don\u0027t see any problem with that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:19",
    "text": "I don\u0027t don\u0027t think the ice G would either so yeah I mean it\u0027s definitely something to think about when creating new registries and what registration procedures to use that\u0027s really of course up to you all and your working groups of what you want to choose unfortunately with the requests that you\u0027ve experienced we we\u0027ve the issue with getting fast response rates and we\u0027re continuing to work through it and we\u0027ve had actually some additional meetings to try to see if we can improve the template to ask the right questions so we\u0027re constantly trying to think about how we can make things easier better improve the doc that improve the information when we originally get it so there\u0027s less back-and-forth with experts it\u0027s it\u0027s something we constantly want to know what we can do to make it better and in time because we have a couple more things there any feedback you guys have you can send it directly to me you can send it to our Jana at Ayana org or on the working group chairs list if you want to start a discussion on anything come visit us at the table we love to get feedback we\u0027re trying to find some common themes from the working group chairs to I mean help your lives pretty much which ultimately will help us thank you for the feedback we really do appreciate it thanks Michele all right meeting minute tools so I\u0027d really had just one question which I\u0027ll ask at the end but I wanted to see the question with some discussion around meeting minutes and talk about well maybe some of the reasons why we have meeting minutes and after I\u0027d put imagine some but I\u0027m sure there are more that you can think of as to why we do take meeting minutes the the how is this a little bit of a problematic part in the sense that we have to find someone willing to take those minutes I know we have etherpad I mean we have the convenience of people converging on a way to collect minutes but our experience has generally shown that it\u0027s at the best at best those minutes come out a little scrappy they\u0027re good they\u0027re good enough for maybe the immediate purpose but really if I want to querent ly understand what actually happened I might have to actually go to some tools and the tools are what idea provides the audio stream the media Co "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:20",
    "text": "recordings and he there was even a suggestion of some apps that have been developed for meeting minutes so maybe we should be using those so by virtue of the fact that oh so some BC peas and this is just a view of me and my co-chair that we tend to land up usually using the minutes that were taken in the minutes as so-called temporary minutes you need to have something in place so we take whatever we gather in the meeting and we have had at least one occasion where the audio stream went down and we actually didn\u0027t have a part of the recording so it was good to have some minutes but really at the end of the effort what happens is we go back into and listen to the stream and use some transcribing to to get the output of the and then edit it and make it generally available as the meeting minutes so what\u0027s your the fact that I get to ask the question I is I don\u0027t have to get give you any answers for the question really is it can be replaced taking meeting minutes with the tools that we already have in place and maybe use some of the transcribing and editing capability that might have to be added [Laughter] Perkins I know I I had a little concerning that people often just try and transcribe or what people say in the minutes that the minutes should be recording the decisions rather than just summarizing what everyone says not trying to record what was said or just a data point for the for the plenary we tried to do an automatic transcript a couple of meetings ago we had the the Secretariat generated and take a look at it and their conclusion was that the amount of time it took to correct that automatically generated transcript and turn it into language that could be understood by somebody who hadn\u0027t attended the plenary or watch the video was essentially equivalent to the amount of time it took for them to just take the notes from watching the video so we decided not to do that I think I think there\u0027s some special challenges also because we have you know people like we like sometimes to have no people\u0027s names as you\u0027re taking the minutes attribution we use a lot of acronyms people with very different accents from all around the world and I think some of the tools as good as they\u0027ve gotten still struggle with with those aspects so we found that it was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:20",
    "text": "easier to just have somebody take the minutes so for me I actually find it useful to have it the very least a sequence of who spoke and in what order so then when I bring up the video stream I can kind of find that place in the video stream by comparing it against the minutes and then I can listen to you exactly what they said but you know if there\u0027s a brief summary of kind of the topic of what they\u0027re saying that\u0027s just really helpful to me in finding the place so that I can really hear the discussion which is why I do more than just summarize I mean like at the high level summarize but actually at the person-to-person summarize um yeah I have found in watching some of these ought Auto things that it is really hilarious on what they do and the other thing I wanted to mention is you know we\u0027ve had some times where Power has gone out and things like that and there has been no recording what happened and it\u0027s really useful to have the minute taker in place before that happens [Laughter] yet to follow up that response tech : I I tend to when I take minutes note the point that was being made by the person at the mic as best as I can compress it but I think it\u0027s worth it for folks who are not in the meeting room to read those minutes and see those points just to make sure that things that they wanted to be covered were or not covered and can reply to the list I it would be lovely if we could pull this off but I don\u0027t think we can and end up with something useful in the end decision is nearly worthless if you don\u0027t know the reasons for it and retaking so we have to have that information I originally came up here to express my unhappiness that either paired crashed four times during our morning meeting but really the one thing that may be useful to you if you look at the YouTube recordings there is a well hidden button get transcript so if you have to enjoy the deliriousness you know where to get it you almost took all the wind out of my sails I\u0027ll give you an example suppose all you record is the decisions made and the only decision is made is we made no decision let\u0027s take this back to the list if you don\u0027t have all those points record somewhere you\u0027re just gonna repeat the discussion on the list so okay it\u0027s really important to have at least the summaries Pia was talking about all right so we have four minutes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:20",
    "text": "so let\u0027s talk fast hi Jim Fenton I think one of the things this is pointing out is there\u0027s a lot of uncertainty particularly by the minute takers about the level of granularity that they should include and we need to have some guidelines somewhere and we need to have them somewhere that or maybe I just haven\u0027t found him yet but somewhere that when we ask for volunteer at a meeting they know what level of stuff to write in in the notes because we\u0027re often asking on the fly for a note-taker and somebody says well I\u0027ll help but we don\u0027t tell them what to do and then also if nobody volunteers we say all you have to do is record the actions to lessen the job so we can maybe identify some what we consider a good couple of good sets of minutes and points of these as examples that\u0027s true de volta my thought that just came to me was if there\u0027s a very short set of things that we could recommend to the note takers they might be able to post them in the boilerplate that that comes with either pad when you first load it up okay okay so the last thing besides open mic which we are not going to get to today is next steps for edgy activities we\u0027re going to spend a little bit of time talking about what a Jew activities currently are and what we might do with them I think the really short thing that I want to get to all of you on is we\u0027re still working on getting it fixed on the slides but on the data tracker but edgy team is now an open mailing list and anybody that wants to join the edgy team is welcome to do so and over the course of the next three or four months we\u0027ll be we\u0027re basically going to keep what we\u0027re doing for the next three to four months and then in that timeframe we\u0027re gonna think about what do we really need from an edgy team and how we really want to construct it and I\u0027d really encourage you all a lot of the things we talked about today it would be great if we had a little bit better materials for the working group chairs and you know there might be an opportunity to have some professional and developed resources what would those resources need to be so I think there\u0027s a lot of work that needs to be done and I would strongly encourage people that are interested in this space to join the edgy team and not as you discuss as you team and we\u0027ll get all that fixed eventually so with that it\u0027s 11 it\u0027s 114 so I think we\u0027re going to skip the open mic and take all of that to the mailing list thank you all [Applause] "
  }
]