[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "Oh things will slow down they tell me okay 2:6 man this is the first of two six-man sessions today and we will have a break so you can go to Internet area in between and I hope you appreciate we arrange for a room with that\u0027s not freezing so who knows it may get too hot but we\u0027ll see okay next yes there we go and I hope you appreciate all these slide here so here\u0027s the the note well I\u0027m sure you all have had this tattooed on your arm already so we will all do this we have a jabber room there is meet echo etherpad Barbara is taking minutes and hang trooping is the jabber scribe thank you very much we really appreciate that we try really hard to get people lined up to do it before the meeting starts there\u0027s all the presentations are uploaded and the blue sheets are being circulated so for today\u0027s agenda we have three working group drafts to discuss our working group eight items the fragmentation and RC 8200 the path MTU hop-by-hop option the Oh a.m. segment routing draft and then we have three individual drafts active individual drafts being discussed and then if we have time we have two new individual drafts these may if we run over these will get moved to the second session at the end and then in the second session we have two drafts relating to header insertion and what we\u0027re would like to do for that we\u0027ll talk about this at that beginning of the session but have both of the speakers do their presentations if people should ask clarifying questions and then we\u0027re going to try to have a discussion where both speakers are in the front of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "room they don\u0027t this the first time they\u0027re hearing this too so so we\u0027re hoping that will be a good people can ask questions and they can both answers they are interrelated okay right so they were back on to document status we have not published any RFC since the last meeting we have finally gotten the segment routing document into the RFC editor queue so that you\u0027ll probably get a number very soon I\u0027m sure there are other SR documents in the pipeline so you know you might not clap ourselves on the back too early all right yes the IANA allocation for that document is done so so yes run out and implement the ICMP error document is submitted to the isg the ITF sorry their prep 64 you know not six for prefixes in reach or advertisements that\u0027s in ITF last call we have run through a few reviews on the privacy extensions for for slack document that is not only agenda for today but I expect we will work in group last call that very soon after this meeting the minimum path name to you hope I hope option document is on the agenda so it\u0027s do I am document for four segments routing so we\u0027ll talk about those afterwards yeah so that\u0027s the document status any comments on those then I just wanted to remind you that the document process has changed here\u0027s the links to the you know both the format FAQ and the XML to RFC tool updates new vocabulary there\u0027s a neat tool to use to convert from v2 to v3 so I think you know from now on we expect documents to be v3 coming out to this working group I also feel free to use the github we have so we can do pull requests for changes and don\u0027t have to discuss you know a small editorial changes you know on the mailing list it\u0027s it\u0027s a bit more efficient to use modern tool for that that\u0027s up to people what I want to use okay so I think that was it I think give Bob you are up here\u0027s the clicker please stand in the pink box great thank you now you just saw all the slides I can stop so this is the next step in the the errata the fragmentation errata that was reported against RC 8200 just to background slides he\u0027s the same as last time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "8200 included a number of updates in for RFC\u0027s this required extensive changes to the fragmentation text in section 4.5 and subsequent to 8200 being published a number of errata were filed the general problem is that the fragment offset to find is said it was pointing to fragmental part where it should have been pointing to extension and upper layer layer headers text needs to change in four places the figures and the proposals in the errata proposed other changes as we have talked about as we have talked about figured out a I think a better way to address these errata than what was proposed in the errata and then there was also 5173 and with what we\u0027re proposing to do this is sort of not even an issue because this figure changes in a way that this doesn\u0027t isn\u0027t relevant anymore so the weave at the last ITF we proposed the new text it\u0027s was discussed this has been discussed on the mailing list and I think there was I take there was general agreement on the changes with one edition changing subsection 4 from the first fragment to the remainder of the first fragment you\u0027ll see this in a minute in context so I think we\u0027re in good shape so I\u0027m going to do two things here so this is you know the HTML diff so you can see on the left is the old and the right it\u0027s a I think it\u0027s a little hard to follow because like in this one there\u0027s a paragraph that looks like it\u0027s deleted but it\u0027s actually moved later where it makes more sense so I\u0027m going to go through these very well you can see them and they\u0027re online very quickly or you can run your own whoops and you know there\u0027s a lot of changes to the figures there\u0027s a few this is where the that paragraph gets inserted and then you can see the other number for change the remainder or the first fragment and then some other changes the figures so it it\u0027s not a lot of changes but they are important so what I did was create my own diff for the presentation it\u0027s a lot of slides but I think it\u0027s a clearer way to see what the changes are and also to see what\u0027s not changing so many of these are look just like this where there is no change the next one or this one there we go so this this is the change to this figure where we\u0027re instead of showing extension "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:07",
    "text": "and upper layer headers in the in the examples it\u0027s now just talked about in the text and the text says as it always did the first fragment includes the the extensions at upper layer headers so as opposed to trying to do it in the figures and I think this makes this much clearer and then there\u0027s that you can see the paragraph that\u0027s getting moved later and then this this paragraph is rewritten I think I did this correctly and then there\u0027s another figure change the same sort of thing not putting extension and upper layer headers in the in the figure just you know they\u0027re just part of the first fragment and same here and and this is where the that other paragraph goes where it makes a lot of sense because it\u0027s the paragraph about extension headers but the paragraph itself did not change and then here\u0027s the remainder of the first fragment and this page this didn\u0027t change and here\u0027s another example of the not calling at all this detail in the figures which created other problems and this didn\u0027t change and this didn\u0027t change and this didn\u0027t choose a lot of these and this the last one also didn\u0027t change so that the changes are I think are pretty focused around solving this problem so the the plan we worked out with sure our Airy director is to open up open a new errata that describes the error the error is in the fragmentation text and include the revised text and this will basically be a new section four point five a revised section four point five and this width and then he well then he will accept the Arado with status of verified saying it\u0027s it is a technical problem and you know it is correct to fix it and then the those the other four errata will be marked as rejected and in the notes point to the new errata and so this is the format of the new errata and so errata is when you file them they they say you know you fill in what the current text is and then you put the new text and then you have a note which describes what you\u0027re doing so you know so this will have the current text this will have the new text we\u0027ve you\u0027ve seen on the list and here and then this will be the note and it\u0027s you know short summary of the problem and that this Arado replaces these other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "errata and the change has been reviewed here and that was it so any comments or questions so Bob and I have read through this text quite a few times but I would really like a couple reviewers to to read through it from start to finish and to ensure that we really get it right this time I mean I think we used up our quota for getting it wrong Eric everything in the viewer and contributor here obviously on one of your slide you show the reassemble fragments can you come back on this one you know this one yeah obviously we need to remove the X and a per layer header but I like somehow to keep the first flag that has to go in fact that last fragment made of this yes I say my Dido so it also turns out that if you go back and look at 2460 what we\u0027re ending up here with looks a lot closer to what\u0027s in 2460 where it was described so you know there\u0027s six different ways of doing this this absolutely I mean I\u0027ll go look at that again but I you know it\u0027s it seemed like I think what we discovered is trying to break this out into a lot of detail ended up causing some other issues and the important thing is to read the text which is I think has always was correct is correct in 8,200 but the figures make this more complicated okay fair enough yeah I mean it was I mean I was the editor on this and it was really hard it was challenged and it went through the whole IETF the six-man and the authority-- F working group process and the last call and all of this you know so it it was not so much later that this was noticed that there was a you know there was actually a problem with the text but bringing all the changes in you know we\u0027ve done what we did a lot of things here and getting text that is understandable and work was clearly a challenge that we all failed okay so sure s good yeah suresh krisshnan so bob if you just send it once he agreed on this like let\u0027s put a timer on it and then I\u0027ll verify it let\u0027s say end of the year okay so my question is when should I file the new errata put it on time around the list for people to comment on this way forward and then probably in two weeks or so okay will do thank you yes we need at least a couple of people who you know read through this thing and give their thumbs up and can\u0027t find any other issues you know if they can be bothered to implement it from this text that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:08",
    "text": "would also be nice but we don\u0027t quite expect that I think it\u0027s just a few hundred lines of C right the flight oh okay Bob thank you you stay up here that\u0027s right Gouri in the room good can you feed to in the books there\u0027s a tutu in a books there\u0027s no box oh just an X Oh [Music] I\u0027m Bob so gory this is just an update out of whoops go through this quickly yeah so you\u0027ve heard this before we know their problems with half em to you this was sort of part of the idea of sending feedback from the destination instead of from middle this is the current format that\u0027s defined in the draft this hasn\u0027t changed since the last ITF meeting so since 105 this was adopted as a working group draft first working group - was published we did a request for an early I an allocation this was assigned we published a new draft with that and some other a bunch of text clarifications I also had my Wireshark code for this accepted in Wireshark I haven\u0027t done anything like this for a while so it was learning a bunch learned a bunch of stuff in all dimensions and I\u0027m not sure which I think it\u0027s going to be in the next distribution but that it\u0027s in the developers distribution and in this we\u0027ve made some measurement experiments to try and measure whether we can send a hop by hop option or an extension header we\u0027re ipv6 works and where we find a bigger empty you supported whether we can send a bigger packet and we\u0027re in the network it might not get to so that\u0027s the general scope and we have some probes we currently have five on this list here and we have a few more to give out or run maybe as virtual machines if anyone would like to join us as a place to run these measurements so these measurement probes are run using ansible they\u0027re remotely deployed they remotely execute a script of experiments and then they retrieve the data back to a central point with us and if you have a large MTU ipv6 supporting link which could be a good audience to talk to and you want to do this sort of experiment talk to me and I\u0027ll explain in detail what it is and I\u0027ll talk at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "Panaji as well and I\u0027ll mention a little bit more about how probes and it would be nice to say we\u0027ve done experiments it\u0027s kind of only just true but at least in the experience we\u0027ve done with found of like one-eighth of the destinations we probed actually supported by hope options across the path we use which is kind of fun now we got to check what that means and there was one particular and location where none of the packets went anywhere when they had a hop by hop session yes Bob\u0027s fault Bob\u0027s peers are somewhere along that path something goes wrong and so and obviously we\u0027re going to troubleshoot that so that there there is definitely evidence that hop by hop options do not work across the internet and there\u0027s definitely evidence that they can work across the internet in some cases so there\u0027s the data point we\u0027re at more information next time and this is a sort of question we\u0027re going to ask and probably obvious now how often is the path MTU smaller than normal how often can use a much larger MTU our ipv4 and ipv6 playing the same might not be interesting to six-member sure is interesting to me to figure out what happens and I can\u0027t hop my hot buttons be sent and what\u0027s the pathology we\u0027re going to try and look into pathologist so we understand why as well as just what and continuing experience please talk to us is that the end of our slide deck I can talk to us then is anybody who want to talk to us now please form a line you wish to help us in our measurements seriously and we were available on the list we\u0027re available at the idea and just torture XIV you if you want to do that but if you want to ask any questions please come and ask recline question dude do your probes run on the right backless framework no we have ideas of collaborating and running these from ripe Atlas positions as well the reason they don\u0027t is because there\u0027s a restricted set of experiments you can do from ripe Atlas positions and that\u0027s one set of experience from lots and lots of vantage points our probes that were more intended to run from one vantage point in measure lots of different paths and lots of different ways through the network and if we gather a different data set these two data sets in needs together so um yes that is interesting if you want to actually just do more than ask the question please talk to me or talk to someone else I just haven\u0027t have an hour\u0027s probe at home and I\u0027m sure I know many people who do but excellent well you should you should join the experiment we will find a way to enable you this is Robert from the ripe ncc I have been someone such a solvable problem let\u0027s talk cool oh yes thank you we did good work hello sir one more question Johnny from are we and master cousin that is this mechanism useful oi\u0027m packets or the data packet this is an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "ipv6 extension header yes so what the packet carries I don\u0027t really care I mean so well the only you say I mean can be in any packet but it it\u0027s really not intended to be in maximum MTU size packets but but it read the draft list it\u0027s all in the draft yeah okay thank you thank you okay super I think if I remember correctly we have so far next you have 50 minutes on are you doing both drafts so far or just the one we have here yep super hi my name is the Fox can you hear me well good so I\u0027m going to present update on the OLM draft is corded opted on behalf of my quarters he is a list of contributors to this draft and here the big history so the work is started back in July 2017 we had eight revision this document has been actively discussed and presented both in spring and six then at different times it got adopted at six men thanks six men to accept this but there was a lot of time that the draft keep finding it homes home while the implementations were happening and a lot of discussion and and reviews happened both actively on the list as well as off the list and since adoption also we have addressed all the common received hazy summary of the draft so the draft basically mentioned how we can use the existing ICMP mechanism for onn in a services network and then it also defines use of SRH flag specifically basically say it defines the flag for onm purposes and then it also defines some use cases how the old flag could be used and it also defined to onm sits specifically n dot o P which is a behavior designated for onm end point with punt instruction and n dot OTP which is designed for onm end point with timestamp and punt instruction so that\u0027s the overall summary of the content since ITA 105 we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "did receive some comments on the draft specifically there were some comments with respect to use and processing of au flag when a package received with SL equal to zero this version address was common thanks very much for your comments but they said this address is the common dispersion and then there were also comments regarding some cases where there were could be duplicate ICMP header error messages sent and N and this just does clarification for those as well and then there was quite a bit of comment on editorial changes and all those changes have been made in this version so the main change which is from processing quite a few dozen territorial thing is regarding clarifying the OU flag processing when a packet will see with a cell could 0 now this does not the change is still editorial in nature from the get-go in july 2017 when the OU flag was defined it was defined to make a copy of the packet and with the timestamp and forward so it always define as punt forward and process the local said how one it was a good comment that is not so clear what happened where syllable 0 so but we did is we specifically linked it back to the SRH draft and and basically say that the instruction really that goes at as 0 1.1 is that if a flag is set and local configuration permits then do make a copy of the packet time is time and send that to local one in process now this obviously get executed before the SL check SL equal to zero check so basically this chain clarified on the comment now in the deployment status at the moment there are six deployment running comer in a production Network running significant amount of commercial traffic that includes Softbank China Telecom elite China Unicom clear net and MTN Uganda and there are some other in deployments there are no not but not publicly disclosed for the public disclosure there is a draft for the SR v6 deployment status and these and and the operator have contributed to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:14",
    "text": "addition of what they have deployed and is they specifically mentioned that onm has been deployed in these deployments from implementation status point of view there are 12 hardware implementation of the draft with shipping which are shipping and those are deployed as well as we saw and there are additional known implementation and the details are provided in the ax services deployment status draft for interoperability there was a multi vendor in trop even in European at once network test center II a NTC back in March 2019 and the results for the intro op has been discussed and disclosed as part of MPLS for congress in apple 2019 these are publically available and are referenced in the services deployment and implementation status draft from a next step by whew since the draft has been deployed there are at least 12 Hardware implementation of the draft we shipping an interoperable code we think that draft is stable implementation exists Interop has been done and we intend to do a last call for this draft if depending on chairs how they take it but but definitely by wind cooler or between now and when Cooper but we will really like to hear more feedback from the working group more reviews and we welcome any corporation any questions so while people are running up to the microphone and since this is a you know six-man spring document you know when we will run a working group last call it would certainly be last call in in both working groups so I found you know unless I I believe if unless you are quite versed in in SR in spring terminology you might find this document a little hard to read how many people have read this document in in six man excellent so quite quite a few so certainly encourage you know people to review it here with Wade sort of yours v6 or six-man hat on and give us feedback we have and I guess we should discuss this with our ad if there might be overlap with all the working groups as well you know there might be I believe I ppm for example works on on sort of similar ish issues if we should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:15",
    "text": "get those in you know them involved now you know I don\u0027t know if Suresh I see you know D but subscription I was not really thinking about like know the stuff that\u0027s generally called by last call review so I was thinking like you know the other groups will get looked in later in the cycle but I think the spring is like probably important around the time of working to blast so the other stuff are like after ad well I\u0027ll probably sends a Molly review request that\u0027s kind of how we handle like you know stuff like yang and things like that I do a little bit requests if possible yeah but after the working group process yes kind of and this document depends on network programming i believe say would be stuck behind in eq for network programming document right no I I think these are independent it doesn\u0027t depend it defines from the core point point of view the behavior I in a registry point of view and all yes but otherwise from a technicality point of you know I think Ola means it\u0027s a normative reference so it\u0027s gonna not get published I think like you understand that yeah you know top of your head we\u0027re in the pipeline the network programming document is we can so network programming last call request has made Pablo is here he may more like to add something but my understanding is that last call request has been made and I at this is spring working group table Pablo comedy Jeff Cisco so yes this meeting we requested working of Lascaux and we expect you to appreciate sure ok ok yeah so we\u0027ll follow up when doing that you know probably after that every programming or close close in parallel or in parallel yeah so again I think it\u0027s fairly advanced in the process as well yeah so one thing that came up kind of like we talked about it expand related stuff as well as the they require a protocol number allocation now so they\u0027re gonna go with the early allocation request for the protocol number so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s gonna stop anything it\u0027s just that like bunch of process steps to be made yep ok yeah super let\u0027s let\u0027s get that going thank you and we appreciate really feedback from the working group thanks bye okay Jen I think your uh I think we have a six man document about this font choice of yours but I can\u0027t remember the number hi hello who has read the draft though at least know what\u0027s about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:16",
    "text": "oh come on so who was in v6 hopes okay we can count how many people were already in emails so quickly comes then the problem host join the network sends anarres gets on the right back and that eraser is everything host needs to configure addresses to know the default gateway IP and MAC address everything is ready to send the traffic good by the way router at that point has no knowledge about host global addresses yet now host start sending traffic outside to some internet destinations all good but then return traffic coming back and router again has no entries and neighbor cash for that for the host global address so router is per standard buffers one packet and starts new address resolution for the host drop in air all other packets on the floor so as a result only first packet my reach the host everything else is dropped until host starts to the transmission apparently some applications might be quite unhappy about that which causing significant user visible delays in connecting to the network you can see it yourself if you connect to v6 only not 64 SSID hear some of your phones might show like five seven seven seconds delay caused by this because he an ideal world it would be nice said by the time the traffic coming back to the router to be delivered to the host router ideally should know where to send it without all this additional delay caused by address resolution why we do not see in dual stack networks the whose hosts sent our packets taylean routers about the addresses routers gets a ARP cache updated and because of hey Bibles nobody notion and notation anything until you turn off ipv4 and then you start seeing the problem while we cannot have the same nice think in ipv6 because a neighbor discovered arrived she claims said if if v6 device receives a unsolicited na and there is no entry yet for that address then it should be silently discarded and luckily we have an explanation why it should be silently discarded because there is no reason to create an entry because the sender is not trying to talk to you it\u0027s definitely true for host by host who\u0027s the host but it\u0027s definitely not true for traffic sent through the router outside in this case he a host is not try and talk to her outer but router will need to talk to host back quite soon sir there is a draft in v6 ops which explains the problem and enumerated possible things we can do to solve it and because some of those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:16",
    "text": "solutions involves updates to neighbor discovery state machine I was advised to come here so here we are so the draft which is in six month was sent to mailing list some time ago proposed some solutions discuss the potential disruption which Maya might not be caused by the solution and has some security considerations so what we want from the solution we definitely need to be able for the host to create a stale or incomplete entry in router neighbor cache when a host starts sending traffic it should not cause any disruption for in case of duplicate addresses for example if there is an existing entry already and it would be really nice if it would work for optimistic addresses - because the whole idea of optimistic addresses where I want to send traffic as fast as possible as soon as I get array and also if I have multiple source top routers it would be really nice if it worked for both of them because host might send traffic through router one but traffic might come through completely different host router so what we can do we can do niacin and claim its works as intended transport protocol should take care of all of this and packet losses okay I kind of disagree we can do what we do for APB for hosts advertise the addresses in unsolicited A\u0027s routers Update caches everyone is happy we can let routers glean from that packet also a solution is far as I know few vendors doing it already host might sent an nh-2 router from mobile source and trigger neighbors discovery process however it would not work for opportunistic addresses because it\u0027s explicitly prohibited host might sent an arrest from global address which will trigger again packet being sent back to host however it would not work for domestic addresses if routers the multicast because you cannot sent an arrest with link layer address in arrest so if router is responding with unicast then router will trigger an address resolution but if router is doing multicast it will just respond with multicast and no entries will be created we can ask routers to buffer more packets I think security people wouldn\u0027t approve there is also idea to trigger address resolution every time the router forwards routes some packet for which it does not have entry already I kind of concerned here as far as I know a and some vendors do that but I think this connection between forwarding cancer control plane might be tricky sure proposed changes when host gets a new global address configured it should send unsolicited an A with override flag set to zero and I forgot to put it on the draft about a red flag I will update it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:18",
    "text": "in zero one so a second override flag to 0 means we would not disrupt any existing countries and rare routers may shoot and I\u0027m not sure about this should create a stale countries when they receive unsolicited tennis and there is no entry for that address yet so actually purpose because RFC currently say Ansel Easton a should be discarded I think my II does not even violate the current statement should not means me but I believe we probably should say should here because it\u0027s a good idea if you have a host on the network then probably it makes sense to create an entry proactively disruption what bad gonna happen if you do this if there is an entry already then nothing would happen because receiving Ansel Easton a might in the worst case scenario updates the entry state to income to stale which again would not disrupt any traffic it might just trigger additional cycle of neighbors in neighbor solicitations if if there is incomplete entry well this tricky right it means that router already started address resolution so router has sent and multicast honest then my new host sends this unsolicited naa in this case entry changed from incomplete to stale and it will sit in the stale until the rightful owner responds so I\u0027m talking about situation when someone might have that address already because we can expect that Solis the 10a will have overwrite said then the target and target link layer address included then style will come become reachable so the only moment when some traffic might go to the wrong destination will be between receiving na and unsolicited na and before Solis that comes but in real life the traffic would be dropped anyway because before Solis the tane came there is no enter right so I did not find the scenario when it might be disruptive but I might be wrong right so I I would like people to read this draft and tell me where I\u0027m wrong Eric you already found when I wrong good if the neighbor is err client if the neighbor is in probe state if it\u0027s ins a probe then you receive an unsolicited a you haven\u0027t verified to a reach ability yeah okay and short-circuit as far as I can remember if it\u0027s in any state except incomplete it does nothing it will just move it to stale so we\u0027re not gonna update the cache there is no condition in which any entry except incomplete might be updated yeah so there\u0027s one thing that you\u0027re not in general this makes a lot of sense the the nitty details is about this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:20",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t specify whether you set the override Fagin this or not and for it I read all of the purple stars I was attracted by the purple color and they didn\u0027t read that I noted yesterday but I was thinking it doesn\u0027t make sense to me but to submit zero one like ten minutes before the session right yeah I will update it in the draft yeah Dave Miller so on the previous slide I think yeah I have no problems with a slide and should maybe should yeah sure I think what I wanted to observe is that for the router behavior my reading is that on the slide that you had a ways back that you said this is true for hosts but not for routers or whatever where it was a should my belief is that any router that does this is still compliant with 4860 was yeah it just doesn\u0027t follow that should so this is just an elaboration on when you might not follow that should this is not actually any change to the router behavior here yeah yes it\u0027s just an informative elaboration on what should means and for a router you probably don\u0027t to follow that should that\u0027s what you\u0027re saying here yeah yeah yeah I just didn\u0027t do my stuff in the slave so that\u0027s why the bottom half I can\u0027t argue with because I believe that\u0027s already 48 61 compliant at the top half of this is the only interaction proposing as a change and that\u0027s one that I\u0027m saying I don\u0027t see a problem with that offhand although you might want to say that this whole thing is just a may because the host isn\u0027t broken per se if it doesn\u0027t send a bunch of back to back things or whatever and so it\u0027s really do us more of a ipv6 no requirements question right you want to claim that all the legacy stuff is is is no longer compliant or do you say it\u0027s compliant it\u0027s just not optimally efficient okay and so that\u0027s what I mean by is this just a May is this in a separate document that\u0027s a May or optional or whatever that\u0027s the only question I have so basically it usually it was v6 ops because I was thinking actually not even updated anything in 46 to 1 but then it was suggestion my don\u0027t release it it\u0027s actually protocol change because now we suggest that host should send some packets right here so I looked at 48 61 and checked my memory and assuming I was looking at the right place isn\u0027t it missing other place it allows sending unsolicited ascend A\u0027s right now but it does so in the condition that your link layer address changes yeah like yeah you just had a change in your MAC address or something like that and you want to proactively do it that\u0027s the only cases called out in there that I\u0027ve noticed so far what you\u0027re doing is you\u0027re adding a second condition that says I\u0027d like to do it as soon as a new address is configured and that\u0027s the purpose of the Edition yes so basically proposed change actually I think a paragraph just after that what yeah pravin actually I think like Windows or at least and the gratuitous in a right after duplicate address detection completes so this is what I was suggesting you might want if you use an optimistic that you might even want to do it before there was ways overwrite flag set to zero you\u0027re not disturbing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:21",
    "text": "anything so because again people systems which I used an optimistic dad probably do it for reason because they want to start syncing traffic as soon as possible so theoretically you might get richer in traffic before you dot completely not like again just you going back and for the day in the case that the MAC address changes you want to set override to true right so you spec says in generally it\u0027s a you set it to either one but in in practice if you want to get the benefits in that case you would set it and here you wouldn\u0027t yeah yeah you\u0027re so like again I will update the text so here is question to the audience if does it make sense if does can be for adoption and the site question actually is currently be six jobs draft enumerate all possible solutions such as the we\u0027re doing those two sins and brings it here shall we keep all possible solutions in this draft occupied in v6 hopes I don\u0027t have opinions in just a matter of where with the comment stuff so so one question so one other change you\u0027re making is that the unsolicited n/a will now have a old reaches destination address as I like yeah I forgot to put on the slide yeah just to minimize the noise and I we might send it to all halls but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s useful because it\u0027s actually intended for outers and I do not think it\u0027s it\u0027s violates any existing standards because I think the current standard says usually the destination of unsolicited assets all hosts it\u0027s not even I do not even see it as a requirement so suggestion is to send it to all others but probably we can send it to all hosts d-dave they were I came up to you because you asked the question of him does it make sense and what should you do with the all possible solutions and so on and so my comment on that is for the purse that you showed in the proposal yes that makes sense and I think it would make sense for six men to do that part as far as what to do with the list of all the other possibilities I would say leave it in the expired internet draft which will always be accessible but don\u0027t publish it as an RFC and the reason for that is if you publish all possible ways to do something people will start reading internet drafts for every single one of those over the next 20 years so my understanding Kay is currently all possible solutions belong to Bishop swabs draft in the format here is the problem we had all those ideas what to do with them starting from doing nothing and we decided there are two good things we can do and what we did in six men however as far as I know some vendors do already doing some of those additional things as well and I don\u0027t think as they have pros and cons so at least yeah we can probably keep on these are things that operators can already do by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:22",
    "text": "tweaking things meaning things that are already compliant you\u0027re changing which things are configured which rfcs are turned on and off and whether shoulds or maze or on and off that part is fine if you\u0027re saying here\u0027s a bunch of ways you can invent new technologies for new mechanisms for the involved changes RFC\u0027s I\u0027d say don\u0027t put that in an RFC just leave it in your doctor in a document right now but it\u0027s not published yes so he\u0027s clearly answering your question that this don\u0027t leave those other solutions in the other draft take them out and they will still exist forever in an expired draft suresh krisshnan so it kind of makes sense to me there\u0027s like some work I think you need to do specifically the gratuitous na s going to doll hosts as well as all daughters because it\u0027s not clear with the new text in the draft whether you\u0027re still sending the almost one as well or just sending all daughters one so I think you need to verify that okay point taken to make sense okay so the chairs have now been on training for how to get consensus in a working group and so this is not going to be a hum for adoption it\u0027s going to be a hum against adoption so but any objectors here who think that doing this solution that is proposed here would be a bad idea or break something can you please get up now or if you don\u0027t dare to get up now you can hum quietly and we\u0027ll count that as an objection Eric earring again individual contributor I like this don\u0027t take me wrong right so you know ham my only concern is that it\u0027s v6 up you come up with five solution then we could end up with five solution here the router vendors implement one two three and it was when they implement two four and five we end up nowhere so I think it can be six tops draft enumerate things I\u0027m insane pros and cons and for some of the machine it saying it\u0027s not going to work at all for example si boot here knees are thinking ns or arrests would work optimistic addresses right so I put I can put them in the section considered by discard that right I can rephrase v6 ops drafts obviously yeah because initially until now I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s all make sense I would expect some people to come and tell me that I\u0027m gonna break stuff right so it\u0027s so from a 6-minute perspective I think these six ops have presented us with a problem and we\u0027re picking a solution and I think it\u0027s Dave and Bob said you know we can leave those alternatives in a expired internet draft we certainly don\u0027t want to include them or talk about them here I think we\u0027re going to pick one solution and stand there as we pick one solution another solution yeah so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:23",
    "text": "see Fred coming up representing v6 ops and we\u0027ll hear his side of the story Fred Baker who knows nothing about v6 hops I guess my question is what expired draft are we talking about are you saying that you want v6 ops to take Jen\u0027s draft that we have and just let it expire she will do an update to that draft so the if they all won\u0027t be in the plus whatever version is now they\u0027ll go away in the current in the next version but the current version will you know she will have to two drafts in v6 ops one of which we will allow to no she will do a replacement draft which will only have one solution in it but that older have no pillar in the repository somewhere Jen what\u0027s your triton beat six ops as a draft - zero what is it\u0027s currently zero zero would remove the complete list and then could still go to RFC and so the thing that has expired is probably the wrong term to address zero zero version will always be available with the full stuff but the one that dr. 0-1 and later to RFC will not dad I understand okay yeah thanks a lot Dave for that clarification yes I think I mean our reading both of the v6 ops lists six-man and this room is that there is consensus that of this document I don\u0027t think it is necessary to do harm for any objectors did I yeah I didn\u0027t hear anything I didn\u0027t mean to do good super will confirm that own list Thank You Jen okay Keys epi are you uh are you here hello this is happen and we are going to present the ipv6 application for the afternoon of the alternate marking method so just a quick recap for this methodology so this is basically an eye on performance measurement technique that allow the two met to measure the packet loss delay and delay variation and you see the reference so we have an air FSC 8321 basically for point-to-point measurement and also the extension that we consider as this evolution that is multi-point alternate marking draft that allows flexible application of this methodology but basically it is us also the name suggests is the alternation of two value tube its value for example between red and blue and red counters are running "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:23",
    "text": "the blue counters are sealed so we can get the counters during the still period and by comparison we can calculate pocketers so basically it\u0027s very simple and same methodology apply also to delay and delay variation what are the main strengths that it works without my own pockets that divide precisely the traffic so we don\u0027t need to inject nothing in our flow it works on real production traffic it works also if you have out of sequence so this make this methodology very flexible and it works cannot synchronize at the network so you don\u0027t need a strict synchronization because the change of marking is sort of out of synchronization signal over over the network regarding the delay just we have two alternatives one is single mark the the second is double mark the single mark we use one bit I\u0027ll beat the so you see the alternation between 1 and 0 you can do the alternation for fixed set period also or based on fixed numbers so it is the same change also only the implementation and so the albiet can it\u0027s used for the delay and for first sorry for the packet rows while for the delay you can take the reference just for the first on last pocket of each marking period but this doesn\u0027t work so well in case of reordering so in this case you can also calculate the average packet delay and delay variation if we have the ability to have a second bits in this way we can use the first bit for the packet rows and second bit for the delay in this case you can select some packets within each period to follow this packet along path and calculate the delay for these packets in this case you can have a more informative information because you can calculate minimum the maximum and all the statistics for for the delay so you you can have more informative matrix okay that is basically the methodology if you want more detail come to me already draft in IP pm what about ipv6 we already have presented draft and I think in London that makes reporter the summary about some alternatives on how to apply this methodology so for example we reported some alternatives that we already investigated about the use of ipv6 addresses the ipv6 flow level that we cannot use of course because ipv6 addresses is too expensive the use of flow labels is against the RFC 64 38 because it is based on the easy NP so in this case if we use flow label to mark "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:24",
    "text": "we can change the the path so in this case is not good to make performance and to change the part at the same time so the only way in summary you can say that the only way is to use the an option either if we consider the ipv6 or the IDL V if we consider the SH our idea is to define and generalize alternate marking data fields we have made considering all the deployment use cases that we have we think that we can generalize this data field so as I said we need to marking 4 bits to marking leads so L built and D bit one for loss and the other for delay we considered also a flow monitoring identified in T fire so I 20 bits that is not like the flow label but allow us to make a Freudian TIFF occasion this is not crucial for the methodology but can be very useful for the deployed for deployment area for deployment reason and then we put some reserve 8 bit for future use and this basic this data fields we want to include in an option header or a necessary htlv so we investigated some alternatives also there was some discussion on the mailing list and you can use this option as up by up has destination option other depending on which measure you want to activate or in NS htlv for example in we are making a summary of the the alternative options that you may have you can have a destination option in this case you can measure the end to end with the destination address the hop by up option if you want to measure foreign every router on the path an ester htlv in this case you can allow the matrix on every node along the SH pad and also a combination and of destination option and the CH but if this is basically the same the same SL htlv so we can mention only for for cosmetic reason and as I said this is not zero zero version because we didn\u0027t present last time this is zero one and we got several comments on mini list in particularly want to thank Bob all Tom and Stefano that give us some feedback and provements to the document in particular to investigate the alternatives and to adjust some time the wording of the draft as next step so I think we have found an agreed way to apply the FEC 8321 and its evolution in particular because we look also to the multi point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:24",
    "text": "of mark methodology for ipv6 and we asked for comments feedback and of course we would like to go for the adoption but it\u0027s up to you so what is the relationship between the work going on in IP p.m. and in this document do you mean the alternate marking or in bandar on which social team working I mean others working on this in the draft are only experimental because we cannot make standard with this kind of methodology so in IP p.m. we are basically - we are described in general methodology so now we want to apply in real protocol big so do what I\u0027m trying to ask us think is is you know the distribution work between IP p.m. and and and 6 man if 6 man is left you know defining the you know TLV format and perhaps rules of which extension headers to go in and and you know the marking logic if you like if if that\u0027s going to stay in IP p.m. for example and I guess you know usually if I also look at the experience of other methodology the protocol the protocol specific application are made in the working group for example here in six-man and but the methodology the general methodology we are working of course in a ppm because it is protocol agnostic we can say so you can apply to other kind of protocols and yet how many people are ready stuffed okay hands down I counted you I think we you know let us have a you know chat with the I ppm okay ad chairs as well and and then you know certainly want to see continued discussion on the mailing list as well and you know figure out on a mailing list and then you know with you know see the next step as as adoption er okay super thank you thank you okay mark Europe hello max me some first idea for Ben to sort of in a long time I\u0027ve been on the mailing list for a very long time this is a bit blue sky and I\u0027ve fallen over you habit of using bullet points so you might only find two or three okay whoops ipv6 formal any cast and functionally accursed addresses current ipv6 anycast addresses are from within the unicast address space and as our seat 4291 says they\u0027re indistinguishable to configure any cast it\u0027s it\u0027s usually a flag on an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:24",
    "text": "interface when you configure an address what that does is it disables duple hood address detection and to get them available in the routing domain you have to inject it somehow it\u0027s treated as unicast by routing the main protocols and other hosts I think that\u0027s a negative sometimes if you happen to have duplicate route table entries that\u0027s a fault if it\u0027s unintentional but if it\u0027s intentional then it\u0027s probably anycast the forwarding scopes or domains for these types of anycast addresses is fairly cost we have global local network and link what about something a bit more discrete such as realm administrative or organizational another thought or an example is that applications or protocols can\u0027t distinguish unicast or anycast addresses without manual configuration an idea is to have multipath TCP or UDP establish using anycast and then switch to using a unicast and it would be useful to be able to distinguish the address types so the thought I\u0027ve had is to have a formal ipv6 anycast address space my thought is a a soshite or possibly FA for formal anycast they\u0027re both available there\u0027s actually not my idea the earliest RFC one of the earliest if not early star of C\u0027s on any Casper 1546 suggested two ways of supporting anycast and one of them was to have a well known class of addresses with the advantages being it\u0027s easier to determine and addresses in anycast address and well-known anycast addresses are easy to support if we have a look at some of the existing anycast addresses that are already defined within a subnet we have the top 127 addresses they\u0027re reserved for this purpose and there\u0027s a couple of specific resident reservations the reserves subnet any caste range there\u0027s also the mobile ipv6 home agents the other one that\u0027s within a subnet is all zeros for this subnet route or any cars address these have different scopes and the scopes depend on the type of unicast prefix in use such as global or link local etc there are some others that are global globally assigned by iana they\u0027ve discarded discard only address block 164 that\u0027s a network local even though it\u0027s a globally unique address the port control protocol anycast in theory that\u0027s supposed to be globally reachable but if you look at what PCP is about it\u0027s unlikely you\u0027d have a random PCP server somewhere out on the intern that you want to send to there\u0027s the turn one and then there\u0027s the as1 one to service one looking at these reserved well-known addresses I think there are three common properties there encoding services and functions they\u0027re not actually hosts or interface identifies any unique assets they have different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:24",
    "text": "number spaces so we have the gor global for some of those non guha global and subnet ID and they also have different forwarding domains or scopes I realize that these properties are actually similar to what Molly caste has and so if the idea of having a formal anycast address prefix is good then I think any caste is by similar to unicast and it\u0027s also similar to multicast in the sense that it\u0027s been used for services and functions sort of thinking about where that puts any caste it\u0027s perhaps can be imagined to be halfway between unicast and multicast one to one one to any and one to many so if we were to have a formal anycast address space then we could seek some inspiration from multicast we have scopes we can have an embedded unicast prefix we can have some Ayana well-known function or service IDs and also local network service or function IDs the proposal for an any caste formal any caste prefix ia as I suggested then have a visible scope which I say the same values as the multicast scopes then four bits for an any caste identify format this is to allow flexibility in the lower 112 bits and this is also because I realize as a shape as a bowl to us so I should preview feature proof it a bit possibly a dozen a new destination unreachable code for edge of visible scope reached an interim alternative would be communication with destination and militarily prohibited in terms of destination address selection the formal anycast would be preferred over unicast by default but there are some applications such as that modify protocol example where you might want to prefer unicast well that can be easily that can either be selected because of the well-known anycast prefix I had this idea of the thought of hosts being out of register there anycast addresses and then when I was preparing this presentation I found a internet draft from 2001 I\u0027ve been on the mailing is since 2002 so I missed this but the idea is sort of already there another thought that occurred to me was using anycast addresses for hop-by-hop processing of packets through network after the local hop processing which obviously starts to relate to what\u0027s happening in spring and so on after the local hop processing there\u0027s an RPF check on the source address same as multicast however we need to exclude the local node anycast destination address instance to prevent a packet looping around within the node and then finally the forwarding is based on the remaining anycast routes this is neither unicast or multicast forwarding it\u0027s got bits of both and it\u0027s actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:26",
    "text": "a series of host hops if we look at our FC 8200 on what our router is versus what a host is the thing to remember about these definitions is they\u0027re really functional definition is not device definitions so a router is a node that forwards ipv6 packets not explicit to it explicitly address to itself well this is a destination address on a device inside the network that is that the address is assigned to so that would actually make it a host and therefore this processing would be a path of host hops through the network regarding the a the first format I think I\u0027ve mentioned it the functional anycast this is the breakdown of the lower 112 bits there\u0027s an anycast domain prefix which would be a unicast prefix this is inspired by mod it casts RFC 3306 all zeros identifies an unspecified or this domain and this also provides an opportunity to do any casts more specific route aggregation at this point there\u0027s Reserve bits and then a prefix length of sixty four-bit sorry six bits of prefix length zero mean 64 this flags again inspired by multicast however in this case is only two T equals zero T equals one T equals zero means that the anycast function ID on the far right here\u0027s a well-known Iona signed one similar multicast T equals one a transient local any custom own assigned similar multicast again this is sort of new this is a to introduce a local instance of the anycast address an example could be that you are developing an any car service and you also have a production version this is a local instance configuration revision etc a number embedded in the address this is a bit of a soft field it could also be used to extend the anycast function ID to 32 bits if that would be useful and finally the last allow 24 bits the anycast function ID with the t equals 0 or 1 Flags determining whether it\u0027s I on a sign or not it could be a bit simpler I\u0027m not sure about the prefix length field it\u0027s an informational field and possibly with one flag value could be encoded somewhere else some example uses I\u0027ve tried to set this up along quite a while ago to have an Internet DDoS impervious ISP anycast DNS resolvers the requirements would be reachable to all of a nice peace customers but not reachable from the internet and then it\u0027s attributable to the ISP sure your customers could DDoS the DNS but they have a good interest in not doing that because they break their own internet so we would form that using a formal anycast prefix of a a as mentioned this would be a new scope of a visible scope of a network service provider which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:26",
    "text": "would be greater than organizational but smaller than global and then the anycast identify format of functional unicast the only Castlemaine prefix would be one of the ISPs globally unique doers to de l\u0027eau total 0 1 DB 8 prefix length of value of zero meaning such 64 flags of zero because it\u0027s a honor assigned any caste functional identifier local instance since it\u0027s in production zero or whatever the ice P decides but zero seems logical for functional and then these would be some example I honor assigned well-known function IDs of 53 54 and 55 so these would be the anycast addresses for dns that we would distribute to our ISP customers IAB 0 to Devon deviate 53 54 55 another example to to fill it out this is an organizational thing a service in development I don\u0027t know what a thing I does but it\u0027s likely to find again a a size 8 this scope would be organization and again the functional anycast identifier format anycast the main prefix the ice the the organization could put any of theirs there but to reduce visibility they might use ula so if d xxy was its etc again prefix length value of 0 indicating such 64 this time the t flag is 1 because it\u0027s a local organization assigned the local instance where we 6a because this is the ITF 106 revision and finally there\u0027s any cost function identifier of 54 40 47 which is an arbitrary number and is TNG in ascii so that\u0027s that one\u0027s a bit longer but it could be encoded in dns but there\u0027s a a atfd and the the ula prefix the ID for the t flag and then 6 a 5 4 4 e47 the status I sort of have worked on this for quite a while the idea is sort of mostly baked I think I\u0027ve been working in thinking on this for about three years I had no idea that whether a pan out or not and asking for a sashayed is pretty bold so I think you gotta justify that a lot I reasoned I discovered the host by Cindy Carson using ml d was a same suggest there\u0027s been some thoughts of doing this sort of thing before as much it was 20 years ago nearly and on the ITF 106 to present so I thought I\u0027d see if I could rightfully the Internet Society for sending me here any thoughts or suggestions or questions yeah we would really like to hear how much to my client please I\u0027m sorry Cisco so clearly there\u0027s a value in identifying that this is any cost or not address and some of the large scale v6 deployments I\u0027ve been part of a few of them requires such an identification and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:27",
    "text": "the way we address them by just using a bit which was part of the Geo a and using that within that domain and that worked out reasonably well and it reasonably well to the point that we could filter it if he needed to the best part which was an advantage was that we could still keep our summarization boundaries within the G way as we would need and that was the best part in my opinion with this I think that becomes a downside because now this is independent of my Geo a that means I gotta create additional rodding entries even if it\u0027s within that AAA or FA water that might be yep so I\u0027m sort of 50/50 on that yeah thank you Eric one yeah sort of similar to that point I was sort of wondering operationally for your network for a network service provider how much what\u0027s the difference in work required for using one of these and routing / 128 says any guests throughout your network for various services versus just using it GA they might have or three FF II for that matter okay sorry look the the way I look at I like to try make things easier having identification I look at the troubleshooting example and think it would be useful to immediately know it was anycast address rather than potentially having to investigate configuration and so on it it seems useful to me I certainly when I looked at trying to implement DDoS impervious ISP resolvers not had globally reachable would be quite an advantage isn\u0027t it a matter of the service providers filtering policy yeah except you get the hundred gigabits traffic before you throw it away whereas if it\u0027s completely unreachable if the internet no one can send it to you I think they can send that to you anyway on another address on another service no matter letter if they know that you have any address prefixes allocated to you at all then they can still attack you Michael Richardson I liked it on the list I still like it I think that one of your use cases was the quick case of negotiate on anycast and then and and then move elsewhere and and I like that use case too I believe that\u0027s the killer use case unfortunately it doesn\u0027t work if the address is not visible to do is not address announcing ball to the rest of the world right so that\u0027s true there\u0027s the drafts 30 pages so these beat some phases of life that Ron so this is it that\u0027s my thought I so so maybe there\u0027s actually two spaces of what we need there was a recent thread "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:27",
    "text": "on the EC n sanity list about equal cost multi path you know you may have seen this thing apparently they were switching on the EC n bits and so if you turned them off in the middle of your TCP connection you then went to the other any casted DNS server over TCP which didn\u0027t work right so making that work would be good somehow to identify it or to make it clear to the ecmp that this wasn\u0027t any caste address and it shouldn\u0027t do quite the same thing that would also be great but I don\u0027t see how to make that work and also make your you know bulletproof DNS server work we had a need for some kind of an anycast address in the home net space yep where we want to reach whichever thing has stuff and it wasn\u0027t at all clear to us how to to do that except that we would wind up saying okay well his the HomeNet was going to be well would be all you la s so and we may not even have address resolution we want a special magic address that we can essentially hard-code so the a a thing would be useful for that even if it doesn\u0027t solve the quick problem so i think you have multiple use cases and i\u0027d like to proceed for investigating this i I have I started composite the the gap in the draft is more or less used cases but I\u0027ve sort of came up with about six different ones perhaps internal multiple TCP and so on John linka I\u0027m kind of sitting on the fence here right so I I wouldn\u0027t use it because I do not see use case really but I guess if someone else he believes it\u0027s useful yeah why not I\u0027m a bit concerned about again we\u0027re gonna live in the world when you have any cost in your prefix and any cost which belongs to unicast address space right because not everyone going to renumber right but however there is one good think about this and I don\u0027t see it mention can you draft from my perspective the biggest problem with any cost is load balancing if you can say router must not ever use L for information for load balancing for anycast addresses I only use Elstree slash flow label or whatever that would be beneficial right so I don\u0027t need to explicitly configure that and it would be done out immediately that might words mention can the draft yeah I think to some extent the the idea of using multi-car Ahmadi path protocols that just established with any caste which is say half a dozen packets and then switch to unicast potentially can address that with intelligent exists in real life you send one bit big packet you fragmented and the second part never reaches your the same anycast server as the first part and then like yeah and tell me about like Jody pennette I am wondering "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:36",
    "text": "one of the advantages that I see which the actual anycast is that the horse don\u0027t differentiate it and and and i think that\u0027s very useful so i see just the other way that you are looking at well house isn\u0027t forced to I mean mmm house don\u0027t have to do anything to implement this this is really you know it\u0027s it\u0027s a remote what a remote address appears like so host could treat this as a unicast address the way they do today I don\u0027t know I am Philly a missing something but I think that\u0027s the best property that we have from the act on any cast I don\u0027t know I I need to read again the the document maybe but I think that\u0027s that\u0027s the best that we have which any cast actually alright thank you very much appreciate its on thank you and I think we\u0027ll continue the discussion on the mailing lists thank you sorry the draft so long thank you okay so then we have to sort of semi lightning draft that we\u0027ve given a little bit more time today the first one is asymmetric ipv6 hello everyone component you from Ali today I will introduce a symmetric ipv6 of flexible usage over 36 in edge out here scenarios so a symmetric ipv6 will use short in the addresses because of the released region which is tricky of the MTU and the big and bit rate and a bit of each regions and the compression approaches like 6lowpan may not work here may not work here because of the edge routers may be constrained so a symmetrical ipv6 will route directly on shorting the addresses to award compression and decompression hope I hope so the master includes defend a short residence in and see the rest over peace as prefix lanes and the ribbon field can use the short addresses for interment forwarding but for addresses or sight so an and more unnecessary headers can be alighted through using a flexible header including the short "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:36",
    "text": "address lanes and the short residence is is decided to men by two men when the network\u0027s start up and that it will be configured into or learned by by local devices so as a metric at v6 Ryu reuses are a message but into to defend new flag beach for shorter grass mode so for configuration a new tone the device as SRA here means a short route address for our a map from our a message and in generator or shorter address accordingly this address can be used for the interface address only only for passing validation of the ad or rewires the D ad if not then regenerate another one so what\u0027s capital e link app installation is very simple we use the adoption layer layer 6lowpan but a new dispatch should be giant should be assigned for a symmetric ipv6 and the following we use including including bits for outward for outward communication traffic the key to be master a terrific to form standard standard ipv6 addresses and the corresponding operation is for the in world traffic terrific space will not attend to to introdu main communications at at last considering there normally be few outside ipv6 ipv6 addresses involved so as soon as a magic ipv6 can allocate short italic interrogation for the outsider at v6 ipv6 addresses here but new options of RS and are a message should be defined for tight ok an comments and questions thank you so they can have one question the what is the packet format that the application on the inner side looks like is that in our view 6 header or is it very shortened compressed header you mean format so device a the IP stack on device a what is it Cedars it\u0027s C a compressed header there\u0027s it uncompressed it and see if the library says hey happen to here do you mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:37",
    "text": "above the socket API or below the socket API well I write code on devices they don\u0027t have socket API so just look at a packet so what does my the packet buffer that I pass up to my application of some sort look like that\u0027s a good question I tell you my preference it depends but I would suggest that it should you see the expanded packets but just because that\u0027s probably how the code is written but actually it isn\u0027t necessary is it right but at least it has the information or its intended that it has the information that it can actually uncompress the header yeah well I mean we can create recreate a complete ipv6 packet so if that\u0027s what you want in the API that\u0027s what we could do yeah this takes us back Fred Baker here this bake takes us back to a discussion to happen before ipv6 was standardized in RFC 1883 should we have a variable length address or a fixed length of Jocelin there were proponents of each side so this is a new protocol or a change to the ipv6 header which would insert a length field and a pointer to where in the address are we starting and I guess my first question is how does a host know where the edge of the network is how much is enough of the address you know I\u0027m not sure a host has that visibility into the network Brian I I think yeah it it knows this one post a bit quickly in the presentation but it knows the the address length in use within the domain and therefore it knows that some addresses are short and some addresses along which is which is signaled in the packet by magic bits how does the host know what to signal you haven\u0027t answered the question it doesn\u0027t need to I mean it\u0027s in the domain where this is being used it either uses a short address if over a long address according to what the destination is I suggest read the draft and then ask the question again let me so I\u0027m just asking a question not the chair question so I looked at the draft in in the beginning it talks about the motivation funder stood this the motivation was for 5g networks that have are very restricted in bandwidth and packet size limits and then it had a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:37",
    "text": "reference to some sort of document that was sort of it talking about the characteristics of 5g networks but I looked at that document and I didn\u0027t see anything that justified the assumptions you know or the problem that this was attempting to solve so I did I don\u0027t understand what the use case for this is okay this and that either mainly for the constraint network domain in the edge in the eyes networks so maybe why would you maybe not Favot e okay well I think there would have to be a lot you know I think yeah at least it convinced me you have to convince me that this is a problem that needs to be solved and then you know there\u0027s like we have a zillion different ways of doing compression already and what why we need a different one so growing again I mean in a sense that\u0027s why we took this drove to sizzler 6lo as well because that\u0027s the business and we didn\u0027t get asked that question there because they understand the answer if you like it it probably needs more context for people or not in the 6lo world but we thought we\u0027d better mention it here anyway since we\u0027re mucking about with their ipv6 packet for that since 1883 suresh krisshnan as the responsible ad for about six months six law I I personally also think the justification is not clear because one of the things it says in that draft is like oh I don\u0027t want to talk about cheek for example right because there\u0027s compression overhead that\u0027s not like obvious to me at all because she can compress even higher than this and get a better smaller packet format while keeping the IP header pretty much intact like before compression so and specifically what bob was saying the Phi G document pointed to in this draft is a user plain analysis draft which talks nothing about constrained networks it\u0027s more about okay do we use gtp or SR v6 and all the other mechanisms so I think it\u0027s a wrong reference personally so you might find a better reference for it and probably if you look at like NB IOT or something in Phi G maybe you\u0027ll get a better reference I think that was Bob\u0027s point because I know about this I\u0027m giving you a better option for a reference but I think like it\u0027s good that six man is aware of it but it probably happens to happen somewhere else maybe six slow or lpy on or somewhere would be a better place for this to be discussed I I know you presented this in six slow and so but but the point is like I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s room for yet another compression format that\u0027s different unless you justify that by saying hey this is the reason and the current things don\u0027t work for me rather than saying hey there\u0027s a decompression overhead because it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:39",
    "text": "clear the overhead is very big okay I come here mainly because we reuse the re and a deity mechanisms now I understand the solution like it\u0027s I\u0027m just saying like is the problem big enough for us to come up with a completely new solution that is the part of not here like maybe prions to take a shot at it but that\u0027s the part that\u0027s not letting an injury contributor I must have eaten and read the draft but may we assume that the note using the short address is the knowledge of its full 128-bit address so that aah and ICMP generation will work that\u0027s a good question I think we have to make sure that the same time we tell the domain that it\u0027s address length is 32 or whatever we also tell it what the prefix to that 32 is that exact reason Thank You Roger sorry Cisco so got two-part question one in the slide and mentioned that the compression decompression algorithm takes resources and empty you may be low on the physical MTU if you could clarify how low are we talking about them to you and how much resources consumption for compression decompression is really problem so any numbers he could share that would be really useful and the second part was more on the solutions if if two hops are exchanging or negotiating the value for that n because you\u0027re calculating 128 minus n how high the end could go there\u0027s no binding there\u0027s no constraint that I noticed in the draft so could I go as low as two bytes could I go as high as back to 128 bytes so the negotiation even if it\u0027s between two hops and then it goes in a cascading manner and how does it really work out that I couldn\u0027t really follow that yes the first question were good we will finish the detail information and the later maybe we Explorer explosed each in the drafts and for the second one and then you should in creation will induce the local lanes increase and not a decrease so but if originally domain meant to make it we decided to use decides to use two B\u0027s lens is okay but the total security system a network will be small so I think we\u0027re sort of out of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:44",
    "text": "time for this so let\u0027s continue this on the mailing list thank you very much for speaking okay our last speaker for this session hello everyone this is the Holly song from future we are today I am going to introduce the idea of a supporting postcard based famine tree for us our v6 om we all know there\u0027s a new class of data into memory techniques we call it on past data telemetry which can directly collects the data about the user traffic by embedding some actual instruction header into the packet it\u0027s very important too for ipv6 our v6 to support om and application-aware services however are we all know that I saw due to the SRH the header overhead of as our v6 it is already pretty high and then is a problematic to add even more header into the SR v6 header and also by introduce another new header may introduce some sure and ambiguity to the encapsulation because it\u0027s not clear where you will apply this this function is the under our each underlying table or some per Section basis so it\u0027s it\u0027s not clear so a better solution is use what we call the PBT M is a document it in another draft we submit it to I PP M so the basic idea is that we instead of insert a new header into the packet we just use a single bit to mark the packet if we want to collect any data about it so once a segment router received this packet and detective speed it will just a base down to some pre configurations and collect some data about this package and send it directly to a collector using a postcard packet so it solves a performance issue because it doesn\u0027t process user packet it directly just detecting the \u0027martha from it and it wired any pesticides inflation and it avoids the trouble of encapsulation and it guaranteed better security arm for the for the data exported and also it has extra benefit to be able to detect the location of the job it was the user traffic is dropped but it also introduced some new issues like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:44",
    "text": "we do since if we have a bunch of a postcard sending from many segments routers for each single packet let me need to have a mechanics to correlate this postcard and also there it introduced a little bit higher export data overhead because each piece of data from each router you will need an independent packet and also you do need to configuration because there\u0027s no more instruction carried by the packet itself however this all this issue can be correctly solved and therefore that the proposal is actually quite simple since we already have a flag fields in the Asajj header then we can just a borrow one bit from that part it\u0027s not necessary to be the first bit any bit will do so but use this single bit as indicator if you ever want to collect the unpassed data about this packet you just enable that bit and how to solve the packet correlation problem there are some common measures already be documented in our postcard based email telemetry Draft and here for as actually we have extra advantage because we already have the segment list and which can help we ask to order the postcards correctly and if we need some extra information such as a flow ID for the flow correlation or sequence number for the packet correlation then we can include them as simply as a tea always in SRH so I think this a pretty simple and elegant solution and therefore I think it might be considered as a formal document in the working group yeah suresh krisshnan so not speaking as a tea but as somebody who has an inventor elementary implementation yeah I think the idea of having something in the payload protocol to mark in bang telemetric collection doesn\u0027t scale okay so if you want to do this for every protocol for which you want to do in bond telemetry it\u0027s not going to work okay so you need to do something outside the payload for which you need to collect so I think it\u0027s not the right approach 100 what about for encrypted HTTP packets how do you signal you want to have telemetry for that it\u0027s just it\u0027s a head of a search Parsa Raj let\u0027s say there\u0027s no a syrette right you have a HTTP packet that\u0027s flowing through your system right and you want to collect telemetry for that Yeah right where you signal so this is about second routing so you said this is required for in van telemetry to signal collection of postcards right so if you want to do that for every protocol that you carry including SRH which is a protocol they say this is the best free implementation for us or six so the PBT is a general approach "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:44",
    "text": "general method it can be applied to any transport protocols but this is just a specific proposal how you will apply is it to SR v6 but I don\u0027t think this bit is required that\u0027s the point I was trying to make because for every protocol is oh I I don\u0027t understand why you\u0027re saying it\u0027s not required because sometimes I just want to follow the path of this packet and also want to monitor the per section upper segment and latency or no any other application use cases for this if I want to collect this data I have no other ways to do that so you have an active and a passive or EMS ER but they know directly give you the user package behavior no but if you don\u0027t have any sir edge how do you do this what if you don\u0027t have it sir edge how do you do it then this depends on different protocol you can find different ways a call does not make sense that is my point yeah I\u0027m just saying for SRA should we do have the weight because there are flags we can just use single bit turn from Cisco Systems I\u0027m not sure about the IP pm part of this or anything but it seems like you\u0027ve got a bit that says copy this packet and do something with it isn\u0027t that I don\u0027t copy of the packet sorry I just uh sets they submit to you this RH and then it\u0027s just basically notify the router to you know I understand yet at that router that processes this header it sees that a bit is set yeah and then it does some special something or other yeah okay and I don\u0027t know what that special something rather is right but there\u0027s a bit that we just talked about earlier that was a in the working group document that does that so you might want to consider whether you need this bit or if there\u0027s something else that already exists and that\u0027s without understanding how you\u0027re gonna use this just it looks like the same thing yep okay go so hobby I added some clarification regarding the usual I think that they say you know we always talk about the I sorry six because we in fact that we have some days the the boundary of the network sometimes we think i sorry six me you was further limited to me and not for the other internet so I think ideally you some the difference yes oh and also this one because I you mentioned the HTTP package so these we may use some the HTTP is repaired by the I sorry sixth ah no in some limited Otomi for the mobile transporter like this one so only this information you the is the exporter in the mobile transporter I think this is the scenario but I think if you think may be more general for the HTTP or some the application there if you need a some days director this information I think that maybe other solution I\u0027ll go after towel algo Thomas rahi so first of all I agree with the this use case I agree with what has been said here that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:46",
    "text": "basically this is a different application than alternate marking but they can both use the same kind of trigger at the end of the day it\u0027s a trigger for doing something and I believe it\u0027s the same requirement from the data plane so a common solution can be found for both yeah I agree them do you want to go ahead of me with manic smokey eye I have a question is this in the context of APN six which was discussed yesterday in the routing working group oh no sorry this is the first time I present me nobody from a solution perspective on how you\u0027re going to use it is this related to the or is it a PNM six which was yesterday discussing routing working group I say I say now they say you do not directly relate to the agent six even though as Harvey six is because of you maybe the user pair that the packet appeared the PI sorry sixth ah no you I mean you know I you you probably have a use case on how you\u0027re going to use this right for me this looks very similar what\u0027s yeah the use case achieve with AP and six and if that\u0027s true I think we first need to flush out whether ap and six as a use case is actually something ITF will adopt and how and so on so forth so for me I think we shouldn\u0027t rush into the solution space every tooth first is the use case and how is applicable and how it will whether it will ever use because if a PM six you have lots of let\u0027s say privacy issues and stuff like that which were discussed yesterday in routing working group so my suggestion would be if it\u0027s related to that let\u0027s first flush this out before we rush into solution space here I think starting points about yeah women I think are now they say now that\u0027s the two things and you now you certificado since this is either the days of the elementary embedded elementary so these are you the Isar past level as are possible years as yeah but at the AP and that maybe later can\u0027t combine that we look together that\u0027s a user application level I think that\u0027s a even until now I don\u0027t think the cobbler together right right they see intent to monitor the segments of voting behavior the performance yeah so on so description so just answering Robyn\u0027s point right so I do understand why you\u0027re doing the postcard base telemetry I just don\u0027t see why you want to do it for every protocol because if you\u0027re doing this for s rv6 you probably had to do it for NS h for some other protocol that\u0027s gonna go through right but if you have it outside the protocol it\u0027s it\u0027s similar to saying like oh I want to collect like some net flow information right from from a some kind of packet and the packet itself has a bit in there it says like hey now send your statistics so I I think that\u0027s not a scalable approach you may or may not want to do it but I\u0027m just telling you doing this per protocol for which you want to get postcards base telemetry it\u0027s not gonna work I\u0027m a talk no talking about applies to every particle but here I just are talking about how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:46",
    "text": "apply it in sro v6 yeah Brad she was sorry I think so I see that in it\u0027s interesting to to be how having a packet can way that hey do something with me yeah and related to what Suresh was saying this is very specific for si v6 when there\u0027s an SR H in place right so I\u0027m just curious to hear your point of view why restrict this to that specific use case why not just do it on ipv6 there are tons of deployments out there just with native ipv6 why not do it in somewhere in ipv6 main header just curious yeah I don\u0027t think that we\u0027re not we could do it or not yes so so if you look at our original draft on the PBT when we talk about this we actually give several possibility to apply this in several different other protocols but here because those are high level mastered and it has some a married compared with IOM and here are we just give a if you want to apply this to to support the OEM for sr v6 how you can do that so then we need to find a place to hold this mark so that\u0027s a proposal here if you make talking about if you want to apply this different to different our networks to difference narrows you do need to find a you know a place to host to host this this mark so that\u0027s a different issue or not for this our working group why not do it in the ipv6 header was my question yeah so so far I don\u0027t have a you know very you know solid idea how we can do that in our ipv6 because you know I don\u0027t I cannot find a a bit to hold the mark yeah so that\u0027s a usual thanks again I don\u0027t quite understand that statement because we have draft or a metal IP p.m. six-man IRA and ipv6 deployment for much yeah which is talking about doing this in ipv6 not in s o v6 off because that\u0027s the user are actual extension headers yes you use an extension header you you\u0027re stealing a bit in someone else\u0027s extension but it\u0027s still an extension of the existing header I don\u0027t introduce a new header to that that exactly as I said the problem here is a overhead issue I don\u0027t want introduce and you had her to expand the size further yeah pointed Suresh is making is your solution is only Universal within a domain where everything is encapsulated in and has a certain H the other raft which is an I ppm draft I guess would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:49",
    "text": "work for every ipv6 packet in the world if we decided to support such an extension so that\u0027s the that\u0027s the decision that somebody needs to take yeah thank you so I mean this is a lightening Draft I think this clearly more work needed here and certainly coordination between I ppm you know I\u0027ll spring for this case you should you know probably sit down with the old mark authors and and look at that as well I mean we there has to be some you know coordination of this set of markers in packets you know for sure yes so you know let\u0027s continue that on the on the list so we are actually eight minutes earlier I think I can\u0027t remember that has ever happened while I\u0027ve been co-chair at this working group luckily we have one more session that starts at 1740 the same room please bring popcorn cause we have planned for a very entertaining discussion and see you then interior is in the meantime but it\u0027s not going to be here there\u0027s a sea bore class I think thank you the second blue sheet if you have that can you please bring it up to the stage thank you [Music] "
  }
]