[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "hi folks aaron texted me that he's going to be a little bit late so maybe let's give people five minutes at least and i invite you people to turn on their video and or audio if they would like however i noticed that these interim meetings are being recorded and uploaded to youtube automatically i don't know how to turn it off i can ask but that's kind of fun i don't care good to see you okay hey fellow what's going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:17",
    "text": "yeah it's amazing is that choppy for other people as well i'm not sure what's happening so the automatic uploading keeps people from showing themselves is that how it is i'm not sure i mean [Music] i'm trying to find a place was better i am at the right meeting in berlin today just met ryan about one hour ago so let's see if we'll find a place with better wi-fi are they still doing oh no ripe is in person now is it hey aaron i think it is well first in person meeting yeah first meeting for the last two and a half years now wow and yeah so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "rob is hybrid but here are a lot of pers um people in person cool how is it uh it's amazing to see so many people again but it's also extremely tiring because after the first day everyone is tired right you seem to have a much better connection now yes yeah so don't move so some people might have this familiar view okay because this is this is the intercontinental where i had my first to write um itf meetings oh that's right yeah yep i i remember that place that was a good venue nice i was slightly alarmed people started posting pictures out of the window of that hotel as they were arriving at right and i was looking at the pictures saying i know exactly what hotel you're in without you if it works it works okay great so we are five minutes in and it looks like some people are still joining but maybe we can slowly get started ayanna colin everybody um yes so today in terms of agenda i think we mostly had uh wanted to talk about the implementation draft and we did get a few comments but i was thinking uh maybe before we do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "that uh we can like briefly check in about so i we have an itf meeting coming up but we just had a tab session at iatf 113 and i think the uh working groups sort of sense of how often we should have these at an ietf meeting was that maybe every other meeting so that means we're not having one at 114 would be the idea and i just wanted to check in if that's sort of still what the working group agrees we should do in which case we could probably put in an explicit we are not going to meet kind of thing but that sounds fine to me i mean we should keep doing the interims and keep driving to completion but i think it'd be okay okay great i have no strong opinions on that okay good uh yeah i'm not aware of any other topics other than our usual issues and prs so why don't we get started with those do we have a volunteer to drive ours not slides uh github please i can do it i'm trying to remember when i asked to share in media echo that i guess that's just the whole screen that it does it's like granted permission and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "does it not have the single window kind of thing i feel like we have this no i don't have a single window whatever you support i guess oh colin is being choppy oh okay okay this looks good to me ten people you can see this okay so i think right now i'm as i have the issues here filtered for implementation and then we also have just all of our open prs yes two of which are about implementation okay but i mean i think we can just talk about all the issues and prs that we have as usual okay um it do we want to kind of start from the oldest or we do have kind of like the the recent review that we got um do you want to go the reset right we also have two of them here with us yeah exactly that's what i was thinking would be good to do okay hello thank you thank you for the review all right so this one had a pr opened for it um just for people to look at the scope it's not huge mainly just kind of cleaning things up and trying to clarify bits i'm in general fine with it we had some suggestions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "um anna commented i i guess um for going ahead should we just try to make the changes we think are appropriate do you want to update the pull request based on that how should we go ahead so as the author maybe i can comment um of the pr i try to be as sort of conservative as possible and sort of make a very minimal pr in terms of scope and changes and in order to sort of test the watches whether this is something that i could keep doing um i realized that you kind of uh it was on the agenda that you wanted to wrap this up maybe uh during this entry meeting um i apologize for not having had more time to sort of go through more of the of the draft um but yeah so i i would have a few more prs along these lines uh in in my queue in the next few um yeah let's say next week or two if you want to wrap this up that would also be uh fine by me i i think getting the prs would be great um for myself i i guess um you know like for things like this are you okay kind of commenting incorporating the comments we have on that or do you want us once you make a pr to kind of drive it and merge it oh i can definitely uh sort of um accept your your comments and into my uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "pr that's totally fine by me um i just uh i wasn't sure how how much uh like authority i can assume myself i i you know suggest stuff i think that's great um ananias the editors will merge things um and you know make sure it's good but i think the changes the type of things you're doing are all good you know and as we point out you know like in this place we want to make sure that we keep the spirit of the api that it's saying like you know it's host name first but i think it's it's just wording details and making sure um we don't lose some of the nuance but please yeah continue to make the suggestions all right all right so i think we'll just wait for another iteration on this one but in general that looks good um there's the other issue here um i'm specifically talking about one paragraph where it talks about the racing um i think that was fine so i i made a pr of that change um so let's let's try to fix this one up and merge it in um the entire connection attempt which part is that i see yeah we use that terminology also in the next paragraph with still referring to leaving uh this is what i think made it a bit confusing uh which which terminology the entire connection"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "attempt or connection attempt so in the in the pr now it re the entire connection attempt refers to the entire process but connection attempt in the next paragraph refers to the to the leaf node so we may want to distinguish which which paragraph are we talking about so there it's the leaf node action but in the p or text it's the entire process so that's why i thought we should maybe call it the yeah connection establishment and then i saw philip also suggested [Music] a third alternative so i think which oh right and so which that notifies the application that the connection as a whole is ready to use um so yeah this is kind of similar to this second sentence here which is fine um we could also say i think we are referring to a connection establishment tree but um could we even just say when a single leaf node becomes ready to use the entire or the connection establishment tree is considered successful or something like that that would kind of lean into the terminology here that would be that would be fine the suggestions right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "yeah or it is is considered it's considered ready we're going to say like once once a single leaf node becomes ready to use then the entire connection establishment tree is considered ready i think that could work any objections to that uh philip what did you think is this okay i'm sick yep fine with me okay commit that okay great so let's let's merge this in get one out of the way all right and then that should close this issue all right and then we have uh we have a new one on section 4.1 so maybe i can explain real quick please please do i noticed that uh in the happy eyeballs uh sense racing protocol racing is basically basically means that uh near simultaneous connection establishment attempts um where you basically pick the connection that first exceeds but in in this case or in this draft racing is defined more loosely or broader where in section 4.3 it says that uh three different racing approaches uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "simultaneous staggered and failover um and this makes so coming from an epic high ball's perspective uh reading sex section 4.1 and 4.2 is a bit confusing before section 4.3 clears up the scope of term racing i see um here let i'm going to pull up if you don't mind i'm going to pull up the enters copies that we're all looking at the same text come on all right so we have this and let's see where do we talk about racing hmm and so i think the parts where is at what point does it imply early on that the other types of racing are not staggered races so in section so where it says um section 4.1.1.3 right there so um yes yeah it says uh implementation that support racing protocols and protocol options should maintain a history and so on um this information can influence further racing decisions to prioritize or prune uh branches um and from coming from a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "happy eyeball perspective it's sort of unclear what a racing decision is because the race is uh it's sort of understood in this in this metaphor of like a race among equals that all start at the same time and someone's someone is coming in first and they won the race um and only later is then this racing uh term uh cast more loosely or defined more loosely where we have the simultaneous staggered and failover kinds of racing and it's just a bit confusing that these we are obviously talking about uh racing when we do mean failover um before actually having introduced racing to also mean failover i would say we didn't define racing at all above there so right one one solution i could see would be just move the section on racing earlier exactly just like moving before structuring just move make it be 4.1 to define things but i guess just understand more clearly at what point do you think like for example 4.1.1.3 is talking about failover the section 4.1.1.3 doesn't but the section 4.1.12 does where it says attempts should be started on one path and then successively on other paths or interfaces after delays based on the expected path round to time and so on oh but i actually consider that to be um staggered just like normal happy eyeballs yeah so normal happy i don't this isn't equal normal happy eyeball isn't equal at all because usually you give it six a small head start yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "right normal happy eyeballs is staggered as it says all right so so this uh this section then implies a staggered staggered approach okay yeah but i i do think you know based on what you're saying that this is the most common maybe or something and refer back to the happy hour yeah [Music] yes exactly the ability to reshuffle the sections because it's really a deep concept it may happen right and in any way i think the racing kind of refers to the fact that whichever connection succeeds first wins and that is the case for all three of them it's a question of when they thought right that can be in three different ways right the reason why the reason why i think it doesn't really need much of a clarification is that i mean i looked at the draft and it somewhere points back at the architecture draft where we have a pretty clear definition of what this is it even says we refer to this process as raising borrowing terminology from happy eyeballs and dynamic then it explains how this could operate so i think the architecture draft solves our problem doesn't it yeah um although you know what i'm wondering so the reason for section 4 is structured the way it is is it kind of does things in order it says first you build your tree then you kind of gather the candidates for each layer then you race them like it's kind of the order of operations and then you complete the establishment so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "to that end it's nice to have them in this order and you're right that we do talk about section 4.2.2 of the architecture but what we don't have is in the section 4 a forward reference to the candidate gathering section the candidate raising section and the completed establishment so we should probably in this paragraph have more references to the rest of the document and maybe mention here that the kind of default style of racing is staggered just to get that in people's head right does that make sense from my perspective it was simply um i maybe took the racing metaphor too literally and sort of thought okay we start the race um more or less simultaneously and way too comes in first but from from this right like tabs perspective it's just a perspective on um at the at the finish line so to speak and whatever whichever comes in first has won the race and not actually talking about sort of starting in any fair way or something yes yes okay great so my yeah my suggestion is we fix this in essentially the introduction to section four and how we introduce all of this and i can take that if that works for everyone okay thank you that that is that is definitely useful um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "and then this one i'm going to be assigning to you all right other than that all of the issues are assigned to someone i think some of the older ones still need to be done um reece what would you like to do do we want to go through these issues some of which we've looked at before i i mean i i know you know we just need to do them um do we want to look at some of the other pull requests that are open yeah maybe let's look at uh pull requests yeah because we have we have a couple new ones overall here would be good all right let's let's look at this yeah so that one was brought up in the meeting this was me trying to address the comments from the meeting but i also agree with phil's point here some i i don't know if we should have it or not because it's it's protocol specific really yeah it's a dependency on the product it does it does so if we just dump this i i really don't mind i i was skeptical about having that in the first place just at the meeting i didn't see the issue and it was brought up as a request because some people wanted that for quick i mean maybe there's another way to do it more cleanly i don't know so i think the reason that people wanted it's interesting i i think the reason that people wanted it for quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "was because um like h3 has specific semantics about the meanings of particular stream ids and the one sctp multi-streaming article that i have experience with is ipfix which also has specific semantics for stream ids so like both of the users of these protocols actually do want in certain cases to be able to to say explicitly use this stream id um yeah so like so if we want to allow those protocols to be implemented with apps which i think we probably do or at least we don't want to specifically forbid it then we would need something like this um i i my comment here is a little bit cheeky um like i i'm basically saying look we have two examples of stream multi-streaming protocols they both use integer stream ids i could imagine like esoteric protocols um trying to use something other than an integer stream id but it would be like a chunk of bytes which you could just use an arbitrary length integer for it like we don't say what the length of the energy is in the api so the i think there are two objections to doing this one is we are assuming enter semantics for stream ids i'm kind of okay with that right um if if you want to build a protocol that breaks taps cool um spend six years in the itf process get it standardized um that would be an excellent joke um the other objection to it is that we're basically now have two ways to specify that you're multi-streaming and like one is our connections and the connection group thing and then we just sort of like poked the stream id through this and i'm i'm not sure what that means right like so what happens if i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "create a bunch of connections in a connection group the tap system figures out they're going to bunch them together into a multi-streaming connection and then i do a thing with a stream id like so if i've done a bunch of clones and stream id 7 is already taken and i see connection.clone stream id do i have like sort of a a a stochastic error generator i mean you could intelligently query the numbers before that you know or you could say that if you see if that occupies you could also say that if you specify a stream id for any cloned connection you must specify a stream id for all of them right because that's that's what you're going to do like if you're ever going to do it you're never the application will either say i care about stream ids and i'm going to allocate them myself or i don't actually care about the underlying transport at all give me something that works but it won't say both or if it doesn't yeah we find that application to fail that's why it's an optional barometer right but it's a weird optional parameter it's an optional parameter that if you use it once you must always use it and if you don't use it once you must never use it but it's not like that right you could use it once because you care about one particular stream number and you see that this is not occupying as you say i want to create that stream which has number three and for all the others i don't care but i think realistically if you're building an application which where the application protocol this stream id allocation that stream id allocation is complete right now you want to reach into the reach into the to the machinery of taps and say i'm telling you what stream ids you're using then congratulations it's now your responsibility to tell me the stream ideas i'm using well really i mean the cases i've heard of is that you have one particular stream you know you have a receiver expecting something on one particular stream number and that is the one you care about all the others you might not care about so but how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "how do we access this um stream number now uh is the other part of the same pr i mean you can set it here but there's also a way to query it that's i put that into the pr if you do a clone if you clone a connection with a stream id and it's not multi-streaming that's an error that's an establishment error right so basically if you're if you're in a situation where you actually care about the stream id as the application you're going to want to over constrain things so you're only ever going to select quicker sctp and we give you the ability to do that right i mean in the selection uh properties we can select on multi-streaming can we not we could at one point yay can yeah so you as an application can you can you can force yourself into this into this corner and i think there are valid reasons to be in it but this require is or this is just advice the selection things require multi-streaming and then every time you start a connection um which means so what we would need to do in this case is we'd also need initiate to take a stream id as well because you might need to say which stream oh man yeah so what about really doing this as let's say allowing for clone and for initiate to specify a list of protocols but specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "parameters yes where we really can and then you can explicitly say okay i got a ctp let's use sctv.stream id and have the screen rdf stp because uh i have no idea whether i prefix overweight will be defined but i'm not sure whether i fix over quick would have the same semantics for the stream ids as it um um srt fix over sctp has i agree it should be protocol dependent yeah i think having it as now we need a generalized mechanism for for handing protocol dependent parameters as a list to yeah to initiate and clone optionally right i mean you don't want to do that yep that's the right solution yeah so philip yeah what i was going to suggest is the exact same thing of you know we have a concept particularly in the architecture of yeah they're protocol specific properties and we just need to explicitly say that those can be passed in to initiate and that that's where because you may say for quick hey i just wanted unidirectional stream and you don't care what the numbers are like you know they're gonna be different flavors and obviously not every protocol has unidirectional support yeah i mean i can do that i did my pr yep discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "and that's that's more or less what our implementation does is that is that enough do we not need prior brian's proposal of the selection property that says i really want a multi-streaming protocol and so forth i already have it don't we [Music] don't we already have it to require multi streaming not sure we have prep we have a you need a selection property maybe i thought it was a selection property let me go look at the editor's copy multi-stream connections in group oh yeah yeah yeah yeah would prefer yeah right we have it yeah you can do it there's a preference you can also decide to oh yeah we have it okay and that's all that's needed i think we lost tommy [Music] the whole time and i was talking and i couldn't tell i was gone because i was sharing my screen i thought great you you're no longer sharing your screen and you disappeared for a while so yeah well all right um i think we have a good way forward here and that looks good so yes all right let me share the screen again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:08",
    "text": "okay good michael this is you that's so thrilled yes all right um [Music] got some non-negatives oh yeah i think this should be a no-brainer and the reason this is numeric instead of integers that timeouts can be floating point yeah so that's not a new decision i i was just adding non-negative because every pretty much everything is non-negative right and then there was a typo here and there but i think one typo i won't comment about something if it exists but it didn't have this or not available merge it do it yeah i think this is all right all right so then the only other one colin you had opened up a new thing about multicast should we go on and talk about that uh we can talk about that if you like can you all hear me yes we can okay good um so this is actually an old issue uh which has been open for quite a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "while about multicast and they made a pr to try and sketch out what uh a simple answer here um the the way multicast is currently done is that it's a little odd in that it uses the local end point to specify the multicast uh group in some cases um and it doesn't there didn't seem to be a way of specifying the local interface uh by which you which you're using to join that group um and it was a bit weird in that uh there wasn't any way of rendezvousing to say that you can have one connection that can both send and receive to the group um so i was trying to sketch out an alternative which looked a little more like the way multicast works with sockets where the the local interface uh so that the local end point was the local interface local address and port to which you bound and the remote was the multicast group and then you can listen on that um or send to that and they they do the obvious thing for a receive only or a send only multicast group which matches nicely with an ssm session uh or you could rendezvous on it and the idea was that would give you an asm group which you could both send to and you would be joined you would receive the packets and i thought that worked out okay until i tried to put in how we handle um source filtering uh and then we you run into sort of a bit of an odd case uh and that we don't really have enough addresses because uh um you you need the local address which you're bound to you need the address that people are sending from and you need the group address somewhere and we've only got local and remote addresses in the protocol um and so for the way it ended i ended up writing it was that if you initiate you end up with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "the the local endpoint of the connection representing your local interface and the remote endpoint representing the group and for when when you listen you end up with a connection group where the local is the multicast group and the remote is the address from which the packets are being received and then for a rendezvous you end up with a connection group where you've got one send only representing the connection you're sending on and then each of those you're you're receiving because you can have not you can be receiving from multiple sources generates a connection where the local is the group and the remote is the address where you're getting it from um so i'm not sure it works out any better than what was in there before but it's got a different set of problems at least um what's clearly not ready [Music] so one suggestion has one idea we have so many uh with specification for the remote and local endpoint why do we not explicitly are for ask for the remote endpoint having with multicast group and then adding the group id as an explicit parameter um to the remote object then we could be really safe that we can do both source filtering and um and group filtering yeah i mean i think that's probably the right solution is to have a you know because i mean you've got a third address now when there's a group and it's defined it's just to add that in explicitly um and that was a bigger change than i had time to make just before this meeting because you'll notice this pr was submitted about two minutes before the meeting started um but i think that's probably the right answer although it's a pretty big change to the way multicast works so essentially you're saying add"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "something like a remote specifier with with multicast addressing group with polycast which will take the address and the group like that um so i would just play with multicast group and the group and then you can you can add with address for the filtering oh i see i see what you mean so right so you just have this right so we just have like oh with ipv4 address yeah and then when you're well i mean you're going to get a connection group when you're receiving on an asm session anyway because you could have multi because packets can be coming from multiple places um how would how would we specify the group there uh to be able to to check the group or to accept the group um so i mean when you're creating as a when you're creating the connection i i would say you want you need to specify the local and you need to specify the remote as being i would think the multicast group and the import which you're sending that's not what's currently in the draft but when you're receiving you want the remote to be the sender of the packet and it's not clear whether you want the local to be the multicast group or the local to be the local interface to which you're bound to and then if you do that then how do you specify the group i would say with local address so with local interface you specify the interface and the remote you specify the group because it's it's the remote address from which or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "uh which somehow identifies the fashion it's it looks a little bit odd so when you're making a connection i think the remote wants to be the group but when you're receiving data from that group is the remote the group or is it the the ip address of the person sending to the group uh you can do both you can say remote with group remote with multicast group and it's the group you want uh to listen to and if you want to first restrict that you could also say with address and then the address of the person sending also for listening sure sure sure that that i think is clear um but let's say i'm joining an asm group um and i i specify in my pre-connection that my local is my wi-fi interface say on whatever port the remote is the multicast group and whatever port and i want packets from anyone sending to that group and i think we can specify that as a pre-connection easily what connections then get created when the packets arrive from that group is it a connection group with a new connection for each sender or is it a single connection that where i can receive datagrams from multiple places and if and how do i how do i figure out where these datagrams are coming from that's where it gets complicated and the the way i wrote it in this pr is it generates a connection group where there's one connection which i can use to send yeah which has my local address and the destination address being the group and then the ones i want to receive on the local address is the group and the remote address is the address of the person sending it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "yes i'm not sure that right but i couldn't find a better way afraid of doing it because we only have local remote addresses i think that works but it'd be good to have yeah well yes i mean this is also not updating the examples it'd be good to see you know what's the ramification on the examples of how we use it yeah exactly very concrete important to make sure the idea made sense before i went through and fleshed out all the examples because it's a pretty big change from what's in there now so i think the idea makes sense yeah and i think it's actually way like you know looking at the complexities it's way better than what's there now so yeah yeah it's it's a bit odd because since you end up with a connection group where some of the connections have your local address and some of the group has the local address but multicast is a bit odd anyway so well true yeah oh would you just say that um the multicast group is always a special thing and so you have the multicast group is a special thing on the remote no matter whatever you do and um so you get away with this kind of dualism well i think just having the multicast group as the remote is what's in there yeah well problem with that is you then don't know where the packet's coming from yeah you you have both flags on the remote side you have you have the multicast group as well as one attribute of the remote and you have the actual sender addresses as the address of the remote object"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "so you just have two flags of that yeah we need to find ways of querying that but yeah i think we should use the chance of having an extend extendable object like interface anyway because we are not forced to use any address field as the bsd socket ipi had to so we should use the chance to make it easy understandable i don't know i think i'm inclined to try and flesh out what i've got here a bit more with the examples and see how it works sounds good okay all right i'll try and do that thanks wonderful okay so that's our that's our prs for a second so so i think you know that we have we have some work to do on the implementation issues still but those are all assigned i'm happy to take us more of a stab at them after this and do that this week and we can just iterate on github and we also do sorry i i was just gonna confirm we also have some more comments uh in the queue from torben right and then we also had asked christian amzus for a review or he actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "volunteered to review at the last ietf meeting but i haven't seen his review yet but i pinged him i haven't gotten a reply yet so there is also one outstanding review coming there hopefully i think a few of the outstanding issues we had on the implementation were connected to your review brian and you did the review so i'm wondering if they are still open or if they just didn't get close let me see which issues are we talking about here yeah maybe let's look at the other issues for implementation that we have open sure yeah let me pull those up level 11 open up i think all the ones that i created have been handled now i think so yeah uh i'm not seeing any open ones with my name on them because there's some old ones in here that i have that i should just do there's one i had opened so the ones i was oh i have two assigned to me actually yeah those were the two things because i think they were new i think i did these that's what i was wondering i'll do that i'll do this on my review pass now did i actually do that or did i just completely forget"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "that's going to get our story protocol protocol stack um there's a lot of raw protocol right i want to say i did this i'm looking for the 745 748 767 768 there's definitely stuff that talks about protocol instance and protocol stack in here yeah like yeah section looks 742 i wonder if we go to the blame we can see like where did this come from so i think 767 addressed some of this but i didn't do the full crunch let me look and see what 745 did so i might need to do that pass again okay let's let's assume i need to do that pass privacy consideration section yeah okay did that so let me actually look at code"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "and i remember doing a privacy consideration section but that might have been for a different draft because this is still just called security consideration got it okay we do have a security and privacy considerations section in the architecture draft yes i'm not sure if maybe we just decided that all privacy considerations should oh we have also a privacy and security considerations uh section in the interface draft so maybe we decided that we wanted to put all of the privacy considerations into a different draft it's not the implementation draft in which case we should probably note that in this issue but yeah wait why don't you do another pass and so i'll i'll figure that out thanks i'm not going to do it right now so i just noticed okay do the pass all right um i mean what we could also do is okay if we don't have other things to talk about right now we could you know spend the other part of the hour we allocated going off and typing up the prs we have assigned to us it actually doesn't sound like a bad idea yeah but maybe we can just briefly talk to talk about sort of timelines for uh what we are about to do so we uh we are still waiting on comments and or reviews which might take a couple weeks uh i'm not sure maybe we want to do an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "interim meeting sometime in june however my june doesn't look so great for meetings but uh maybe in favor of a june interim but i could do another doodle if people like that yeah maybe with a shorter expiration this time and then yeah try to gather all comments by the next interval meeting and also also have people sort of resolve the outstanding issues on the implementation draft we cannot hear you aaron i think you can imagine you sawing i mean it doesn't look like your audio is uh it doesn't audio it's not turned on are we planning on asking for a slot in philadelphia no okay i mean we were talking about that earlier and if people still agree that we are probably meeting every other meeting or so depending on whether we have things to talk about so yeah i would make that explicit that we're not having a taps meeting in philadelphia as well okay we'll have an interview meeting in june to come and we still never are sending issues okay anything and that's maybe oh gory made it just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "now he was having trouble joining but uh am i the only one who threw the data tracker like five times to get it to authorize it was very strange okay and like i i restarted chrome and everything which you know with as many tabs as i have open is kind of a traumatic experience i'll need to work more or less straight but everything took about three minutes of waiting oh it's good to see your window cory oh yeah yeah um i don't know i think i was logged in at home because i came home when it worked i couldn't log into the data tracker at all at work okay weird unless can i only log in once did i have to actually force myself to go i don't think it's like netflix i don't think that there's like you know you have to you have to pay the meeting fee three times if you want to be able to log into the data tracker from multiple devices whatever anyway sorry here i am yes meetings over gory sorry yeah we're just about to wrap up for uh for the meeting today so are we ready to publish all these things then though we still have some you're waiting for more reviews i mean like so i would like to to note that it's been like we've done a little touching of the of the architecture draft but it was like a very minor touch this time around that is um that still seems stable so that makes me happy yeah and i think we do also have some outstanding issues on the api draft which we should also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "get to at some point do we have anything not assigned oh yeah there is one issue by tom actually that is not a sign really yeah can you guys hear me now yes well 2012 i i volunteer awesome oh yes this is on the api draft yeah okay thank you i assigned you oh yes i just have a scientist all right going once going twice everybody gets an hour to go right pr yes please hi back daniel bye everybody you"
  }
]
